The Propaganda Department of the ruling Communist Party had ordered a gag on all debate on the thoughts of Gu, an independent thinker who angered Beijing before his death during the Cultural Revolution.
Gu openly opposed totalitarianism and supported the rule of law and civil rights.
The fifth edition of the magazine was published in September under the watchful eyes of censors, the sources said.
"We will still be able to publish the sixth edition. After that we don't know," a magazine editor, who asked not to be named, said in an interview.
"They did not say what exactly the problem was with the magazine," said the editor who suggested that politics could be the cause.
The axe has fallen on other publications, authors and filmmakers.
In August, the Press and Publications Administration suspended publication of the Economic Work Monthly, based in the southwestern province of Guizhou.
The suspension followed the magazine's publication of an article critical of a privately circulated tract known as the "10,000-word essay" that urges a return to class struggle and warns of the erosion of the state sector by private enterprise.
In September, Cui Enqing was sacked as president of the Beijing Youth Daily after the Chinese capital's most outspoken newspaper reported a poisoning case that caused a plunge in sales of a state-owned beverage manufacturer.
Propaganda tsars also have banned all of the novels and two films of controversial writer Wang Shuo.
The campaign to enforce ideological orthodoxy has left Chinese filmmakers at a loss as to what kind of movies would receive the blessings of propaganda tsars. The number of movies made this year has fallen sharply compared with previous years.
Wheat is unlikely to become a casualty of the row between Beijing and Washington over U.S. arms sales to Taiwan since higher grain production in China is slashing the need for imports, traders said on Tuesday.
"As far as we see business, we could well not have anything with China for the rest of this year," a U.S. trader said.
"The (Chinese) domestic crop looks good, they have cancelled a lot of orders already. Canada has enough to hold China if they do need to get into the market," she said.
China's 1996/97 wheat production was expected to hit a record 107 million tonnes, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said ealier this month, raising its estimate from 104 million tonnes.
As a result, total imports were also revised downward by one million tonnes to eight million tonnes.
A new war of words broke out between Beijing and Washington this month after the Pentagon said Taiwan wanted to buy missiles and other weaponry worth around US$420 million.
Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a renegade province since Nationalists fled there after losing the civil war in 1949. It opposes the sale of weapons to the island.  
China has demanded the United States cancel plans for these latest arms sales to prevent "new damage" to bilateral ties.
Sino-U.S. ties have see-sawed in recent years over disputes ranging from human rights abuses and widespread copyright piracy in China to alleged nuclear proliferation by Beijing.
Ties had been slowly recovering after reaching a nadir in June 1995 with a U.S. visit by Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui.
China had cancelled around 1.4 million tonnes of wheat orders from the United States since early June, the USDA said.
While some trading sources have speculated that the cancellations could be in retaliation for stalled bilateral negotiations over a fungus called tilletia controversa kuhn, or TCK smut, others put them down to the good Chinese crop outlook.
China is expected, however, to maintain its traditonal level of wheat imports from Canada of around five million tonnes a year. Canadian trade sources have said China's buying programme has already begun.
None of this has deterred U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman from his optimism that China will remain a committed buyer of U.S. wheat.
"I think the key issue myself with China is supplies in China," Glickman said in Chicago on Monday.  
"The Chinese have pulled their grain purchases to some degree, but I do not perceive that we will see China out of the U.S. market. I think they will be in the market, but I can't tell you for how much," he said after a fund-raising meeting of the Congressional Hunger Center.
The United States was not the "preferred" supplier of wheat to China, he said, and the two countries had issues to resolve. He expressed concern that problems such as TCK smut could be used as trade barriers.
China does not accept wheat from the U.S. Pacific northwest because it cannot be guaranteed to be free of the fungus, which it fears could spread through its own wheat crop and cut yields.
Washington claims officially that TCK is harmless, though quarantine officials have said privately that it can indeed cut yields and that treatments are ineffective.
China imported 11.59 million tonnes of wheat in 1995, up 58.7 percent from the 7.3 million tonnes the year before.
U.S. wheat accounted for 3.8 million tonnes of the 1995 total, U.S. figures show.
Moving to capitalize on enormous growth in the use of laser departmental printers, Hewlett-Packard Co. on Monday will launch a new genre of printers it calls the "mopier," to steal work from the copy machine.
The new device, dubbed the HP LaserJet 5Si Mopier, reduces the need to use copiers by allowing workers to make multiple original prints -- or "mopies" -- from their own desktop.
HP, which is already a market leader in printers, faxsimile machines and scanners, hopes the new model will help it capture a share of the $18.5 billion a year copier market.
Analysts expect the printers will present a challenge to copy machine giant Xerox Corp. and other copier makers, as sales revenues of midrange, 20-30 pages per minute copiers is projected to drop by $300 million to $1 billion by 2000.
"Xerox is a dominant copier and printer vendor. This is a challenge and an opportunity for Xerox," said Robert Fennell, industry analyst at the market research firm Dataquest.
The market for midrange printers based on Canon Inc.'s 24-page per minute engine, until recently a relatively small segment of the market, is projected to surge by some 500 percent this year from 1995, he said.
With a U.S. list price of $9,549, the machine is more expensive than other departmental laser printers, but it contains more features and it is priced less than midrange copiers costing between $13,000 and $20,000.
Executives at Hewlett-Packard's LaserJet Solutions Group in Boise, Idaho, said the Mopier is part of its recently-unveiled Digital Workplace strategy aimed at addressing work flow and document management problems at work.
"Our customer research found that people are already mopying today," one of the executives said in an interview.
The new machine is based on HP's existing LaserJet 5Si models, but adds finishing tasks -- such as stapling and collating of documents.
A user-friendly interface to help guide technologically-challenged workers through the printing options and tells them when their job is completed.
The Mopier is designed to cut down on the time office workers spend running between printers and copy machines, waiting for others to copy, and fixing paper jams.
It contains a 420 megabyte hard drive and reduces network traffic as well by storing each print task once and printing the number of copies specified, rather than requiring each print job to be sent down the network one at a time.
Copies can be stored in mailbox bins until picked up.
The initial Mopier model may pave the way for a whole family in the future, if it lives up to its expectations.
The introduction is timed to take advantage of a major shift towards network printing -- International Data Corp. reported the number of pages printed on printers in 1995 for the first year exceeded those printed of photocopy machines.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto unveiled plans Monday for a five-year "Big Bang" to liberalise Japan's financial markets and catch up with reforms carried out more than a decade ago in Europe and North America.
Finance Minister Hiroshi Mitsuzuka told reporters the three main pillars of the reforms would be to make markets "free, fair and global" by the year 2001.
The moves would end fixed commissions for stockbrokers, increase the release of financial information and allow banks, securities houses and insurance companies to enter each others' now-protected areas.
"This is going to be Tokyo's 'Big Bang,'" Mitsuzuka said, referring to British financial reforms in 1986, which removed a myriad of barriers in the financial industry.
Analysts welcomed the move to sweep away rules that date back to the end of World War II, saying that Japan must reform in order to stop its slide as a world financial centre.
"Japanese banks and securities houses are left behind U.S. institutions in financial expertise and innovation," said Ken Okamura, strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson (Asia) Ltd.
Tight regulation in Japan's financial markets has only pushed lucrative business offshore to less regulated markets, he said.
Hashimoto formed a new Cabinet Thursday made up solely of Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) lawmakers, the first time the conservative, pro-business party has ruled on its own since being booted out of power in 1993.
Some pundits have wondered how serious Hashimoto and the LDP are about drastic deregulation, although others say the politically astute prime minister is well aware of the need to open Japanese markets to competition to ensure the economy flourishes in the 21st century.
"This is a very good objective, but getting there is going to be extremely difficult," said Brian Waterhouse, a James Capel Pacific analyst.
The securities industry is expected to be the hardest hit by the changes, and the nation's big banks are expected to face some bloodletting as well.
The reforms would bring Tokyo into line with rival centres in Europe and the United States, where liberalisation began in the 1960s and culminated in London's "Big Bang."
"We think this is the last opportunity to revitalise Tokyo's financial markets," a Finance Ministry official told reporters.
Here are the main points of the financial reform plansL:
To create freer markets:
-- Banks, securities houses and insurance companies should be allowed to enter each others' business areas.
-- Banks and other financial institutions should be allowed to deal in more products in a bid to meet investors' wide range of needs.
-- Japan will look into the liberalisation of financial market commission fees.
-- Participation in foreign exchange transactions, currently limited to banks authorised by the government, should be liberalised.
-- Considering the effective use of individual savings, which now total 1,200 trillion yen ($10.81 trillion).
To create fairer markets:
-- Financial institutions should be required to make satisfactory disclosure of information to investors and depositors and clarify relevant rules to make market participants responsible for their investment.
-- Market participants will be more severely punished if they violate the rules regarding their involvement in the markets.
To createe more internationalized markets:
-- Investment in financial derivatives -- securities derived from simpler financial instruments -- should be promoted in Japan by revising Japan's accounting system and relevant laws to meet global standards.
-- A supervisory system on a global scale should be established. The Group of Seven (G7) industrialised nations is working on setting up up such a system. ($1=111 yen)
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, fresh from its demerger from Hanson Plc in October, said on Monday it was capable of cutting back debt levels and investing in further export growth as a dual policy.
Gareth Davis, chief executive, told Reuters in an interview that the two could be achieved "in parallel" because of the group's strong cash generation.
In particular, Davis said Imperial was in talks with a Japanese company about entering the Japanese market for the first time. He also said the group would keep open the option of a share buyback in the future.
Imperial inherited around 1.1 billion pounds ($1.8 billion) of debt as its legacy from the Hanson family break-up. But Davis said this did not hamper the group's plans to seek distribution deals or joint ventures in the overseas cigarette markets and possibly examine small acquisition deals in the fragmented cigar market.
He added that, if an important larger-sized acquisition opportunity arose, he would be prepared to raise debt levels, but for the moment "the priority is to get it down. Our situation, our ability to generate cash means we can do things in parallel - pay down debt and pay for acquisitions...Bolt-on acquisitions are more likely in the cigar area", he added.
On the Japanese market in particular, Davis told Reuters "We are looking to do something in Japan. We are actively considering this. In one way or another we will establish a presence in that market," admitting that talks were under way with one party.
But he sought to reassure shareholders that Imperial would not squander its sound financial inheritance in its bid to catch up in the overseas field. "In our international expansion plans I would not dream of being a balance sheet wrecker," he said. If Imperial failed to find the right deals, it would be prepared to conside other options to return value, he said.
If a possible acquisition fails to offer sufficient rates of return "we would say: what would a share buyback do to enhance shareholder value, rather than a potential acquisition?"
"A buyback is something we'd never rule out. Given our cash flow characteristics people tend to say "What are you going to do with all that cash.'"
Imperial reports its first set of results since the Hanson demerger on December 5 when it will give a trading update of the first few months since its split.
Davis said he expected the British market to continue to decline at around two percent next year.
But the international business, accounting for 17 percent of profits in the first eight months of the year, is expected to show continued rapid growth.
"I would be very disappointed if it wasn't 25 percent by 2000." The last two years have seen overseas sales double, but Davis drew the line at hitting his target by 1997.
"That would be overstating it (our confidence). But the signs are the business is showing strong growth."
Despite his caution, Davis has said that the company has already clinched a deal with unions to add a third shift from May 1997 which has the potential to raise capacity at its Nottingham factory  by one third.
Imperial says if a number of overseas deals start feeding through it will be ready to meet the surge in demand.
The third shift could, in theory, raise Imperial's total cigarette production to 53 billion from the existing 37 billion mark. ($1=.6069 Pound)
China said Monday it expected talks with the United States soon on a dispute over U.S. sanctions on its textiles and its own threat to retaliate.
Beijing also said it was still too soon to say which U.S. imports would be banned if Washington failed to withdraw penalties on imported Chinese textiles.
"We expect to see working level talks with the U.S. in the near future," an official of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation told Reuters. "The two sides will exchange views," he said.
Beijing said Sunday it would suspend temporarily its imports of some U.S. textiles, farm goods, animal husbandry products, fruits and alcoholic drinks in retaliation for Washington's imposition of punitive charges on American purchases of Chinese textiles.
The temporary import ban is to take effect on Dec. 10.
In September, Washington announced punitive charges against import quotas for Chinese textile goods, accusing China of using shipments through other countries to avoid U.S. quota restrictions.
China said the action was taken without consultation and with no clear supporting evidence, adding that it had no choice but to impose retaliatory sanctions.
"We are still seeking the views of Chinese enterprises about which products should be included under the ban," the Chinese official said. "That will be determined in another 30 days."
The total of trade affected by Washington's action was estimated at $19 million -- only a fraction of Sino-U.S. trade, which is now heavily in China's favour. The United States says its trade deficit with China last year was more than $35 billion.
China's threatened trade ban, made ahead of a planned visit to Beijing this month by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, meant yet another face-off in the frequently testy Sino-U.S. ties.
Relations have been strained over the last year by a range of issues, from Taiwan to arms proliferation to trade and human rights.
China and the United States have said they saw an improvement in relations since they narrowly averted a trade war over copyright piracy and exchanged diplomatic fire over Beijing's political rival Taiwan earlier this year.
The two sides are preparing for high-level exchanges next year, including a possible visit to China by Vice President Al Gore and a summit between Chinese President Jiang Zemin and President Clinton.
Christopher's visit was expected to pave the way for these meetings.
International Business Machines Corp will provide an update on its strategy for electronic commerce on Tuesday and will also unveil new partners and show examples of projects already in the works.
Electronic commerce is a now widely-used buzz word in the computer industry that refers to buying and selling goods and services or conducting transactions over computer networks.
For IBM, the world's largest computer maker, electronic commerce is a potentially huge opportunity to provide products and services to help its customers do business online.  
An IBM spokesman declined to provide any details on what IBM would be discussing, except to say IBM will provide an update on where it is now and where it is going in electronic commerce.
Top executives from IBM's Lotus Development Corp unit, its Internet division and its just-announced Network Computer unit will be hosting a press conference.
Analysts said IBM plans to announce several new partners for various applications it has developed, targeted at specific industries, such as an automotive company that is co-developing an auto-loan application on the Internet.  
IBM will also unveil and demonstrate an application targeted to the petroleum industry, a Web site called PetroConnect, that will let energy companies share geographical information over the Internet, to aid in their oil exploration searches.
The computer giant is also expected to add 10 new retailers to its World Mall, its online shopping site on the Internet.
IBM will also officially roll out its Network Computer division and possibly some new models of the Network Station, its first network computer, aimed at a specific industries.  
Earlier on Monday, IBM announced that it had formed a unit to focus all its development and marketing efforts in the embryonic market for these scaled-down computer devices.
Analysts said that, while electronic commerce represents a big opportunity for IBM and the rest of the computer industry, the market is still so young that it is hard to estimate what revenues will be, where they will come from and how long it will take for these ventures to be profitable.
"I think IBM is very well poised to make money from all of these things, but it will be a year or two before anything happens," said Stan Dolberg, a Forrester Research analyst.  
"The Internet commerce offerings, whether they are services or products, have to be really focused on a specific industry to be complete," Dolberg added.
Indeed, IBM is developing many industry-specific services, such as its petroleum industry Web service, and the automotive industry application. IBM will also announce a partnership with Charles Schwab Corp, the discount brokerage firm that has already been very active in developing online brokerage and trading services. But it is not yet clear whether or not IBM will make much money from services and transactions, of which it will get a piece.  
For example, in its World Avenue consumer retailing site on the Internet, IBM receives a start-up fee from its vendors and it gets a five percent commission from its retailing partners on sales and a monthly maintentance charge.
"What they are trying to do is build a recurring revenue stream," said John Jones of Salomon Brothers. "They are trying to get into as many aspects of network computing as they can."
Some analysts said that, of all IBM's electronic commerce ventures, the World Avenue site is the least likely to succeed, because it does not add a great deal of value, other than the convenience of not leaving your home to shop.
"Malls on the Internet are not what people want," said Forrester's Dolberg. "If they want a mall, they want products grouped together by categories, say like shoes, so they can comparison shop...The Internet itself is like a whole mall, where a lot of different things are already grouped together."
Other recent Internet shopping mall efforts have failed, such as MCI Communications Corp's MCI Marketplace.
IBM is hoping its technology such as Net.Commerce and Net.Commerce Payment software, will provide an easy-to-use and secure way of conducting credit card transactions and help end consumer fears about using credit cards over the Internet.
The newly appointed chief executive officer of Meredith Corp said Monday that the company was beginning to see prices for television stations peak and come down.
That could lead to Meredith making an acqusiiton sometime in 1997, said William Kerr, who is currently president and chief operating officer of the media company.
"We are hopeful that certainly in the course of the next calendar year that we would see some action," said Kerr, who will become chief executive January 1.  
In the next few years, Meredith, which owns seven television stations could acquire about five more, he said in an interview.
"I think it may be easier in calendar 1997 than in calendar 1996 to make an attractive acquisition," he said, describing attractive as a VHF network affiliate in the 10th to 40th largest U.S. markets. "We'd like a larger market, but we think it's unlikely one will become available," he said.
The Des Moines, Iowa-based company also publishes magazines including Better Homes and Gardens and Ladies' Home Journal.  
He said Meredith will not seek publishing acqusitions, he said. Instead, the company plans to launch new titles, including Family Money magazine, which is expected to be launched in the first half of 1997.
Due to consolidation in the magazine business in the 1980s and early 1990s, "we do not think there are many acquisitions" to be made on the publishing side, he said.
Kerr said he did not see another major magazine launch by the time the company's fiscal year ends next June, but said one could be launched later in the calendar year.  
He would not say what the next title would be, but said it would be compatable with the publisher's family focus.
Publishing currently makes up about 54 percent of Merideth's earnings, broadcasting about 43 percent, with the rest coming from licensing, Kerr said.
The company currently has two licensing agreements with Wal-Mart Stores Inc, and Kerr said other agreements are possible, both with Wal-Mart and other companies.
But he also said a new deal is not likely to happen for 12 to 18 months.
"I think it is unlikely that we would have a major new deal to announce in this fiscal year," Kerr said.
On Monday, Meredith said its board of directors appointed Kerr chief exectuive officer. He had been president and chief operating officer. Kerr, 55, will replace Jack Rehm January 1, though Rehm will remain chairman until December 31, 1997, when he plans to retire, Kerr said.
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
British property company Greycoat is unlikely to crumble under pressure from rebel shareholders who want it broken up or succumb to a merger approach from smaller rival Moorfield Estates, analysts said on Monday.
"I don't think they are on the critical list in any sense or meaning of the word," one analyst said.
A proposal to sell-off Greycoat's assets is due to be put to shareholders at a special meeting on Thursday. It has been put forward by the UK Active Value Fund, which is advised by rebel shareholder Brian Myerson's Active Value Advisers.
UK Active Value Fund bought its 11 percent stake in Greycoat three years ago, rescuing it from receivership. But Myerson's relationship with the firm's management has not run smoothly.
The South African financier's challenge to the Greycoat management has also triggered a proposal by Moorfield Estates involving a share exchange offer for the larger Greycoat, which has so far dismissed the approach.
Moorfield said in a statement on Monday that it had "developed a proposal to add value for all shareholders through a strategy of more active management of the assets of Greycoat".
It said this had been presented to some of Greycoat's larger shareholders, accounting for close to 40 percent of the shares, and an approach had then been made to Greycoat's chairman.
They include merging the two companies by a share exchange and restructuring the assets of the enlarged group.
This would involve a Central London portfolio made up initially of Greycoat's main assets, Embankment Place and 123 Buckingham Palace Road, which would later be demerged.
Moorfield also intends setting up a portfolio of "investment and development property earmarked for immediate disposal to a major property company".
The remainder of the enlarged group would constitute "an investment, trading and development portfolio" and there would be a reorganisation of the management structure to reduce costs by "at least 1.5 million pounds ($2.47 million) per annum", Moorfield said.
While analysts agreed the Moorfield plan was unlikely to succeed, some said there was an opportunity for Greycoat to take over another company with higher profitability so the combined company could capitalise on Greycoat's favourable tax position.
"But they are not going to be flushed out by Thursday," a second property analyst told Reuters, adding that three or four companies had looked "very seriously" at the possibility of joining with Greycoat.
Another possibility would be a larger group such as British Land sweeping up Greycoat, although such an outcome seems remote in the short-term, analysts said.
Myerson's proposed sale of Greycoat's London property assets is seen by some as an unwise "forced sale" which would not achieve shareholder value in what is an improving market.
"Generally speaking a forced sale of their assets would not gain anything in the short term," the first analyst said, adding that with rental growth starting to show through, it made sense to hold onto Greycoat's two largest properties.
"They are vulnerable to any change in market conditions, but it would be a mistake to be forced into a corner and to sell something in a relatively short timescale. It would be totally counterproductive," he added.
But others said the time was right to sell off Greycoat's largest assets. "This is exactly the right time of the cycle (to sell," the second analyst said.
Greycoat shares closed 6.5 pence higher at 155.5 pence while Moorfield shares were unchanged at 30.5 pence. ($1=.6069 Pound)
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, fresh from its demerger from Hanson Plc in October, said on Monday it was capable of cutting back debt levels and investing in further export growth as a dual policy.
Gareth Davis, chief executive, told Reuters in an interview that the two could be achieved "in parallel" because of the group's strong cash generation. In particular, Davis revealed Imperial was in talks with a Japanese company about entering the market for the first time. He also said the group would keep open the option of a share buyback in the future.  
Imperial inherited around 1.1 billion stg of debt as its legacy from the Hanson family break-up. But Davis said this did not hamper the group's plans to seek distribution deals or joint ventures in the overseas cigarette markets and possibly examine small acquisition deals in the fragmented cigar market.
He added that if an important larger-sized acquisition opportunity came up he would be prepared to raise debt levels, but for the moment "the priority is to get it down. Our situation, our ability to generate cash means we can do things in parallel - pay down debt and pay for acquisitions...Bolt-on acquisitions are more likely in the cigar area," he added.  
On the Japanese market in particular, Davis told Reuters "We are looking to do something in Japan. We are actively considering this. In one way or another we will establish a presence in that market," admitting that talks were underway with one party.
But he sought to reassure shareholders that Imperial would not squander its sound financial inheritance in its bid to catch up in the overseas field. "In our international expansion plans I would not dream of being a balance sheet wrecker," he said. If Imperial failed to find the right deals, it would be prepared to conside other options to return value, he said.  
If a possible acquisition fails to offer sufficient rates of return "we would say: what would a share buyback do to enhance shareholder value, rather than a potential acquisition?"
"A buyback is something we'd never rule out. Given our cash flow characteristics people tend to say "What are you going to do with all that cash.'"
Imperial reports its first set of results since the Hanson demerger on December 5 when it will give a trading update of the first few months since its split.
Davis said he expected the UK market to continue to decline at around 2 percent next year.  
But the international business, accounting for 17 percent of profits in the first eight months of the year, s expected to show continued rapid growth.
"I would be very disappointed if it wasn't 25 percent by 2,000." The last two years have seen overseas sales double, but Davis drew the line at hitting his target by 1997.
"That would be overstating it (our confidence). But the signs are the business is showing strong growth."
Despite his caution, Davis has said that the company has already clinched a deal with unions to add a third shift from May 1997 which has the potential to raise capacity at its Nottingham factory  by one third.
Imperial says if a number of overseas deals start feeding through it will be ready to meet the surge in demand.
The third shift could, in theory, raise Imperial's total cigarette production to 53 billion from the existing 37 billion mark.
--London newsroom +44 171 5427717
Elections to the new Czech Senate over the next two weekends will only thicken the country's political fog, but an indecisive electorate has already been priced into the financial markets, analysts said on Monday.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus has been stuck in an uneasy political co-habitation since his centre-right coalition fell two seats short of a majority in the lower house on a strong second place showing by the Social Democrats in June.
Analysts say the Senate elections should not signal any clear shift in the political winds, and the markets will be stuck wondering if the three-party conservative government can hang on for its four-year term which runs through the year 2000.
They say only an unexpected clear victory for the opposition Social Democrats over Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS) would hurt the Czech crown or capital markets.
"The markets will definitely turn down (on a Social Democrat victory), same as in the (lower house) elections," said Vladimir Jaros, research director at Prague investment house Wood &amp; Co.
But he added that market expectations "are for ODS to win".
Klaus and his team of economists and technocrats became standard-bearers for post-Communist reforms after taking power in 1992 with a 12-seat majority in the lower house.
The markets, pollsters and pundits were caught off guard when the Social Democrats -- who have been ambivalent to balanced budgets and privatisations -- did so well.
The crown fell a full percentage point on the June results, and the stock market lost more than four percent of its value before stabilising when a minority government was confirmed.
"I think investors (this time) have already included in their behaviour expectations of inconclusive results," said Zdenek Bakala, chairman of Prague-based Patria Finance.
ODS and the Social Democrats are running close in recent opinion polls at around 25 percent support each, after ODS won the June vote with 29.6 percent, with CSSD at 26.4 percent.
But since the Senate vote is a first-past-the-post poll in individual constituencies, forecasting victory is difficult when gauged only by available party preference surveys.
Local analysts see Klaus's ODS and its two coalition allies winning a majority of the Senate's 81 seats, but they do not expect a result giving the coalition or opposition a clear advantage to push for an early election in the lower house.
"I don't think we are going to be facing a risk of extraordinary (lower house) elections, and I doubt that ODS will be willing to take that risk," Jaros said.
The two-round Senate polls, beginning on Friday with runoffs the next weekend, are not likely alter the course of the country's legislative agenda.
The stock market and the Czech crown have had diverging fates since the June vote, for reasons beyond election fears.
The crown has remained strong, despite a growing trade gap, consistently trading in a tight range between 2.5 to 3.0 percent above the central bank's mark/dollar basket.
The crown got a boost in October when four Social Democrats crossed over to vote with the government in approving the first draft of the 1997 budget.
Meanwhile, the Prague Stock Exchange (PSE) has been rocked, not by the political situation, but by discontent from foreign investors unhappy with the country's opaque trading environment.
The PSE's official PX50 index has been on a steady slide since late summer, dipping below 500 last week, heading toward its historic record low of 387.
Few think the Senate elections will serve to revive the securities markets, as market reform is not a high priority.
The Colombian government this week may sidestep congressional stalling and use special powers to force through stiffer anti-drug laws, Justice Minister Carlos Medellin said.
In comments to local media over the weekend, he also called for the draft laws -- which include confiscating drug barons' ill-gotten gains -- to be retroactive, applying to traffickers already jailed.
The retroactivity issue has sparked controversy in parallel moves to end Colombia's constitutional ban on extradition, currently under debate in the senate.
Former justice minister Enrique Parejo believes lawmakers may welcome the decree since it would remove them from the line of fire in any violent backlash by drug traffickers.
"If we don't do something soon then it could be too late. If congress does not make headway on the confiscation (of drug traffickers' property) then I will be looking for the faculty to introduce the legal measures," Medellin told the conservative El Nuevo Siglo newspaper.
President Ernesto Samper submitted the tougher anti-drug proposals to congress in July with a firm eye on winning back U.S. certification as an ally in the drugs war, which was withdrawn in March. He has sent repeated requests to legislators to speed up debate, but sessions continue to be dogged by lengthy political wrangling and poor attendance, which has left committees without a quorum.
If the congress fails to pass the measures, the government is expected to announce a decision by Thursday to introduce the new anti-drug laws by decree. But political and legal analysts say the move could raise constitutional issues about whether the government has the right to override congress.
"The government wants to legislate by decree because it fears decertification by the United States again next year, which could spark a fresh crisis which it may not recover from," Parejo said in a telephone interview.
"It may be a relief to many congressmen who have links with drug traffickers because there are real signs that the cartels are once again preparing to unleash a new war."
In the 1980s and early 1990s, the late Pablo Escobar, head of the once-mighty Medellin drug cartel, waged a war of bombings, assassinations and kidnaps against the state in a successful bid to get extradition banned.
The specter of a similar terror campaign is again looming after a series of bombings in recents weeks, including one defused by police which had been planted by the so-called Movement for National Sovereignty in the centre of Cali.
Federal Express Corporation (Fedex) is planning to utilise another former U.S. military base in the Philippines, Fedex and Philippine officials told Reuters.
Senior officials from Fedex, which has its main Asian hub at the former U.S. naval base at Subic Bay, have made detailed visits to the former Clark U.S. air force base, which is trying to attract traffic to its special economic zone.
Operations Vice President at Clark International Airport Corporation, Tereso Isleta, said Fedex is expected to become the airport's first cargo operator next month with the first flight of breeding cattle from Australia.
"We have been very happy to show senior Fedex officials around and we have been to their main hub in Memphis to see how they work. The first flight of cattle from Australia is expected in the next few weeks. It is very important for us to see Fedex coming here and hopefully Clark will become a hub too and attract many more airlines," Isleta told Reuters in a telephone interview from Clark, north of Manila.
Asia Pacific public relations manager for Fedex, David Clarke, said the former base could be used as an alternative to Subic in case of bad weather and for charter traffic.
He emphasised his company's commitment to Subic Bay where Fedex recently completed the first anniversary of operations as its Asian hub.
Better known for its overnight express freight business, Fedex says the transport of live breeding cattle from Sydney, Australia would be flown into Clark aboard a Fedex McDonnell Douglas MD-11 specially adapted as an animal transport.
"It's a branch of our general operations. Charter has always played a role for us. Transporting cattle is a specialised business but we're also used to handling thoroughbred horses in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and the Middle East and we hope more business of this type will come our way," Clarke said.
Clark International Airport Corporation is funded by the Philippines government's Bases Conversion Development Authority, which helped establish the Clark Special Economic Zone, following the withdrawal of U.S. forces. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
China said on Monday it expected talks with the United States soon on a dispute over U.S. sanctions on its textiles and its own threat to retaliate.
Beijing also said it was still too soon to say which U.S. imports would be banned if Washington failed to withdraw penalties on imported Chinese textiles.
"We expect to see working level talks with the U.S. in the near future," an official of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation told Reuters.
"The two sides will exchange views," he said.
Beijing said on Sunday it would suspend temporarily its imports of some U.S. textiles, farm goods, animal husbandry products, fruits and alcoholic drinks in retaliation for Washington's imposition of punitive charges on American purchases of Chinese textiles.
The temporary import ban would take effect on December 10.
In September, Washington announced punitive charges against import quotas for Chinese textile goods, accusing China of using transshipments to avoid U.S. quota restrictions.
China said the action was taken without consultation and with no clear supporting evidence, adding it had no choice but to impose retaliatory sanctions.
"We are still seeking the views of Chinese enteprises about which products should be included under the ban," the Chinese official said.
"That will be determined in another 30 days."
The total of trade affected by Washington's action was estimated at $19 million -- only a fraction of Sino-U.S. trade, which is now heavily in China's favour. The United States says its trade deficit with China last year was more than $35 billion.
But China's threatened trade ban, made ahead of a planned visit to Beijing this month by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, meant yet another face-off in the frequently testy Sino-U.S. ties.
Relations have been strained over the last year by a range of issues from Taiwan to arms proliferation to trade and human rights.
China and the United States have said they saw an improvement in relations since they narrowly averted a trade war over copyright piracy and exchanged diplomatic fire over Beijing's political rival Taiwan earlier this year.
The two sides are preparing for high level exchanges next year, including a possible visit to China by U.S. Vice President Al Gore and a summit between Chinese President Jiang Zemin and U.S. President Bill Clinton.
Christopher's visit was expected to pave the way for these meetings.
Canadian and Australian sales of malting barley to China could be limited by weather woes and disease concerns, which are cutting the amount of quality grain available for export this year, industry sources said on Monday.
Canada was hit by early snow that damaged the barley crop and would keep sales to China of the higher quality malting variety below 300,000 tonnes, a Canadian marketing source said.
Canada had already sold close to 300,000 tonnes of malting barley to China in the current marketing year (August-July), he told Reuters.
"We won't do more than 300,000 tonnes (to China)," he said. "We will be lucky if we hit 300,000. It's a very tight market."
That tightness could work to Australia's advantage, but farmers there had shown a preference this year for disease-resistant strains of feed barley, Barry Marshall, deputy general manager of the Australian Barley Board (ABB), said.
Frost in Victoria and South Australia could cut the board's availability of malting barley by 100,000 tonnes from earlier expectations of 920,000 from the two southern states, Marshall said by telephone from his Adelaide office.
The ABB, which markets Victorian and South Australian barley, could thus have 400,000 tonnes of malting barley to sell domestically and the same again for export.
"We would hope 300,000 to 350,000 tonnes will go to China," Marshall said.
Official Chinese figures show total barley imports from January to September 1996 were 959,138 tonnes, and 37,267 tonnes in September alone. No comparative figures were available.
Australia's total crop would be in the range of 6.03 million tonnes, Marshall said, up from last year's 5.5 million and possibly the best ever.
The harvest should begin in about 10 days, he said, and exports could start moving in early December.
Canada's shipments of two-row malting barley to China last marketing year were around 400,000 tonnes, selling at around US$240 a tonne, the marketing source in Hong Kong said.
He said Canadian wheat began the marketing year to China at around $230 a tonne C&amp;F China, after the Canadian Wheat Board (CWB) and China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import/Export Corp (COFCO) agreed on the price.
"The CWB is trying to compete because the Australians have such a large crop," he said.
The ABB's Marshall said Australian malting barley was US$194-195 FOB Australian ports, arriving C&amp;F China at about US$220 a tonne.
Earlier sales went for around $200 a tonne FOB, he said, adding that Canada's earlier FOB prices were around $210.
China's beer market is one of the most dynamic in the world, with 1995 year-on-year growth of 10.8 percent for total output of 15.46 million tonnes, according to official figures.
China produced 13.71 million tonnes of beer in the first nine months of 1996, up 5.45 percent on the year-ago period, State Statistical Bureau figures show.
China grows around four million tonnes of barley each year but little of malting quality.
Canada's exports of malting barley to China have averaged 300,000 to 400,000 tonnes a year in recent years.
Australia and the European Union share much of the remainder of the market, though Australia was out of the trading loop in 1994 because drought cut barley output to 2.4 million tonnes.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
The long-heralded wireless revolution is arriving in dozens of cities across the United States this week, with new tiny digital mobile phones offering clear connections, better battery life and few dropped calls.
For consumers it means lower prices, greater choice, and new add-on features like voice mail and paging built into the phone. For wireless firms new and old it means a huge fight to grab and keep customers in much more competitive markets.
"Fundamentally, wireless services will get cheaper," said David Roddy, chief telecommunications economist of Deloitte and Touche Consulting.
On Tuesday PrimeCo, a consortium of three regional Bells and AirTouch Communications Inc. will announce its new digital Personal Communications Services offering in a dozen cities across the country, covering 32 million people.
PrimeCo will start services in Chicago, Richmond and Norfalk in Virginia, the Texas cities of Houston, Dallas/Fort Worth, San Antonio and Austin, New Orleans and all of Florida.
"We are offering people a value proposition, and it will be a hassle-free experience," said PrimeCo spokesman Reg Rowe.
On Thursday Omnipoint Corp. will announce its own PCS service in metropolitan New York, fighting existing cellular providers AT&amp;T Corp., and merger partners Bell Atlantic Corp. and NYNEX Corp..
Eventually, Omnipoint will cover broad areas in the Northeast, where 40 million people live.
PCS refers to systems using licenses auctioned by the Federal Communications Commission in 1995. Two or three PCS providers will enter every city in the next three years to compete with two existing cellular service companies.
"We're already starting to spot bare bones pricing as companies vie for market share," Roddy said.
Building PCS networks across the country will cost at least $30 billion, and new entrants have to grab customers quickly, even at a loss, to get cash flowing in to start paying the interest charges. Bondholders will be watching closely.
"In some areas it could turn into a bloodbath. It's difficult to find a business plan that says five carriers can serve a given market and make money," Roddy said.
Comparing price is tough because of the variables of phone cost, monthly cost, per minute airtime and so on, but scales are expected to be similar to that offered by American Personal Communications, an affiliate of Sprint Corp..
APC offers customers in the Washington DC/Baltimore area phones for between $150-$200, a $15-a-month flat fee with 15 minutes free and a 31-cent-per-minute call charge.
Cellular's old pricing structure of year-long contracts, free phones but pricy airtime is changing.
"Nobody's doing contracts anymore, and one-cent phones are on their way out," said an Omnipoint spokesman.
APC's PCS service launched in November 1995 was the first in the country, undercutting cellular rivals by 30 percent.
In the first seven months of operation, APC gathered over 100,000 customers, many of them new to wireless. But as cellular rivals cut prices too, they also drew in extra customers, showing the depth of the potential marketplace.
Cellular providers are now upgrading their services too.
AT&amp;T in October launched its Digital PCS, which is not based on PCS license frequencies but does offer similar features. These include call waiting, voicemail-to-pager, and the benefits of doubled battery life and small handset size.
"About a third of our new customers signing on nationally are choosing Digital PCS," said AT&amp;T vice president Jane O'Donaghue, in the first hint of how the campaign is going.
The cost is $25 per month with 30 minutes of free airtime and a phone costing between $150 and $250.
Confusingly, AT&amp;T will start offerings its real PCS service next year. While it currently covers 76 million people with Digital PCS, its real PCS network when complete in 1998 will give virtually complete national coverage, reaching 212 million customers.
PrimeCo, which includes Bell Atlantic, NYNEX and U S West as well as AirTouch, has a special feature in its phones for customers who want to avoid running up big bills.
Customers can set a maximum monthly bill, and the phone will alert them when they near that figure.
"'First bill shock' has been a problem with cellular phones," said PrimeCo's Rowe.
Wireless companies will find niches to avoid head-on pricing, with some concentrating on the mobile professional, and others on pre-paid wireless calling.
Nevertheless, with crowded markets, consumers will have to sit down and work out which is the best value of all the offerings available.
"Its going to be a pretty confusing marketplace," said Roddy.
Britain's Serious Fraud Office has yet to contact London-based securities houses after a request for help with a French probe into Eurotunnel SA /Plc share dealings, market sources said on Monday.
The SFO said on Sunday it had been asked to lend a hand in an investigation by the French authorities into alleged market manipulation of the debt-laden channel tunnel operator's shares.
The SFO said it would help in the French probe although it had no grounds to launch an investigation of its own into the dealings which form the basis of the latest Paris investigation.
Securities firms contacted by Reuters on Monday said they had received no approach from the SFO and did not expect to do so. They all said they would co-operate fully if they were approached.
The investigation is another chapter in a troubled corporate story littered with incidents, which earlier this year saw two firms -- Salomon Brothers and Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) -- cleared of insider trading.
The two had been among underwriters of a Eurotunnel rights issue in 1994 and, although never named by Paris stock exchange watchdog the Commission de Operations de Bourse (COB), said that they were under investigation in July last year.
The underwriting group also included Banque Indosuez, Morgan Grenfell, now owned by Deutsche Bank AG, Societe de Banque, Banque Nationale de Paris, Banque Paribas, Caisse des Depots, Crdit Agricole, Credit Lyonnais, Robert Fleming, S.G. Warburg (now part of SBC) and Belgian utility Tractebel SA.
About two thirds of Eurotunnel shares are held in France and, as a general rule, more trading in the shares goes on in Paris than in London.
The SFO's usual practise is to issue notices which require a person or institution to be interviewed or hand over documents, although it can also apply for a search warrant if it wants to surprise its target.
On Monday, it remained unclear what period is currently under investigation.
The COB has already investigated the period surrounding the rights issue, though it could be revisiting this highly volatile time.
There have been persistent suggestions that some operators were short-selling at around the time of the rights issue -- forcing the prices down by selling shares they do not own in the hope of buying them back more cheaply later.
Eurotunnel has called on stock exchange authorities on both sides of the Channel to investigate volatile dealings at various times over the years.
Another example was in Agust 1995, when a rogue report that the company had signed a debt rescheduling agreement sent the stock reeling.
The Anglo-French tunnel operator at that time denied it had signed a debt agreement and demanded an inquiry into the trading activity and erroneous reports surrounding its shares and the incident might well be the focus of the French probe.
The incident occurred around three weeks before Eurotunnel announced a payments freeze on its huge debts and entered into negotiations on a rescheduling resulting in a restructuring of the debt announced a year later -- a year which also saw its fair share of leaks and speculation.
Moving to capitalise on enormous growth in the use of laser printers, Hewlett-Packard Co on Monday will launch a new genre of printers it calls the "mopier" to steal work from the copy machine.
The new device, dubbed the HP LaserJet 5Si Mopier, reduces the need to use copiers by allowing workers to make multiple original prints -- or "mopies" -- from their own desktop.
HP, which is already a market leader in printers, faxsimile machines and scanners, hopes the new model will help it capture a share of the $18.5 billion a year copier market.
Analysts expect the printers will present a challenge to copy machine giant Xerox Corp and other copier makers, as sales revenues of mid-range 20-30 pages per minute copiers is projected to drop by $300 million to $1 billion by 2000.
"Xerox is a dominant copier and printer vendor. This is a challenge and an opportunity for Xerox," said Robert Fennell, industry analyst at the market research firm Dataquest.
The market for midrange printers based on Canon Inc's 24-page per minute engine, until recently a relatively small segment of the market, is projected to surge by some 500 percent this year from 1995, he said.
With a U.S. list price of $9,549, the machine is more expensive than other departmental laser printers, but it contains more features and it is priced less than midrange copiers costing between $13,000 and $20,000.
Executives at Hewlett-Packard's LaserJet Solutions Group in Boise, Idaho, said the Mopier is part of its recently-unveiled Digital Workplace strategy aimed at addressing work flow and document management problems at work.
"Our customer research found that people are already mopying today," one of the executives said in an interview.
The new machine is based on HP's existing LaserJet 5Si models, but adds finishing tasks -- such as stapling and collating of documents.
A user-friendly interface to help guide workers through the printing options and tells them when their job is completed.
The Mopier is designed to cut down on the time office workers spend running between printers and copy machines, waiting for others to copy, and fixing paper jams.
It contains a 420 megabyte hard drive and reduces network traffic as well by storing each print task once and printing the number of copies specified, rather than requiring each print job to be sent down the network one at a time.
The initial Mopier model may pave the way for a whole family in the future, if it lives up to its expectations.
The introduction is timed to take advantage of a major shift towards network printing -- International Data Corp. reported the number of pages printed on printers in 1995 for the first year exceeded those printed of photocopy machines.
Westpac Banking Corp Ltd is expected to report on Tuesday that its net profit growth was reined back to a slower 10 percent in the 1995/96 year by an increasingly competitive home loan sector and a slower economy.
Analysts said the main focus in the results would be on how that increased competition and recent sharp cuts in home lending margins would hit Westpac's profits in 1996/97.
"You're really only going to have a full impact for the year ending September 1997," Morgan Stanley banking analyst John Hobson said of the sliding home loan margins.  
"There'll start to be a moderating influence (on profits) which intensifies throughout 1997," he said.
"You'll see fairly cautious statements being made at the briefing."
The median forecast in BZW's BARCEPs analyst survey is for a net profit before abnormals for the year to September 30, 1996 of A$1.12 billion, up about 10 percent from A$1.02 billion in 1994/95.
This compares with a 44 percent rise between 1993/94 and 1994/95.
Final approval for Lloyd's of London's recovery plan edged closer on Wednesday as it declared that over 90 percent of members had accepted a settlement offer aimed at securing the 300-year-old insurance market's future.
Lloyd's said it had been swamped by U.S. investors signing up for its recovery plan after a U.S. appeals court overturned a ruling that had threatened the insurance market's survival. By Wednesday afternoon 66.7 percent of U.S. members had accepted.
"The level of acceptances speaks for itself. Members have made their views toward the reconstruction of Lloyd's abundantly clear," Lloyd's chairman David Rowland said in a statement.
Earlier a Lloyd's spokesman said acceptances from U.S. Names, investors in the market, had flooded in overnight.
Almost half of the 2,700 U.S. Names had until last night held off. Only 53 percent had accepted by Tuesday.
This followed a Baltimore appeal court's decision late on Tuesday to overturn U.S. judge Robert Payne's ruling last Friday to allow U.S. Names more time to consider the plan.
Payne granted an injunction giving U.S. Names more time to consider the plan and ordered Lloyd's to provide further information by September 23. On Tuesday a panel of judges in Baltimore sent the case back to the Virginia district court with orders to dismiss it.
Rowland said he acknowledged many overseas members had deferred their acceptance in the light of the Virginia court judgement and the subsequent Baltimore ruling.
Over the last few days, evidence of support for the Lloyd's proposals among its 34,000 investors worldwide has grown. On Tuesday evening acceptances totalled 82 percent, compared to only 75 percent on Saturday.
Wednesday's noon deadline for accepting the recovery plan, under which Lloyd's proposes Names pay to help reinsure billions of pounds in liabilities into a new company called Equitas, was extended to give all a chance to respond.
Rowland said on Wednesday afternoon that in the circumstances it was "fair and proper" to exercise flexibility in pushing back the deadline for acceptances.
Lloyd's said that any formal, longer-term extension would be subject to a decision by its council at a Thursday meeting at which it would consider "the prospect of declaring the settlement offer acceptances unconditional."
This extension will crucially allow the market enough time to collect the convincing majority of acceptances, especially from U.S. Names, which it needs to prove its own solvency.
Lloyd's problems began in the 1980s when a destructive combination of negligent underwriting, poor investment advice and a sequence of natural disasters conspired to bring about losses of several billion pounds.
Long-standing Names were for the first time in their lives suddenly faced with the prospect of unlimited losses.
The market is due to submit figures to Britain's Department of Trade and Industry next week in an annual solvency test, and file with the U.S. Treasury and New York Insurance Department later next month.
Equitas may lift off in two weeks if all goes as planned. The recovery plan's success increasingly looks likely, but another challenge by U.S. Names has not been ruled out.
However, U.S. legal sources said overnight that, while U.S. investors could in theory attempt to challenge Tuesday's order it would be difficult to do so successfully.
Despite that, one U.S. Name and chief negotiator for an action group known as the American Names Association, Kenneth Chiate, said he expected U.S. Names to appeal the Baltimore ruling.
Shanghai's foreign currency B share market has been consistently hitting historic lows over the past two weeks, and there's little prospect of a recovery at least until the middle of next year, analysts said on Monday.
They said there was no sign of a bottom to the market, with the foreign investors for whom the market was created having largely sold up and left, leaving it to local investors.
The confidence of the foreign investors has been killed by an unending string of disappointing company results and by the failure of the authorities to add new, sizeable and well-run companies to the market as promised, the analysts said.
"Confidence is totally destroyed and even long-term investors have begun to liquidate their positions," said a Shanghai-based investment analyst with a Western brokerage. "A recovery of confidence will not happen overnight."
The B share index closed down 0.809 points or 1.77 percent to hit another record low close of 44.867 points on Monday. It has hit all-time lows on five separate days over the past two weeks.
"There is no hope for the market to recover at least until the middle of next year," said a B share broker. "The most important factor is that company performance for 1996 full-year is unlikely to improve."
The dismal state of the B share is in sharp contrast to the local A share market which continues to attract huge amounts of cash, setting two-year year highs on a regular basis.
It is also at variance with the general level of interest among foreign investors in participating in the Chinese economic boom that continues unabated, with national growth this year expected to hit at least nine percent.
"If they listed a good company on the B share market even at this point, people would be willing to buy it," said a stock analyst with a foreign brokerage in Shanghai.
Many B share firms were formerly state-run enterprises and the leadership, methods and attitudes of many are little changed from the days when they were accountable to no one by the state planners in Beijing.
"Unstable performance and declining profits of some key firms listed on the B shares market have made foreigners more and more doubtful about the future of the B share market as a whole," said a second B share broker. "There is no immediate support or bottom line that we can see."
"Few people are willing to buy because there is a fear that the market will just keep falling," said a Chinese analyst with a major local brokerage.
"But the falls have become meaningless with the volumes so thin," he added. "The market has no momentum to rise due to lack of positive news."
Calling it a crucial change for how it develops new cars and trucks, Ford Motor Co. Wednesday launched a new computer-aided design project based on a computer program from Structural Dynamics Research Corp..
Ford said the new project, called C3P, will cut prototype costs by up to 50 percent; improve investment efficiency by 20 percent to 30 percent; and eliminate half of costly late development changes.
"The new C3P initiative represents the most fundamental change of the engineering computer infrastructure in Ford's history," Paul Blumberg, director of product development systems at Ford's Product Development Center, said in a statement.
Officials did not specify any dollar amount savings. But executives said they fall under previously disclosed product development cost savings. Three new vehicle programs started this year will use C3P.
Once the program is fully implemented in 2000, Ford said it will merge computer-aided design, manufacturing and engineering functions into a seamless, unified system encompassing all stages of vehicle and component development.
Ford's decision to team up with Structural Dynamics Research (SDRC) raised eyebrows at competitors. The Milford, Ohio-based firm is a small player in the market of supplying computer aided design and manufacturing systems (CAD/CAM) to the auto industry, according to both competitors and analysts.
"You just don't hear about SDRC," said Ron Bienkowski, an executive engineer at Chrysler Corp.
Bienkowski also chided Ford for launching a new design program seven years after Chrysler did.
"We made the decision to go to a single system like C3P back in 1989," he said.
Chrysler, as well as several other Japanese and European automakers, use the more popular CATIA program from Paris-based Dassault Systemes and IBM Corp..
Charles Foundyller, president of market research firm Daratech Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., said the SDRC system is an easy-to-use, powerful system that should serve Ford well.
"All in all, I don't think Ford made a bad decision," he said.
Ford made the C3P announcement as part of a half-day presentation to reporters touting the No. 2 U.S. automaker's computer capabilities. Among other news items announced Wednesday, Ford:
-- plans to eliminate 90 percent of its physical prototypes by 2000 in favor of electronic versions. Physical prototypes now constitute about 40 percent to 50 percent today;
-- will be able to conduct a computer-simulated frontal crash for $10 in 2000, compared to the $200 it currently costs;
-- will introduce a production car in Europe in 1997 that was designed almost completely using computer technology.
Ford executives were hard-pressed to assign dollar amounts to all of the new computer design and prototype initiatives.
But Claude Lobo, director of advanced design at Ford, said the new systems dramatically improve quality and free designers and engineers to take more risks.
British media company EMAP said on Monday it expected to bring a damaging boardroom row to a swift conclusion and build on a strong first-half profit performance.
Finance director David Grigson told Reuters that he believed that an extraordinary general meeting next month would resolve the boardroom battle that has undermined the company's share price in recent weeks.
"The EGM will be a purging process. It will clear the air and leave us with a smaller and happier board," he said.
The EGM, scheduled for December 2, has been called to seek the removal of rebel non-executive directors Ken Simmonds and Joe Cooke from the board.
The pair have led the opposition to changes made to the company's articles at its annual general meeting in July. The changes remove a requirement to maintain at least five non-executive directors and allow a director to be ousted if 75 percent of the board vote for his removal.
EMAP shares, which had fallen from 783p in early October, gained 10p to 732 1/2p after first half profits beat expectations and the company made a bullish statement on its second half prospects.
Pre-tax, pre-exceptional profit grew by 34 percent to 50.6 million pounds ($83.4 million) in the six months to September 30, 1996.
The company also posted a one-off gain of 113.5 million pounds on the sale in June of its regional newspaper business to Johnston Press Plc.
EMAP began life as a regional newspaper company in 1947 but has now decided to focus on commercial radio, consumer magazines and business communications -- trade papers and exhibitions.
It is one of Britain's top commercial radio operators and has a 16 percent share of the French consumer magazine market. Interim dividend was increased from 3.7p to 4.3p as the company looked to the future with optimism.
EMAP said that margins should improve as paper prices continue to decline. Proceeds from the sale of the regional newspaper business should lead to a significant reduction in interest charges.
"EMAP is optimistic about the prospects for the second half, and looks forward to a further sustained period of profit growth," the company said.
Operating profit from its British consumer magazines totalled 19.9 million pounds while the recent acquisition of Tele Star helped its French magazine operation more than double profits to 13.4 million.
Radio contributed 10 million pounds to operating profits, boosted by the acquisition last year of several stations in north-east England. Business communications made an operating profit of 10.2 million.
($1=.6067 Pound)
EchoStar Communications Corp. -- the upstart in the direct broadcast satellite television business -- gave the nascent industry a major jolt this month with a sharp price cut.
The jolt reverberated earlier this week when Thomson, the U.S. unit of France's Thomson-CSF, which dominates the satellite TV dish market, matched EchoStar's new price at $199 for a satellite dish.
Thomson executives said the new price will surely shake up the industry and fuel sales for what is said to be the fastest growing consumer electronics product ever -- one that even now is taking market share from the cable industry.
"It will completely change the nature of the business," said Joe Clayton, an executive vice president at Thomson.
Thomson's move cut the price of the RCA brand digital satellite system by as much as $200 a unit. Combined with a $200 cash back offer by programming providers DirecTV, a unit of Hughes Electronics Corp., and U.S. Satellite Broadcasting Co., it cut the total price to $199 for consumers who pre-pay for one year of programming.
Programming costs from $29.95 a month for 70 channels on DirecTV to $44.95 a month for all 175 channels on DirecTV.
The lower price -- while welcome for consumers -- will make it harder for new entrants to break into the market and make a profit.
Other consumer electronics giants, Uniden America Corp., Toshiba America Consumer Products Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Matsushita Electric Corp of America have announced plans to introduce new DSS systems later this year.
Thomson will make the dishes for Toshiba and Panasonic.
"We know the telcos and the cable companies are getting more involved," Clayton said. "We are going to capitalise on our strengths now."
He added that the $199 price will make the "awareness base explode."
Thomson has an estimated 45 percent of the digital satellite system dish market, which amounted to 3.4 million units worldwide at the end of July, according to the Carmel Group.
"It's been a real winner for them," said Jimmy Schaeffler, an analyst at the market research firm in Carmel, Calif. "Plus it has launched them into the international marketplace."
Schaeffler said satellite television is gaining markets outside the United States where there is no cable service because it does not require installing massive cable systems.
"Most of the rest of the world is not very cable wired, so there is a clear opportunity for direct broadcast satellite," Schaeffler said. Satellite TV is also becoming big in this country while vaunted digital cable systems undergo trials.
New competitors see an opportunity in digital satellites -- a technology that is already here and working. MCI Communications, aligned with Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Ltd, already has a valuable U.S. satellite slot.
The move to cut prices to gain market share is changing the industry, which Clayton said is moving more toward a cellular telephone model, where the hardware is the lowest cost -- sometimes practically nothing -- and revenues come from services and programming.
"They have to fight within the industry and competitors from outside the industry," Schaeffler said. "They are doing the rebates because of the market share. It's a combination of EchoStar pushing everyone to a lower price point nationally and the effort to maintain and acquire future markets."
Asked how low prices of satellite dishes could go, Clayton joked that he had never seen prices in consumer electronics products go up. Other analysts also expect prices to keep falling.
"Maybe Charlie will take it to zero, but I don't think we will," Clayton said of EchoStar Chairman Charles Ergen.
A spokeswoman said Englewood, Colo.-based EchoStar, which launched its satellite network in March, already has 125,000 subscribers for its programming, which has 40 TV channels and 30 channels of music, compared with 175 channels offered by DirecTV.
The launch next month of a second satellite will increase its offerings to up to 200 channels, EchoStar said.
Novell Inc. said Tuesday it will license one of its key technologies to other software companies in a move to expand its sources of revenue.
Novell, which publishes computer networking programmes, wants to establish the technology, Novell Directory Services, as a software foundation for letting people easily find others on the Internet and for sharing information.
The move is part of Orem, Utah-based Novell's strategy to adapt its corporate networking software to control the flow of information through global networks, company executives said.
"The goal is to get into electronic commerce," said Michael Simpson, director of marketing of Novell's Internet infrastructure division. "We believe a common infrastructure is necessary and we will provide it."
Simpson compared the variety of computer networks and software standards to the early days of the telephone industry, when a customer of one telephone company could not call someone who was a customer of another company.
Novell Directory Services, also known as NDS, would help users in huge corporate or public computer networks reach others without knowing arcane electronic addresses.
Adapted for the Internet, the technology also would let users communicate with others regardless of computer or software standards, Novell said.
Novell plans to license the technology to networking software companies, Internet service providers and online services. Novell and other software companies would make money by writing computer programmes that take advantage of the universal directory, the company said.
Tom Arthur, a Novell vice president, declined to say how much Novell expects to make from the move, but said it would see a significant boost by the middle of 1997.
He also declined to say which companies would license NDS, but said work is being done to adapt it to run on computers using networking software from Sun Microsystems Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
For the past two year, Novell has been trying to recover from a failed strategy of taking on Microsoft Corp., its biggest rival, in the word processor and spreadsheet business.
Novell dumped its application business by selling its WordPerfect Corp. unit earlier this year. But the company has had a tough time rebuilding its business around NetWare, its flagship networking product.
Microsoft has been chipping away at NetWare's market share with its rival offering, Windows NT.
Novell's stock edged down 12.5 cents to $10.50 on Nasdaq.
International Business Machines Corp. will update its strategy for electronic commerce Tuesday, and will unveil new partners and show examples of projects already in the works.
Electronic commerce is a widely used buzz word in the computer industry which refers to buying and selling goods and services or conducting transactions over computer networks, including the globe-spanning Internet.
For IBM, the world's largest computer maker, electronic commerce is a potentially huge opportunity to provide products and services to help its customers do business online.
An IBM spokesman declined to provide any details, except to say that IBM will provide an update on where it is now and where it is going in electronic commerce.
Top executives from IBM's Lotus Development Corp. subsidiary, its Internet division and its just-announced Network Computer unit will hold a news conference.
Analysts said IBM plans to announce several new partners for various applications it has developed, targeted at specific industries, such as an automotive company which is co-developing an auto-loan application on the Internet.
IBM will also unveil and demonstrate an application targeted at the petroleum industry, a Web site called PetroConnect that will let energy companies share geological information over the Internet to aid in their oil-exploration searches.
Analysts also expect the computer giant to add 10 new retailers to its World Mall, its shopping site on the Internet targeted at consumers.
IBM will also officially roll out its Network Computer division and possibly some new models of the Network Station, its first network computer, aimed at a specific industries.
Earlier Monday, IBM announced that it had formed a unit to focus all its development and marketing efforts in the embryonic market for these scaled-down computer devices.
Analysts said that, while electronic commerce represents a big opportunity for IBM and the rest of the computer industry, the market is still so young that it is hard to estimate what revenues will be, where they will come from and how long it will take for these ventures to be profitable.
"I think IBM is very well poised to make money from all of these things, but it will be a year or two before anything happens," said Stan Dolberg, a Forrester Research analyst.
"The Internet commerce offerings, whether they are services or products, have to be really focused on a specific industry to be complete," Dolberg added.
Indeed, IBM is developing many industry-specific services, such as its petroleum industry Web service, and the automotive industry application. IBM will also announce a partnership with Charles Schwab Corp., the discount brokerage firm that has already been very active in developing online brokerage and trading services.
But it is not yet clear whether IBM will make much money from services and transactions, of which it will get a piece.
The semiconductor industry said Monday its key indicator rose last month to the highest level in almost a year, reflecting a surge in new orders for computer chips.
The so-called book-to-bill ratio, which measures the value of new orders compared with shipments over a trailing three-month period, jumped to 1.10 in October from a revised 0.98 in September, marking the first time it has been over 1 since December 1995.
The index, widely regarded as a sign of the computer industry's health, means that manufacturers received $110 in new orders for every $100 in shipments.
The Semiconductor Industry Association said new chip orders in October rose 17.9 percent to $3.84 billion while shipments increased by 5 percent from the previous month to $3.39 billion.
Analysts said the surge was likely a one-time phenomenon as vendors sought to catch up with increasing demand after having pared back inventories sharply early in the year when prices of memory chips in particular were tumbling.
"These strong numbers for new orders in the Americas market should reinforce our industry's cautious optimism for a solid fourth quarter," said Douglas Andrey, director of Information Systems and Finance at the Securities Industry Association.
Analysts said they expect computer chip stocks, which had been firm ahead of the announcement on the expectation the ratio would rise modestly to somewhere between 0.99 and 1.03, to advance further following the upbeat data.
Shares of Intel Corp, the world's largest maker of semiconductors, surged as high as $124.69 in after-hours trade, 6 cents below its all-time trading high last week. Earlier, it closed up $1.625 at $123.875 on the Nasdaq market.
"I think it's an overall positive for stocks tomorrow," said Charles Boucher, semiconductor analyst at UBS Securities.
"The Street got possibly a little better than they were looking for, so I think you've got a chance to add on to this rally tomorrow," he said. "The danger here is in investors getting too enthusiastic about the size of this number."
Separately, the trade group said it was planning to phase out the North American semiconductor index and replace it with a global index that would help industry watchers keep better track of demand for computer chips.
The industry group said it was making the change because the current figure only tracks sales and orders in the Americas, representing only a third of the total world market, and provided disproportionate data on certain chip sectors.
While both industry and analysts have criticized the wide fluctuations and frequent revisions in the data -- even the September number was revised to 0.98 from 0.99 -- the move taken by industry consensus met with mixed reviews.
"I think it's a good idea," said Intel spokesman Howard High. "The book-to-bill hasn't really reflected the true health of the industry, good or bad, for quite a while."
"As the business turned very global in its nature, the book-to-bill flash report was a U.S.-based number," he said. "If you take it to the global market, it's really not done the job that people have been using it for."
But some analysts said the decision to drop aggregate bookings data altogether would only increase the amount of market uncertainty, as investors would have to rely on far more speculative estimates of new orders.
"I think it's going to blow up in their face," one top analyst said. "It's going to be a lot more speculative. We're all going to be trying to do the analysis but we're going to be doing it based on our own independent surveys."
Key semiconductor makers had argued, however, that bookings data was imprecise and subject to varying inventory strategies of distributors without any uniform reporting methods.
Virginia-based Dominion Resources executives Tuesday began merger talks with British utility East Midlands Electricity in an effort to agree on a takeover price.
Dominion's chairman, chief finance officer and attorneys began meeting in London with East Midlands Chairman Nigel Rudd, Chief Executive Norman Askew and their advisers -- the merchant bank Schroders -- a source close to the British regional electric company said.
No further details were immediately available.
Richmond, Va.-based Dominion Resources owns Virginia Power.
Dominion and East Midlands agreed to talk despite East Midlands' insistence it would reject any offer from Dominion Resources pitched at around 6.08 pounds sterling per share ($10.05), which would value the British company at 1.2 billion pounds ($2 billion).
In the fifth potential U.S. bid for one of Britain's 12 cash-rich regional electricity companies, Dominion said last week that it was considering an offer "at a price not much in excess of 608 pence per share."
But East Midlands, the first of its wealthy peers to launch a stock buy-back in an attempt to redistribute cash to shareholders, scorned the price as undervaluing the Nottingham-based utility's prospects.
East Midlands, the target of consistent bid speculation as seven of 12 regional electricity companies have fallen to predators and an eighth, Northern Electric, is facing its second hostile bid, saw its stock end 8.5 pence (14 cents) higher at 6.12 pounds ($10.12).
Dominion's stock closed up 12.5 cents at $39.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Some traders and analysts said the London market remained unconvinced the American utility would launch a bid.
Nigel Hawkins, utilities analyst at the Yamaichi brokerage, said Dominion would need to start merger talks at 650 pence ($10.74) per share, but added East Midlands was unlikely to recommend a bid much below 7 pounds, or 700 pence ($11.57).
"I do not believe East Midlands would recommend a bid siginficantly below 700p per share," he said. "I am not saying they would refuse it at the 690p ($11.40) level."
Traders also emphasised that Dominion could still walk away from the talks amid regulatory and political uncertainties.
A Dominion Resources spokesman has said the U.S. company was well aware of the uncertainties that surround the purchase of a British electrical utility.
A lull in a wave of bids for electric companies came to an abrupt halt last month when CE Electric -- jointly owned by CalEnergy Co. and Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc. -- launched a hostile 650 million-pound ($1.07 billion) bid for Northern Electric.
The Nebraska-based utility has built up a stake of around 29.5 percent in a series of market raids on Northern Electric, which became the first regional electric company to be faced with a takevoer attempt in December 1994.
A costly shareholder package in defence against the unwanted attentions of conglomerate Trafalgar House left Northern Electric with high debts.
Stock in Canada's big banks tumbled on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday after a Canadian brokerage cut its recommendations on the high-flying bank group.
CIBC Wood Gundy, a unit of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, cut its ratings on four of the so-called Big Six banks. Montreal-based National Bank of Canada, the smallest of the six major banks, received the only buy recommendation.
"We are lowering our recommendations on the group of Canadian bank stocks, moving from three buys to only one buy," said CIBC Wood Gundy analyst Mark Maxwell.
Canadian bank stocks have soared to all-time highs in recent months, with Toronto's bank index up 46 percent in 1996.
But the group's valuation multiples are now averaging 1.7 times book value -- closing the gap between Canadian bank stocks and their U.S. counterparts, Maxwell said in a report to institutional investors.
Toronto's financial services group plummeted 145 points, or 2.7 percent, in heavy trading on Tuesday.
Bank of Montreal, which Maxwell reduced to hold from accumulate, fell C$1.55 ($1.16) to C$42.15 ($31.63) on 1.5 million shares.
Bank of Nova Scotia dropped C$1.85 ($1.38) to C$44.50 ($33.39) on 995,000 shares after Maxwell recommended investors reduce their Scotiabank holdings.
Royal Bank of Canada, which was cut to accumulate from buy, surrendered C$1.30 ($0.75) to C$46 ($34.52) on 2.9 million shares. Canada's biggest bank is the group's valuation leader with a multiple of 2.0 times book value, Maxwell said.
CIBC dropped C$1.70 ($1.27) to C$57.25 ($43) on 700,000 shares. Maxwell did not assign a ranking to CIBC.
Toronto-Dominion Bank sank C$1.15 (86 cents) to C$33.40 ($25) on volume of 1.3 million shares after it was lowered to accumulate from buy.
"Of the five largest banks, our top pick would remain TD (Toronto-Dominion), since it is most likely to continue to exercise its share repurchase programme, even at current multiples, reflecting its superior capital strength," Maxwell said.
National Bank of Canada fell 55 cents Canadian (41 cents) to C$13.35 ($10) on 1.05 million shares despite having the only buy recommendation of the group.
But some stock strategists remained bullish on Canadian banks. They said the group was still popular among foreign investors seeking to jump into the Canadian market, lured by interest rates at 40-year lows and a recovering economy.
"Foreigners are attracted to Canadian investments and one of the best areas they can participate in is the banking sector," said Ira Katzin, an investment advisor with RBC Dominion Securities.
The Supreme Court Tuesday declined a request by federal regulators and long-distance phone companies to reactivate landmark rules intended to pry open the nation's local phone monopolies to competition.
The denial means key terms and conditions for deregulating the $100 billion local phone market will for now depend on the decisions of state regulators in the 50 states -- instead of on uniform rules issued by the Federal Communications Commission.
The denial was a defeat for the FCC and long-distance giants AT&amp;T Corp.  and MCI Communications Corp., which had sought to reinstate FCC rules suspended by a U.S. appeals court pending a legal challenge to the rules. Supreme Court Justice Thomas had declined to restore them.
It was a victory for the regional "Baby Bell" companies, GTE Corp.  , other local carriers and state regulators who are seeking to overturn the rules in the appeals court in St. Louis. They argue that the FCC unfairly snatched from the states power to issue policies governing pricing and other matters.
The rules spell out how long-distance companies, cable-TV operators, utilities and others wanting to get into the local phone business can plug into local networks under the new federal telecommunications law.
"For all practical purposes the states have complete control over the prices new entrants will pay to share the existing telephone networks during the critical period when competition is supposed to begin in local telephone markets," FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said after the high court's denial.
The appeals court temporarily suspended the rules last month, saying the FCC probably erred when it drafted them.
On Oct. 31, Justice Thomas declined a request by the FCC and its long-distance allies to lift the lower court's "stay." They separately asked Justices Ruth Bader Ginsberg and John Paul Stevens to reconsider the request, and the justices referred the matter to the entire court.
"The stay prevents grossly arbitrary and distored pricing rules from going into effect and ruining the whole process," said GTE General Counsel William Barr. "It does not delay the timetable set forth in the Telecommunications Act of 1996 for the introduction of competition, but instead allows for a more level playing field."
Oral arguments in the case are set for January. FCC Chairman Hundt conceded Friday it was unlikely the appeals court would decide in favour of the FCC, and he doubted that the rules would be put into effect for at least 1-1/2 years, if ever, while they were fought over in the courts.
Hundt was encouraged, however, by the actions of state regulators arbitrating connection agreements between the Bells and their long-distance rivals.
He said key provisions of the arbitration decisions issued thus far were similar to the suspended FCC rules.
Iowa, Texas, Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania have been among the states that have issued decisions that will lay the groundwork for arbitrated agreements between the Bells and AT&amp;T, MCI and No. 3 long-distance company Sprint Corp.
"There hasn't been any evidence that the states are going off and doing any wild and crazy stuff," said analyst Robert Mayer of Deloitte &amp; Touche Consulting Group.
The top executives of U.S. utility Dominion Resources were locked in their first bid talks with British power supplier East Midlands Electricity on Tuesday to try and hammer out a takeover price.
A source close to the British regional electricity supplier said a meeting between Dominion's chairman, chief finance officer and lawyers and East Midlands' chairman Nigel Rudd and Norman Askew, the chief executive, and their advisers -- merchant bank Schroders -- was starting in London at 1700 GMT.
No further details were immediately available.
Talks were agreed despite East Midlands' insistence that it would reject any offer from the Virginia-based utility pitched at around 608 pence per share, which would value the British company at 1.2 billion pounds ($2 billion).
In the fifth potential U.S. bid for one of Britain's 12 cash rich regional electricity companies (RECs), Dominion said last week that it was considering an offer "at a price not much in excess of 608 pence per share".
But East Midlands, the first of its wealthy peers to launch a share buy-back in an attempt to redistribute cash to shareholders, scorned the price, stating that it would undervalue the Nottingham-based power supplier's prospects.
East Midlands, the target of consistent bid speculation as seven of 12 RECs have fallen to predators and an eighth, Northern Electric, is facing its second hostile bid, saw its shares end 8.5 pence higher at 612 pence.
But some traders and analysts said the market remained unconvinced that the American utility would launch a bid.
Nigel Hawkins, utilities analyst at brokers Yamaichi, said Dominion would need to start bid talks at 650 pence per share, but added that East Midlands was unlikely to recommend a bid much below 700 pence.
"I do not believe East Midlands would recommend a bid siginficantly below 700p per share," he said. "I am not saying they would refuse it at the 690p level."
Traders also emphasised that Dominion could still walk away from the bid talks amid regulatory and political uncertainties.
A spokesman for Dominion Resources has said the U.S. group was well aware of the uncertainties that surround the purchase of a British electricity company.
The popular opposition Labour Party has threatened to impose a windfall tax on utilities if it comes to power in the next general election, due by May 1997.
But the U.S. group may feel its bid will win approval from regulators. Britain has so far cleared three U.S. bids for regional electricity companies.
A lull in a wave of bids for electricity companies was brought to an abrupt halt last month when CE Electric -- jointly owned by CalEnergy Co and  Peter Kiewit Sons' Inc -- launched a hostile 650 million pound bid for Northern Electric.
The Nebraska-based utility has built up a stake of around 29.5 percent in a series of market raids in Northern Electric, which became the first REC to be faced with a takevoer attempt in December 1994.
A costly shareholder package in a defence against the unwanted attentions of conglomerate Trafalgar House, now owned by Norway's Kvaerner, has left Northern Electric with high debts. ($1=.6050 Pound)
Czech President Vaclav Havel on Tuesday called the opposition Social Democrat leader "extremely irresponsible" for claiming the secret service was being used for party politics.
Havel's remarks came as campaigning for closely-fought Senate elections due this weekend turned increasingly bitter, with the secret service in the middle.
Earlier Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus accused Social Democrat leader Milos Zeman of lying when he made a thinly-veiled allegation that the BIS intelligence agency had tried to extract compromising material from his elderly mother.
The slanging match between the two leading antagonists of Czech politics began on Monday when BIS director Stanislav Devaty, a Klaus protege, was forced to quit over allegations of spying on a deputy premier and a subsequent coverup.
"Yesterday's comments by Zeman on a police state, or on the BIS as a political police in the service of one party, are a visible result of losing his nerve before the elections," Klaus told a news conference on Tuesday.
"I can imagine such words being said by a radical anarchist but I can't imagine them from one of the three highest constitutional officials of this country."
On Monday Zeman, who is lower house speaker, accused Klaus of playing dirty before the Senate elections, where the Social Democrats have been running level with Klaus's ruling Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in most opinion polls.
"During the last three years an operational group has existed within the BIS which has been responsible for shadowing several Social Democrat politicians," said Zeman.
Havel, who is politically neutral, said after talks with Interior Minister Jan Ruml:  "I can only say that I consider (Zeman's) statements to be extremely irresponsible."
"As chairman of the parliament he should know that it is necessary to proceed in the proper ways," Havel said at his private residence in the Hradecek region of east Bohemia.
He said Zeman should have first brought the charges to a parliamentary commission overseeing the intelligence services before making them public.
But the president added that he would meet Zeman, who promised to produce evidence backing the claims next week.
Havel, imprisoned on several occasions as a political dissident under communism, said he "could not be the head of a state which would create a system for spying on its politicians".
He said rogue individuals or groups within the BIS might attempt such actions, but without the approval of superiors.
Spymaster Devaty quit after Deputy Prime Minister Josef Lux, who leads the Christian Democrats, junior partners in Klaus's coalition, accused the BIS of spying on him three years ago and then covering up the operation.
Allegations of politically-inspired spying have surfaced in recent years in a country where memories of the pervasive state security apparatus during four decades of communism still linger.
Klaus said the agent had been spying not on Lux, but on his former adviser, director of a bank which collapsed amid fraud allegations in 1993. He has not explained why the security service was investigating an apparent fraud case.
Crude oil output in Russia, the world's third-largest oil producer, is finally ending a decade of dramatic decline, but it is still a long way from switching back into top gear.
"We could see 1997 output stabilise at 1996's level," said Vitaly Kamenev of the Economy Ministry's fuel department. "But we won't see any real pick-up until at least 1998."
Russian oil output slipped two percent year-on-year to 146 million tonnes in the first half of 1996, after falling three percent in the first half of 1994, according to the State Statistics Committee. Most of the decline came from companies producing over 10 million tonnes a year.
"It is the ministry's opinion that output will fall two or three percent next year," said a Fuel and Energy Ministry source who declined to be named, saying that the matter was sensitive.
That would still be one of the lowest declines Russia's beleaguered oil industry has seen in recent years.
It would also be a sign that the era of steep plunges is finally drawing to a close.
Russia's 1995 output of 305 million tonnes, or 6.2 million barrels per day, is stabilising at just over half of 1987's peak of 570 million tonnes (11.4 million bpd).
The numbers matter because they indicate the pace at which Russia, once the world's largest oil producer, may regain that place as its economy and domestic oil prices grow.
But it is still early.
"There are a lot of expectations that the barrier will be broken next year, but it won't -- output will be flat," said Tamara Okhundova, energy analyst at the Centre for Economic Trends, a research institute set up by the government.
Moscow is for now committed to subsidising domestic oil prices to help flagging industrial enterprises, and export levels cannot rise significantly until new pipelines are built -- two key factors that do not inspire higher production levels.
"Production next year is going to be pretty flat, and if anything, slightly lower," said energy analyst Jeremy Hudson of Salomon Brothers in London.
He said that if parliament soon approved a list of reserves open to production-sharing, an initial, positive impact on output could be felt by the end of 1997.
Russia's joint ventures, which account for less than five percent of production, are showing the biggest increases in output, with their production up 18 percent in the first half 1996 to seven million tonnes.
When the big-ticket joint ventures and production-sharing deals begin producing in several years, total output could soar.
A bull-run in world prices and Moscow's scrapped export duties have inspired Russian producers to put even more oil into already over-strapped export pipelines.
But a tax clampdown on high foreign-exchange earners and a lack of commitment by new shareholders in Russian oil companies to reinvest in production are both sucking up cash.
Julian Leigh, Russia analyst at the Centre for Global Energy Studies in London, said higher export dollars were not necessarily finding their way back into production.
He said domestic commercial banks, some of which are major stockholders in big Russian oil companies, preferred to pump cash into markets with better returns, like equity.
Rehabilitating wells is one of the fastest and cheapest ways to boost output, but most of the easy, less expensive workovers have been completed and average well production rates have not been as high as expected.
Russia has 144,000 oil wells, of which nearly 40,000, or 28 percent, are idle. Hudson said average workover rates -- the cost of bringing these back on stream -- could rise to $100,000 per well from $25,000.
EchoStar Communications Corp. -- the upstart in the direct broadcast satellite television business -- gave the nascent industry a major jolt this month with a sharp price cut.
The jolt reverberated earlier this week when Thomson, the U.S. unit of France's Thomson-CS, which dominates the satellite TV dish market, matched EchoStar's new price at $199 for a satellite dish.
Thomson executives said the new price will surely shake up the industry and fuel sales for what is said to be the fastest growing consumer electronics product ever -- one that even now is taking market share from the cable industry.
"It will completely change the nature of the business," said Joe Clayton, an executive vice president at Thomson.
Thomson's move cut the price of the RCA brand digital satellite system by as much as $200 a unit. Combined with a $200 cash back offer by programming providers DirecTV, a unit of Hughes Electronics Corp., and U.S. Satellite Broadcasting Co., it cut the total price to $199 for consumers who pre-pay for one year of programming.
Programming costs from $29.95 a month for 70 channels on DirecTV to $44.95 a month for all 175 channels on DirecTV.
The lower price -- while welcome for consumers -- will make it harder for new entrants to break into the market and make a profit.
Other consumer electronics giants, Uniden America Corp., Toshiba America Consumer Products Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Matsushita Electric Corp of America have announced plans to introduce new DSS systems later this year.
Thomson will make the dishes for Toshiba and Panasonic.
"We know the telcos and the cable companies are getting more involved," Clayton said. "We are going to capitalise on our strengths now."
He added that the $199 price will make the "awareness base explode."
Thomson has an estimated 45 percent of the total digital satellite dish market, which amounted to 3.4 million units worldwide at the end of July, according to the Carmel Group.
"It's been a real winner for them," said Jimmy Schaeffler, an analyst at the market research firm in Carmel, Calif. "Plus it has launched them into the international marketplace."
Schaeffler said satellite television is gaining markets outside the United States where there is no cable service because it does not require installing massive cable systems.
"Most of the rest of the world is not very cable wired, so there is a clear opportunity for direct broadcast satellite," Schaeffler said. Satellite TV is also becoming big in this country while vaunted digital cable systems undergo trials.
New competitors see an opportunity in digital satellites -- a technology that is already here and working. MCI Communications, aligned with Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Ltd, already has a valuable U.S. satellite slot.
The move to cut prices to gain market share is changing the industry, which Clayton said is moving more toward a cellular telephone model, where the hardware is the lowest cost -- sometimes practically nothing -- and revenues come from services and programming.
"They have to fight within the industry and competitors from outside the industry," Schaeffler said. "They are doing the rebates because of the market share. It's a combination of EchoStar pushing everyone to a lower price point nationally and the effort to maintain and acquire future markets."
Asked how low prices of satellite dishes could go, Clayton joked that he had never seen prices in consumer electronics products go up. Other analysts also expect prices to keep falling.
"Maybe Charlie will take it to zero, but I don't think we will," Clayton said of EchoStar Chairman Charles Ergen.
A spokeswoman said Englewood, Colo.-based EchoStar, which launched its satellite network in March, already has 125,000 subscribers for its programming, which has 40 TV channels and 30 channels of music, compared with 175 channels offered by DirecTV.
The launch next month of a second satellite will increase its offerings to up to 200 channels, EchoStar said.
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus accused opposition Social Democrat leader Milos Zeman of lying and losing his nerve as neck-and-neck campaigning for weekend Senate elections turned increasingly bitter.
Zeman made a thinly-veiled allegation that the BIS intelligence agency had tried to extract compromising material from his elderly mother.
The slanging match between the two leading antagonists of Czech politics began on Monday when BIS director Stanislav Devaty, a Klaus protege, was forced to quit over allegations of spying on a deputy prime minister and a subsequent coverup.
"Yesterday's comments by Zeman on a police state, or on the BIS as a political police in the service of one party, are a visible result of losing his nerve before the elections," Klaus told a news conference.
"I can imagine such words being said by a radical anarchist but I can't imagine them from one of the three highest constitutional officials of this country."
On Monday Zeman, who is lower house speaker, accused Klaus of playing dirty before the Senate elections, where the Social Democrats have been running level with the ruling Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in most opinion polls.
"The political struggle should be a struggle of arguments and not an abuse of secret services for spying on political opponents," he said.
"During the last three years an operational group has existed within the BIS which has been responsible for shadowing several Social Democrat politicians," said Zeman.
Spymaster Devaty quit after Deputy Prime Minister Josef Lux, who leads the junior Christian Democrats in Klaus's coalition, accused the BIS of spying on him three years ago.
The BIS had covered up the operation by failing to report it to the cabinet and a parliamentary commission supervising the agency.
Klaus said the agent had been spying not on Lux, who is also agriculture minister, but on a former adviser of his who was director of a bank which collapsed amidst fraud allegations in 1993. He has not explained why the state security service was investigating an apparent fraud case.
Devaty was a member of Klaus's ODS, although he had suspended his membership to become BIS chief.
Allegations of politically-inspired spying on both government and opposition politicians have surfaced regularly in recent years in a country where memories remain of the pervasive state security apparatus before communism fell in 1989.
The political temperature soared on Tuesday when Zeman said his 79-year-old mother had been visited by "certain people" trying to acquire compromising information.
Asked about this comment, Klaus said: "If this actually represents what he said then this is such an unbelievable lie that I couldn't bring myself to reply at all. It's pure lie."
Klaus accused Zeman of running a negative campaign.
"Instead of programmes there are scandals and affairs which destabilise the state and damage our country abroad," he said.
"The BIS affair is a clear evidence that above all the (Social Democrats) lack, in contrast to the ODS, a positive programme."
The green fields of agricultural biotechnology are turning into a legal battle ground as companies file suits and countersuits against each other to protect their stakes in the budding business.
Biotech players are "suing each other over control of the technology," said Ray Goldberg, professor of Agriculture and Business at the Harvard Graduate School of Business. "They are going to redefine how they work together."
At stake are rights to produce and sell genetically enhanced crops. After more than a decade of research, biotech crops are beginning to be commercialized. They include corn and cotton that produce their own pesticides and soybeans that can withstand the use of certain herbicides.
In the end, analysts and company executives say, many of the lawsuits are expected to be settled out of court, resulting in agreements to license and swap technology.
"It is very unlikely, because stakes are very high, that the seed companies will really let this work its way entirely through the court system," said Dain Bosworth analyst Bonnie Wittenburg.
"Ultimately (companies) will cross-license, trade rights and use these pieces of protected technology as assets and trade them back and forth," added Timothy Martin, a spokesman for Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc.
Pioneer, which provides the leading share of seed for corn, the biggest U.S. crop, has been sued for alleged patent infringement by DeKalb Genetics Corp.
Pioneer's defence is that it has a U.S. patent pending, which if approved could supersede DeKalb's claims. Pioneer said the application for that patent was filed before DeKalb's.
The case illustrates how new and pending patents complicate the legal landscape for agricultural biotechnology as seed and biotech development companies seek protection for their gene portfolios, production methods and the biotech crops themselves.
"The patent positions are not yet clear. The patents that have been issued leave some room for different interpretations," said Michael Sund, vice president of communications and investor relations for Mycogen Corp.
Mycogen and Monsanto Co. have sued each other for alleged patent infringement, and Mycogen is considering appealing some recent rulings in Monsanto's favour, Sund said.
Despite the legal complications, companies are expected to continue full-steam to commercialize biotech crops.
"They've made the decision to go ahead," said Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman.
Mycogen, for example, this year commercialized in limited quantities three corn hybrids that contain the Bt gene, which enables the plant to produce a substance that is toxic to the European core borer, a major pest.
Sund said the hybrids have performed well, as expected, in fighting off the corn borer. "Performance has been everything we hoped for," he added.
A genetically enhanced cotton that contains the Bt gene to fight bollworm has come under some tough scrutiny this year after a heavy infestation of the pest in some areas of Texas prompted farmers to use chemical sprays on the crop.
Monsanto, which collaborated with Delta and Pine Land Co. to produce Bollgard cotton, maintained that the biotech crop still performed well. Monsanto said Bollgard cotton had to be sprayed less than traditional cotton.
The collaboration between Monsanto and Delta and Pine Land is but one example of the partnerships that are being forged in agricultural biotechnology.
Monsanto has an ownership stake in DeKalb and Pioneer has a research collaboration with Mycogen.
These partnerships -- like the lawsuits -- underscore one key aspect of the biotechnology business: no one party has all the key pieces to the puzzle.
"No one single firm has the monopoly on the germ plasm," Goldberg said. "No one single firm has the monopoly on the science."
H&amp;R Block Inc., citing problems facing the online service industry, said Wednesday it has decided not to complete the spin-off of the rest of its CompuServe online unit, at least for now.
The Kansas City, Mo.-based company, which owns 80 percent of CompuServe after spinning off part of the online service earlier this year, cited CompuServe's recent financial troubles and uncertainties facing the online industry.
Industry analysts said the problems reflect the changes rippling through the online industry but were also partly unique to Columbus, Ohio-based Compuserve, which has about 5.2 million subscribers, slightly more than half of them outside of the United States.
America Online Inc., the largest with more than 6 million subscribers, No. 2 Compuserve and Prodigy have all been hurt as users have gone directly to the Internet with lower-cost Internet access providers rather than online services.
Some analysts have said that the online services, which offer packages of specialised information as well as Internet access, may not survive in the long run, though the eventual shape of the online industry remains far from certain.
"A lot of the people are going to read this as the online market is at a crossroads and pretty shaky," said one analyst who follows the industry.
H&amp;R Block spun off 20 percent of CompuServe in April and had planned to distribute the rest to its shareholders.
But it said Wednesday that it has decided not to present the proposed spin-off of the rest of CompuServe to shareholders at its annual meeting scheduled for Sept. 11.
"The board continues to believe that a separation of CompuServe is in the best interests of H&amp;R Block shareholders and will continue to consider the matter," H&amp;R Block interim President Frank Salizzoni said.
CompuServe's stock has dropped from a high of $35.50 on its first day of trading to near $10 recently. The stock rose after Wednesday's announcement because new CompuServe shares still owned by H&amp;R Block will not come onto the market.
CompuServe added 93.75 cents to $13.25 on Nasdaq, while H&amp;R Block fell $2.125 to $25.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. America Online added 75 cents to $31.625, also on Nasdaq.
In July, CompuServe shocked Wall Street with a warning that it expected a loss for its first quarter ended July 31, its first as a publicly traded company.
The company blamed the high costs of introducing its new Wow! consumer online service and investing in an overhaul of its network infrastructure, as well as a decline in overall subscriber growth as cancellations outpaced new customers.
In response, CompuServe and H&amp;R Block were slapped with a shareholder lawsuit alleging they had misrepresented the online service's prospects in the prospectus for the stock offering.
When the company last week reported a first-quarter loss of $29.6 million, or 32 cents a share, it also warned investors that losses would continue for the second quarter ending in October.
H&amp;R Block, which is also the nation's largest consumer tax filing service, is likely to wait for the online industry to settle down before completing the spin-off, analysts said.
In addition to the losses, H&amp;R Block cited the planned introduction next month of new technology for CompuServe and its new Wow! service.
Meanwhile, America Online has had problems of its own, including price cuts to stay competitive with Internet access providers and an embarrassing 19-hour service blackout earlier this month. But analysts said that in contrast to CompuServe, America Online has continued to grow, though at a slower pace.
"The problems CompuServe is having are likely to benefit America Online in the next nine months," one analyst said.
Environmental warfare has broken out across the British construction industry, striking some of the biggest corporations as activists give up peaceful protests and seek to hit builders where it hurts -- in their profit margins.
Described by one British company as "eco-terrorism," it is seen as the new business risk of the 1990s.
Famous names like Tarmac Plc, Costain Group Plc and ARC, a unit of the conglomerate Hanson Plc, have all been targeted.
Activist groups are no longer seen by British companies as harmless, badly organised groups of students and hippies.
"You only have to see them in action at protests," said David Harding, a spokesman for ARC, a unit of Hanson which supplies construction materials.
"They walk around with mobile phones and camera equipment, they communicate and gather support for demos via the Internet -- we're talking about a highly sophisticated organisation."
One road protester, using the code name Steady Eddie, told the construction journal Building earlier this year: "If it comes down to full-scale economic warfare, we will aim to drive them out of business."
In addition to financial threats, companies say that "terror" tactics are used by the activists.
Costain's contract to build the controversial Newbury bypass, which runs through a conservation area, has led to violent protests delaying building. There have also been bomb threats, staff intimidation and picketing of Chief Executive Alan Lovell's home.
A Costain spokesman told Reuters: "We've had all sorts of protests at the head office and the chief executive's house. But it's when it gets to the (employee) families -- that it goes across the line."
Tactics used by some underground groups, including the cryptic Berkshire Wood Elves, which distributes leaflets with instructions on homemade explosives, are now the subject of a police investigation.
Larger activist groups include Earth First, The Land is Ours, Alarm UK and Road Alert.
The groups have targeted specific projects like the Newbury bypass and the M3 highway through Twyford Down in the southern county of Hampshire.
But they are also campaigning on broader issue such as stopping the government road-building programme and stopping out-of-town superstores, which they say create more traffic and pollution and damage local communities.
The government has slashed its road-building spending, but it has been seen primarily as economic rather than environmental, although protests may have contributed to the decision.
Graham Watts, chief executive of the Construction Industry Council, said, "I don't think many firms involved in tendering (bidding) for sensitive projects realise the impact environmental activity has on the cost of running a project.
"But they are more alert than they were three-four years ago. There's no doubt it's a big issue now."
He says the damage comes in two forms: "Tangible -- in the form of extra costs, additional security, threats to staff and the more intangible -- damage caused by negative publicity."
Watts said the cost of protesting can be heavy once the company is locked into a contract.
"I do often hear on the industry circuit of tales where the company tenders at low margins and the demonstrations which follow means they are running the project at a loss."
ARC says it's not just contractors in the front line that are affected but also suppliers like itself.
Its own quarries came under attack after it emerged that it may be a supplier for the Newbury bypass.
"It was called the 'First Battle of the Newbury bypass'," said ARC's Harding.
"We had 300 Earth First protestors invade and occupy our site. Hundreds of thousands of pounds (dollars) of damage was done in one day. Plus, there was the knock-on cost of lost production and extra security in future."
Simon Brown, analyst at investment bank UBS, said this new phenomenon has led to a change in the way the industry evaluates project risk.
"When talking to Tarmac about the M3 link (through Twyford Down) they made it fairly clear that their risk assessment methods have been changed and now involve a very clear environmental risk analysis."
Harding says others have done the same. "As a result of eco-terrorism, we are looking at controversial jobs more closely to see if the profit margins are wide enough to cover things like extra security."
For an industry already suffering from razor-thin margins, overcapacity and stagnant demand, eco-terrorism is the latest bizarre twist in the construction sector's tale of woe.
Final approval for Lloyd's of London's recovery plan edged closer Wednesday as it declared that over 90 percent of members had accepted a settlement offer aimed at securing the 300-year-old insurance market's future.
Lloyd's said it had been swamped by U.S. investors signing up for its recovery plan after a U.S. appeals court overturned a ruling that had threatened the insurance market's survival. By Wednesday afternoon, 66.7 percent of U.S. members had accepted.
"The level of acceptances speaks for itself. Members have made their views toward the reconstruction of Lloyd's abundantly clear," Lloyd's Chairman David Rowland said in a statement.
Earlier, a Lloyd's spokesman said acceptances from U.S. investors in the market, known as Names, had flooded in overnight.
Almost half of the 2,700 U.S. Names had until Tuesday night held off, with only 53 percent accepting by then.
This followed a decision by a federal appeals court in Baltimore Tuesday to overturn U.S. District Court Judge Robert Payne's ruling in Richmond, Va., Friday to allow U.S. Names more time to consider the plan.
Payne granted an injunction giving U.S. Names more time to consider the plan and ordered Lloyd's to provide further information by Sept. 23. On Tuesday, the panel of judges in Baltimore sent the case back to the lower court with orders to dismiss it.
Rowland said he acknowledged that many overseas members had deferred their acceptance in the light of the Virginia court judgment and the subsequent Baltimore ruling.
Over the last few days, evidence of support for the Lloyd's proposals among its 34,000 investors worldwide has grown. On Tuesday evening, acceptances totalled 82 percent, compared with 75 percent Saturday.
Wednesday's noon deadline for accepting the 3.2 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) recovery plan, under which Lloyd's proposes that Names pay to help reinsure billions of pounds in liabilities into a new company called Equitas, was extended to give all a chance to respond.
Rowland said Wednesday afternoon that under the circumstances it was "fair and proper" to exercise flexibility in pushing back the deadline for acceptances.
Lloyd's said that any formal, longer-term extension would be subject to a decision by its council at a Thursday meeting at which it would consider "the prospect of declaring the settlement offer acceptances unconditional."
This extension will give the market enough time to collect the convincing majority of acceptances, especially from U.S. Names, which it needs to prove its own solvency.
Lloyd's problems began in the 1980s when a destructive combination of negligent underwriting, poor investment advice and a sequence of natural disasters conspired to bring about losses of several billion pounds.
Long-standing Names were for the first time in their lives suddenly faced with the prospect of unlimited losses.
The market is due to submit figures to Britain's Department of Trade and Industry next week in an annual solvency test, and file with the U.S. Treasury and New York Insurance Department later next month.
Equitas may lift off in two weeks if all goes as planned. The recovery plan's success increasingly looks likely, but another challenge by U.S. Names has not been ruled out.
However, U.S. legal sources said overnight that while U.S. investors could in theory attempt to challenge Tuesday's order, it would be difficult to do so successfully.
Despite that, one U.S. Name, Kenneth Chiate, who is chief negotiator for a group known as the American Names Association, said he expected U.S. Names to appeal the Baltimore ruling.
All-cargo airline Polar Air Cargo is to take delivery of its first Boeing 747-200F series aircraft at Hong Kong's Kai Tak airport on December 13, an airline statement said.
The handover of the aircraft fresh from a 'C' check at Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company brings the number of B747s in the Polar fleet to 14, it added.
The carrier's chief executive officier, Ned Wallace said in the statement that Polar's fleet will increase by two to three 747's each year over the next five years. The next 747-200F is scheduled for delivery in first quarter 1997, he added.
Industry observers say Polar has a reputation for being a low cost airline using first generation former passenger 747 aircraft converted to carry around 100 tons of cargo.
The U.S. based carrier said it is anticipating a "significant jump" in its Asian operations if the U.S. Department of Transportation finalises a "tentative" decision awarding Polar the new U.S.-Japan all-cargo route.
Polar said the Department of Transportation's favourable evaluation was partly due to its proposal to increase using Anchorage, Alaska as a hub to trans-load traffic between Asia, South America, Europe and the U.S.
"The final award of the Japan route will mark the culmination of a three year strategy by Polar to create an effective global network of operations. As we extend our geographic reach, we enhance our competitiveness by giving our customers the market access and route flexibility they need," Wallace added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
China on Tuesday rolled out the memory of long-dead revolutionary leader Sun Yat-sen to strengthen its drive for reunification with Taiwan and defy what it sees as foreign forces trying to split the motherland.
The 130th anniversary of Sun's birth was an occasion for remembering his work for the cause of national unity, said the official People's Daily newspaper in a front-page editorial on a national hero revered by both Beijing and arch-rival Taipei.
Sun had firmly advocated the safeguarding of both China's sovereignty and unity, President Jiang Zemin told an anniversary meeting in Beijing's cavernous Great Hall of the People.
"It was always the unremitting pursuit of Mr Sun Yat-sen to achieve the return of Taiwan at an early date and to fulfil the great cause of the unification of the motherland," said the People's Daily, the mouthpiece of China's communist leadership.
While in Sun's day it had been Japanese occupation that kept the Taiwanese apart from their mainland brethren, Sun's unitary zeal was as relevant now as then, it said in an article that also hit out at foreign forces trying to divide China.
In fullsome tributes to Sun issued by the state media, officials rushed to appeal to Taiwan leaders to work for speedy reunification while condemning all moves toward independence.
Sun, who helped lead the 1911 revolution that overthrew China's imperial Qing dynasty, also founded the Nationalist Party which later fled to Taiwan after losing a bitter civil war against the communists in 1949.
While the Communist Party says it took up his banner of revolution after his death in 1925, Taipei's Nationalist leaders see themselves as Sun's true heirs.
The farmer's son turned doctor and radical has long been seen as a potential symbol of unity for politicians on either side of the Taiwan Strait who have walked very different revolutionary roads in the seven decades since his death.
Cross-strait relations have been sorely tested in recent years by Taipei's attempts to break out of the diplomatic isolation imposed by Beijing, which considers the island a rebel province and has vowed to invade, if it ever declares independence.
Separatism was still rampant in Taiwan, while forces both there and abroad still worked to split the Chinese nation, the People's Daily said.
"The activities to split the motherland of the Taiwan authorities have not ceased and forces for 'Taiwan independence' run wild on the island," it said.
"Internationally, forces still exist that interfere in our nation's internal affairs and support 'Taiwan Independence'."
While some Taiwanese politicians have long called for independence, the ruling Nationalist Party dissmisses Beijing allegations that it harbours a hidden "Two Chinas" agenda and says it is firmly committed to reunification some day.
Growing detente between Beijing and Taipei ran aground in June 1995, when Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui made a landmark unofficial visit to the United States, enraging Beijing.
Ties cooled further in March when Chinese war games and missile tests in the seas near Taiwan overshadowed the island's first direct presidential election, prompting Washington to send two aircraft carrier battlegroups to the area.
U.S. Navy intelligence specialists have concluded that the war games were rehearsals for a possible all-out invasion of the island in the future, a study made available on Monday showed.
While Chinese state media called on the populace to emulate Sun's revolutionary spirit, local authorities celebrated the anniversary with historical soirees and exhibitions.
Gold and silver stamps bearing his portrait would be issued nationwide soon, the official Xinhua news agency said.
China's former first lady Wang Guangmei auctioned her private antique collection on Tuesday and said she would use proceeds to help impoverished mothers.
Wang's collection, consisting of porcelain bowls and plates and a brush holder made of ivory dating back to the Qing (1644-1911) and Song (960-1279) dynasties, fetched 566,000 yuan ($68,000) at an auction at a Beijing hotel.
"My mother gave them to me ... They are priceless to me," Wang told Reuters.
She is the widow of former president Liu Shaoqi who died in prison during the chaotic 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.
The Sungari auction house had put the value of the antiques, some of which were Wang's dowry from her wealthy capitalist father, at up to 510,000 yuan ($61,000).
The collection was seized from Wang and eluded destruction by radical Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution. The authorities returned some of her collection when she was released from prison 11 years later.
"They were at Zhongnanhai or they would have all been smashed during the Cultural Revolution," Wang said. The Zhongnanhai compound in central Beijing still serves as home and office to many of China's leaders.
Liu, China's former president, was deposed during the Cultural Revolution and died in prison in 1969. He was rehabilitated posthumously in 1980.
Wang said she had deep emotional ties to the collection but these were outweighed by concerns for those living in poverty.
"I would be reluctant to part with what my mother left me without a reason ... (but) my heart aches even more when I see impoverished mothers," the former first lady said.
"It shouldn't be like this. The country led by our Communist Party cannot let families be this destitute," she said.
China has about 65 million people still struggling to get by with incomes under the official absolute poverty line of 530 yuan ($64) a year, officials say.
In September, Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin vowed to "gnaw the hard bone" of poverty by pouring funds into the drive to raise living standards for the poorest segment of the nation by the turn of the century.
The communists, who swept to power in 1949 on public resentment against widespread poverty and corruption, fear the widening gap between rich and poor today could spark social unrest and undermine its grip on power.
China says it reduced the number of people living in abject poverty by five million in 1995.
About 3,500 destitute mothers in western and southwestern China were expected to benefit from Tuesday's auction.
Proceeds would go to an anti-poverty fund headed by the former first lady to lend money to impoverished mothers to help them get started in farming, raise livestock or make handicrafts to earn a living in future, Wang said.
The fund would also provide education and give medical treatment to destitute mothers, she said.
U.S. laws governing the trillion dollar futures markets could be rocked by the Supreme Court's interpretation of the word "in" in a case to be argued Wednesday. But a legislative solution is in the offing.
At issue is a 1974 amendment to the Commodity Exchange Act, the primary law regulating trading of futures contracts on everything from wheat and corn to interest rates and electricity.  
Futures exchanges say a broad reading of the amendment would put them out of business, while major banks argue a narrow reading would force them to move vast operations out of the United States.
Whatever the outcome, Congressional action is expected next year. "It's certainly significant, but I suspect that at the end of the day, legislation will overtake this," said Howard Schneider, former Commodity Futures Trading Commission general counsel.  
When Congress expanded the commodity act in 1974 to cover futures on non-agricultural commodities and created the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to police the markets, some big banks objected.
They argued the law should not apply to trading of foreign currency, government securities and similiar items already flourishing among banks and securities firms.
The Treasury Department agreed and in a letter to Congress suggested an amendment to the law that became known as the Treasury Amendment.  
The amendment says "transactions in" foreign currency, security warrants, repurchase options, government securities and a few other items are exempt from the Commodity Exchange Act unless they involve sale for future delivery conducted "on a board of trade."
The banks continued to trade foreign currencies unimpeded but the CFTC began to encounter a new problem. Unscrupulous "bucket shops" that peddled off-exchange commodity contracts to rip off unsuspecting investors were expanding into foreign currency schemes.  
The CFTC shut down the forex shops but lawyers for the shops argued forex investment contracts should be considered transactions "in" foreign currency and exempt from CFTC rules.
Lower federal courts took up the issue but reached conflicting conclusions. Some said "transactions in foreign currency" exempted dealings only with actual currencies, not derivatives on the currencies like futures and options. Others decided that "in" exempted all trading involving currencies.
The Supreme Court will likely resolve that conflict in Wednesday's case concerning William Dunn, the manager of a $180 million hedge fund investing in foreign currencies.  
In November, 1993, Dunn told his investors he had lost $95 million. The CFTC soon charged Dunn with fraud under the Commodity Exchange Act. A lower court agreed.
Asking the Supreme Court to uphold that decision, CFTC lawyers argue that Congress would have used the word "involving" rather than "in" if it had wanted to exempt forex derivatives.
But Dunn's lawyers and four banks that dealt with his fund maintain that the CFTC has no jurisdiction to prosecute under the commodity act.  
Affirming the earlier decision would undermine the $40 billion a day global currency market by subjecting it to unworkable regulation, the banks said. And Dunn, if guilty of any misconduct, could be prosecuted under wire fraud or securities laws, the banks said.
At the other extreme, the Chicago futures exchanges appear terrified the court will strike down the lower court ruling.  
Chicago Board of Trade, in an amicus brief written in part by Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel in the Whitewater investigation, warned that a broad reading of the exemption would create havoc, allowing unregulated dealings in all kinds of futures contracts now traded on exchanges.
"The idea that someone could clone the Board of Trade's principal products, trade them off-exchange and not be subject to any regulation is pretty darn troublesome," Mark Young, another exchange attorney, said.
A ruling is not expected for months, but the banks and exchanges will have to continue their struggle in the legislative venue almost immediately.
Congress could resolve the dispute through legislation, which would render the decision moot. One bill was introduced in the last Congress to amend the Treasury Amendment and Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) has said he will likely offer a new bill early next year.
-- 202-898-8312
PrimeCo, the mobile telephone venture owned by AirTouch Communications Inc and three regional Bells, expects a tougher fight with Sprint Corp in the wireless market than with AT&amp;T Corp .
PrimeCo on Tuesday launched Personal Communications Services (PCS) in 16 cities, offering tiny phones with more features, longer battery life and clearer sound than cellular.
"With AT&amp;T we believe we have a clearly discernible quality advantage, with Sprint..we felt it was important to be to market first," chief executive Ben Scott told Reuters.  
PrimeCo and Sprint both use the same technology, called code division multiple access (CDMA), so it would be much harder to claim a quality advantage, Scott said.
"They (Sprint) have a good brand for long distance, it remains to be seen whether we can have a better brand for wireless services," Scott said.
AT&amp;T, Sprint and Primeco -- owned by Bell Atlantic Corp, NYNEX Corp, U S West Inc as well as AirTouch -- are the only three firms which spent enough on Federal PCS licenses in 1995 to build national networks.  
While every PCS operator starting up will make easy comparisons with analog cellular, the real fights will begin in a year or two when there are two or three PCS operators and two digital cellular operators in every market, analysts said.
The better the brand, the less any competitor will have to resort to cutting prices, according to business models. Winning the marketing war will be at least as important as the technical wizardry that allows the phones to work.  
By mid 1997, Scott expects PrimeCo will be spending about as much on advertising as AT&amp;T Corp does. ATT doesnt break out its ad spending, but is thought by analysts to spend at least $100 million a year.
"As an alliance our spending will be very competitive with those levels (of AT&amp;T)," he said.
PrimeCo has already spent $1 billion building its PCS network, on top of $1.1 billion for licenses. When the network is complete the total bill may reach $3.6 billion.  
Nevertheless, Scott said PrimeCo is on target to reach a breakeven on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 1999.
AT&amp;T Corp in October launched Digital PCS, which does not use PCS license frequencies but a digital version of cellular services. However it does offer features similar to PCS, including call waiting, voicemail and long battery life.
AT&amp;T will start offerings its real PCS service next year.
Arcane arguments continue to rage in the industry about which of the myriad technical standards is best, but all agree that PCS in all its forms is far better than analog cellular, which is what the vast majority of U.S. users still have.
American Personal Communications, an affiliate of Sprint, was the first to offer PCS in the country, starting last November with a service in Washington and Baltimore.
However this service uses time division multiple access (TDMA), a technology which is currently incompatible with the CDMA network Sprint plans to build elsewhere across the country with its cable TV partners.
-- New York Newsroom 212 859 1610
International Business Machines Corp unveiled several new partnerships as part of an all-encompassing strategy unveiled at a session on electronic commerce, but said it will make money from these ventures the "old fashioned" way - through hardware, software, and services.
IBM announced a wide array of partnerships, ranging from retailers to petroleum companies to insurance companies to a utility, all developing applications for conducting business over corporate computer networks and the Internet.  
"We feel very, very good about the Internet as a business and about where we are going," said Irving Wladwasky-Berger, the general manager of IBM's Internet division, at a press conference. The Internet unit was formed less than one year ago and has become one of the key focal points at IBM.
IBM is helping customers develop a wide range of electronic commerce applications, including an electronic trading system, an Internet retailing outlet, and a service for buying electrical power over networks. Revenues, however, will come from the usual sources of hardware, software and services as it fuels demand for its products and services.  
"We will continue to make money the 'old-fashioned' way, by selling a lot more systems, software, services and solutions," Wladawsky-Berger said. "By leveraging our core businesses, we can sell more of what we are good at."
He was not more specific about what kind of financial opportunity corporate networks and the Internet represent for IBM.
But IBM expects the worldwide information technology industry to grow to $1.2 trillion, from $800 billion, in the next four years, with 60 percent of that growth driven by network computing, he said.  
One novel partnership IBM announced Tuesday was a project with Siemens AG for the electric utility industry.
IBM and Siemens Power Systems Control announced a service to let electric utilities use computer networks, including the Internet, to sell excess power transmission capacity. Pacific Gas and Electric Co is the first customer.
IBM also announced 13 additional new retailers who are joining its Internet shopping mall, called World Avenue, such as Gottschalk's and Hudson Bay, Avante Jewelry and others. Consumers can purchase goods quickly and securely via the World Avenue service on the World Wide Web.  
IBM also announced PetroConnect, a network-based service for the petroleum industry, with digital databases, maps, surveys, well logs, seismic data and other geographical and geological data, for all segments of the industry.
In another industry-specific application, IBM and partner Charles Schwab Inc demonstrated its electronic trading system, called e.schwab, which lets customers request quotes, check account balances and execute trades on their Internet Web site, which runs on IBM's SP2 supercomputers.
IBM also touted Lotus's Domino software, which is the next version of Lotus Notes designed using Internet technology.  
IBM said that Domino is one of the "jewels in its crown," that will be targeting the Web server software market, which Forrester Research predicts will be $9 billion by 1999.
Jeff Papows, the president of Lotus Development, made several jabs at both Microsoft Corp and Netscape Communications Corp and their initial emphasis on the browser wars, but said the battle is moving to groupware.
Papows quoted Netscape's co-founder Marc Andreessen as saying that in 1997 the big war will be over groupware and e-mail. "We think Marc is right," Papows said, adding that whether they can take those markets by storm is the question.
Underdog Boeing Co., pitted against the nation's top two defence contractors, hopes to emerge as one of the winners next week when the Pentagon narrows the field to two competitors for the biggest weapons project of the early 21st century.
Boeing, Lockheed Martin Corp. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. are each leading teams bidding on a Pentagon contract to build 3,000 new joint strike fighters -- a deal that could be worth more than $170 billion over the next two decades.
Defence officials will announce on Nov. 18 the results of a hotly contested "down select" that will eliminate one of the three teams and leave the remaining bidders to build prototypes for a "flyoff" and final decision in fiscal year 2001.
"We have identified the joint strike fighter as our No. 1 new business opportunity," said Lee Whitney, a spokesman for Lockheed Martin, the nation's biggest defence contractor. "We have focused resources from throughout the corporation on our configuration and all the effort necessary to emerge as the winner."
The contract also is regarded as crucial for No. 2 McDonnell Douglas Corp., which recently announced its intention to reduce its commercial aviation efforts.
"Winning is more critical to Lockheed and McDonnell than it is to Boeing," said analyst Paul Nisbet of JSA Research.
But, he said, Boeing's entry was aggressive, promising up to 95 percent commonality among the three versions of the jet and a "flyaway" cost averaging less than $30 million for each plane, excluding billions in research and development.
"I think they're still viewed as being the dark horse, but if I really had to bet some money, I'd bet that Lockheed Martin is going to be the loser," Nisbet said. "They already have two-thirds of the F-22, and the other two proposals are at least as good or even better."
The joint strike fighter is aimed at cutting costs by serving the needs of the Air Force, Marines, Navy and the British Royal Navy with a single common airframe.
Some within the Pentagon chafe at the concept of a multi-purpose jet design with three versions -- including advanced air-to-ground strike capability for the Air Force and vertical "hover" landing capability for the Marines.
But the project appears to have the momentum to carry it forward into the 21st century, when it would replace four existing fighters after delivery begins in fiscal 2008.
In addition to the 3,000 jets being ordered by the four services -- including more than 2,000 for the Air Force -- industry executives believe another 1,000 could be sold for export to U.S. allies.
While Boeing has major roles in current projects, including the B-2 bomber and F-22 fighter, the Seattle-based company, best known for its commercial airliners, has not been the prime contractor on a tactical military jet since the Army's P-26 "Peashooter" of the 1930s.
But analysts say the company's innovative design for the joint strike fighter, which includes one engine type and one wing for all three versions, may well earn it a place among the two finalists.
"Boeing's design became much more credibly viewed because they're leveraging their derivative technologies that they've built up over years of commercial production," said Nick Heymann, an analyst at Natwest Securities.
Boeing has signalled its intention to remain a major player in the military arena with its planned purchase of Rockwell International Corp. 's defence and space properties for $3.2 billion.
"We've come forward with a very innovative solution," Boeing defence and space President Jerry King said. "The Pentagon is almost obligated to give us an opportunity to demonstrate that we can in fact deliver what we've committed to."
The Czech government's tourism office on Wednesday forecast record income from foreign visits in 1996, as "Golden Prague" and its environs put a silver lining in otherwise dreary Czech trade figures.
Income from foreign visitors, crucial in stemming the Czech current account deficit, could surge to top $3.5 billion this year, up from a record $2.87 billion in 1995, said director Jiri Cech of the Economics Ministry's tourism division.
He said 1996 record revenue from tourism in the Czech Republic, which has soared since Communist rule there ended in 1989, would range "from $3.2 to $3.5 billion or more".
The Czech National Bank balance of payment figures for the first half of the year -- which will give clearer picture of the balance of services -- are expected to be released in the first half of September.
The tourism component of the first quarter balance of payments showed a net inflow of $261 million with total tourism receipts of $581 million, and analysts have forecast first half total tourism revenues at about $1.6 billion.
The overall current account however posted a $505 million deficit in the first quarter, mostly due to a ballooning merchandise trade deficit.
The trade deficit in goods has accelerated in recent months, and a record gap in July of 16.4 billion crowns ($627 million) raised the seven-month 1996 deficit to 85.3 billion crowns ($3.26 billion).
Economists are forecasting the 1996 current account deficit at between five to six percent of gross domestic product, compared with about four percent last year.
But just in the first half of the year, record tourist visits to the country, and especially to the historical centre of the capital Prague where tourists often outnumber residents in the high season, topped most expectations.
The overall number of tourist visits to the country was up 11.6 percent in the first half, year-on-year, to 44.7 million and airport arrivals were up 48.4 percent to 7.3 million, according to the Czech Statistical Bureau.
Czech foreign travel abroad rose 10.2 percent in the first half of the year to 4.3 million visits abroad for a country of 10.4 million residents. Czechs spent $320 million abroad in the first quarter.
Independent analysts are forecasting a surplus in the Czech balance of services, including tourism of $1.8 to $2.0 billion this year. ($1=26.17 Czech Crowns)
Novell Inc. said Tuesday it will license one of its key technologies to other software companies in a move to expand its sources of revenue.
Novell, which publishes computer networking programs, wants to establish the technology, Novell Directory Services, as a software foundation for letting people easily find others on the Internet and for sharing information.
The move is part of Orem, Utah-based Novell's strategy to adapt its corporate networking software to control the flow of information through global networks, company executives said.
"The goal is to get into electronic commerce," said Michael Simpson, director of marketing of Novell's Internet infrastructure division. "We believe a common infrastructure is necessary and we will provide it."
Simpson compared the variety of computer networks and software standards to the early days of the telephone industry, when a customer of one telephone company could not call someone who was a customer of another company.
Novell Directory Services, also known as NDS, would help users in huge corporate or public computer networks reach others without knowing arcane electronic addresses.
Adapted for the Internet, the technology also would let users communicate with others regardless of computer or software standards, Novell said.
Novell plans to license the technology to networking software companies, Internet service providers and online services. Novell and other software companies would make money by writing computer programs that take advantage of the universal directory, the company said.
Tom Arthur, a Novell vice president, declined to say how much Novell expects to make from the move, but said it would see a significant boost by the middle of 1997.
He also declined to say which companies would license NDS, but said work is being done to adapt it to run on computers using networking software from Sun Microsystems Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
For the past two year, Novell has been trying to recover from a failed strategy of taking on Microsoft Corp., its biggest rival, in the word processor and spreadsheet business.
Novell dumped its application business by selling its WordPerfect Corp. unit earlier this year. But the company has had a tough time rebuilding its business around NetWare, its flagship networking product.
Microsoft has been chipping away at NetWare's market share with its rival offering, Windows NT.
Novell's stock edged down 12.5 cents to $10.50 on Nasdaq.
The head of the Czech Republic's largest bank is on a crusade to clean up the emerging post-communist banking sector from within and, he hopes, from a seat in the Senate.
Dr Richard Salzmann, the bow-tied president of Komercni Banka, says the Czech banking system is fundamentally sound and getting stronger despite a handful of recent failures among smaller institutions.
But, he says, the whole Czech economy needed a dose of "fairness and transparency" to clean up old habits of secrecy and ensure banks are not run as private fiefdoms.
He is standing for a seat in the newly-established Czech Senate at elections in November, saying he wants to help bring back "good manners" to the banking industry and restore the reputation of the Czech finance sector.
Better risk management is crucial, according to Salzmann.
He said that Komercni and the three other large banks -- which comprise about 80 percent of all Czech banking activity -- had bolstered their reserves to meet Western banking standards, and had developed more effective risk management techniques.
"As concerns "The Big Four', (the situation) is, for sure, very good, because all these big four banks in the last years have built up huge reserves," Salzmann said during a visit to the PGA Czech Open golf tournament here recently.
"It's true that we have an unusually high proportion of risky loans in our portfolios, which is partially inherited from the past. Other (bad loans) were made in this era of euphoria, after the (1989 revolution ending Communism)."
He said from branches to front office, Komercni has stepped up risk management techniques which have now been also adopted by Ceska Sporitelna,  Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka, and Investicni a Postovni Banka -- the others in "The Big Four".
"Now we are in the final stage when we are building a central risk assessment department, which supervises all kinds of risks, not only from credit but also from the capital market operations and from the foreign operations."
FAILURES EXPOSE PROBLEMS
Salzmann said he believed the recent failure of Kreditni Banka a.s., a medium-sized bank which became the eighth to shut in the post-communist era, stemmed, like others before it, from greed and naivete.
"I would blame mostly the founders of the banks, because they provided for themselves various kinds of privileges. They were, in most cases in my opinion, those who did not come with the intention to rob the money and disappear or something like that, I don't say that," Salzmann contended.
"But many of them founded the bank with false ideas that (their) bank would be able to provide themselves with easier conditions and lower prices for money for their internal use."
Salzmann said these bad lending practices spiraled until the banks were forced to raise their rates and tighten lending conditions for regular customers.
"This snowballed from the naivete at the beginning," he said.
Kreditni suffered losses reportedly at more than 10 billion Czech crowns ($381.1 million) through a series of large loan defaults and on August 8 the central bank withdrew its banking licence.
The local press has been ripe with allegations of mismanagement and murky loan operations at many of the failed institutions, but criminal investigations have yet to produce any charges.
Officials from Kreditni Banka have refused to comment on reasons for its failure, but its controlling shareholder, the large insurer Ceska Pojistovna, chalked it up simply to bad decisions by bank management on loans and loan guarantees.
Salzmann, 67, said problems in the banking system were part of a bigger problem of honesty and fairness throughout the economy.
He said that if elected, he would push to expand the enforcement power of regulators to police dubious practices in banks, investment funds, and on the capital market, which is consistently hampered by charges of insider trading.
BANKER SEEKS POLITICAL PLATFORM
"My (candidacy), is to bring to this freshly-introduced capitalism more decency...a better field for good business," said Salzmann.
The erudite banker, who often recalls the days of thriving Czech capitalism between wars, said he would work in the Senate to establish an independent capital market watchdog like the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Salzmann resigned as the chairman of the Prague Stock Exchange earlier this year -- a mostly honorary position -- to allow his friend and party colleague Tomas Jezek to take over as a full-time, hands-on leader of the bourse.
Both Jezek and Salzmann will run for the Senate in separate constituencies, and both support starting up a market-supported watchdog beefed up from the currently understaffed and underfunded Finance Ministry regulation department.
But Salzmann, who said he cannot by contract retire from the bank for at least one more year, rejects charges that his membership in the Senate while heading the country's largest banking group would constitute a conflict of interest. There is no legal requirement in the Czech Republic for legislators to suspend their business interests when they enter parliament.
Salzmann insists he would never use his Senate seat to gain advantages for his bank, but he makes no apologies about using his seat to try to improve the banking and business environment overall.
"I will support all such measures to bring more fairness, decency, good manners, transparency, all those principals which are, of course, favourable for the banks. So in that sense I will be perhaps in a conflict of interest," Salzmann said.
When asked if that meant he would support laws which would separate the banks and their investment arms, many of which control major chunks of the Czech economy -- like at Komercni Banka -- Salzmann answered:
"Yes, transparency, mandatory transparency." ($1=26.24 Czech Crown)
"Chainsaw Al" Albert Dunlap, the chief executive of Sunbeam Corp aiming to halve his workforce and add $1 billion in sales, ran into Wall Street skepticism.
The company's shares have been riding high, up more than 100 percent since Dunlap's appointment as Sunbeam CEO last summer, but dropped 1/2 to 25-1/4 on Tuesday after Dunlap said he would cut 6,000 jobs in restructuring the appliance group.
"He's pulled off some amazing turnarounds," said Chapman Co analyst Daniel Noll. "But I'm a little skeptical."  
"I think the stock's a little ahead of itself," Noll said.
Dunlap, author of a current best-selling book, "Mean Business: How I Save Bad Companies And Make Good Companies Great", is credited with turning around Scott Paper Co and Lily-Tulip Co. He fiercely cuts staff and lifts stock values.
In addition to the "Chainsaw Al" moniker, the 59-year-old executive has also been dubbed "Darth Vader".
On Tuesday, Dunlap said he would halve to 6,000 the worldwide staff of Sunbeam, eliminate dozens of factories, regional adminstrative offices and warehouses, and stop making more than 85 percent of Sunbeam's 11,500 products.  
He also promised to sell Sunbeam's furniture business, open fresh sales avenues such as outlet stores, strike overseas marketing alliances, and eliminate all debt by next year. The company might launch share buybacks or make acquisitions once debt is paid off, he said.
Sales will double by 1999 to $2 billion, he said.
"It will be vintage Dunlap," Dunlap said in a conference call with institutional investors and analysts.
Analysts pressed Dunlap on specifics for doubling sales and when and with whom Sunbeam would align itself.  
Dunlap declined to identify potential deal partners but said new products, including many designed for non-U.S. markets, would along with other steps yield 20 percent or better year-over-year revenue growth.
"It takes some length of faith from us," analyst Scott Grant of Oppenheimer said during the conference call.
Other analysts questioned whether Dunlap's reliance on outsourcing -- hiring other manufacturers to make Sunbeam and Oster products -- was feasible as the company will have only eight factories to make its 1,500 remaining products.
The restructuring was very ambitious, involving deeper staff cuts, consolidation and tougher goals than had been expected since Dunlap began firing Sunbeam executives last July, analysts said.
"'Chainsaw Al' is a pussycat name for you," analyst Andrew Shore of Paine Webber told Dunlap. "If you pull this off, you should be called 'Nuclear Al'."
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713
World yeast and spices giant Burns Philp &amp; Co Ltd announced a hefty loss for the 1995/96 year on Wednesday after taking some heavy hits in a vicious U.S. price war and Asian expansion.
Burns Philp, the western world's largest fresh bakers' yeast maker and second largest spice maker, posted a net loss of A$61.8 million (US$48.8 million) for the year to June 30.
This came after abnormal losses of A$136.6 million, due largely to rationalisation of its U.S. operations and other costs linked to a spice price war with the world's largest spice maker, McCormick &amp; Co Inc of the United States.
Burns Philp managing director Ian Clack said the tussle for market share in the United States appeared to have abated, but the cost of paying supermarkets for premium shelf space during the two-year war had to be written off.
The writing off of these costs, known as slotting contracts, made up A$33.9 million of the abnormal losses.
"Recent slotting contracts have been negotiated with improved margins, indicating that market conditions are returning to a more acceptable level," Clack said.
He said Burns Philp had increased its U.S. spices market share by one percentage point to 16 percent after the war while McCormick's share had risen 1.5 points to 34 percent. Other U.S. spice makers lost market share, he said.
Burns Philp has 16 percent of the western world's yeast market and seven percent of its spice market.
Costs incurred during an Asian expansion also boosted Burns Philp's losses.
"The result was also affected by the cost of expanding our presence in Asia together with plant upgrade costs in China and India," Clack said.
The result surprised brokers and analysts, who had expected large abnormal losses but were disappointed by a lower pre-abnormals net profit as well.
Net profit before abnormal items fell to A$74.8 million, down from the A$104.1 million posted in 1994/95 and down on most analysts' forecasts of about A$80 million.
Burns Philp's decision not to post a final dividend also upset investors.
"A woeful result and passing their dividend hasn't helped," said Jim Tredenick, senior dealer at broking house Nevitts Ltd.
Burns Philp's share price closed down 10 cents at A$1.95.
Analysts also said there may be more abnormal losses to come, particularly in the value of intangibles like goodwill.
"It was a bad result...the issue is whether or not they've completely taken the knife to intangible valuations, that's the area where there could be some further writedowns," one Sydney analyst said.
"They didn't take much off the intangibles. That (the A$30.7 million of intangible writedowns) hardly made a dent in it," another Sydney analyst said.
Clack said the company had taken the most conservative measure of intangible values it could and did not expect any more abnormal losses in the current year.
He said an earnings turnaround was possible in 1996/97. "In most markets we are seeing some improvement in the first two months of the year. There's been an improvement in demand, particularly in the North American markets." (A$1 = 79 U.S. cents)
Australia's second largest telephone carrier Optus Communications rang up its first annual profit on Wednesday and is on track for its sharemarket float by the end of the year.
Optus, established at the start of 1992 to compete with Australia's main telephone carrier, state-owned Telstra Corp, reported a pre-tax profit of A$60.3 million (US$47.64 million) in the year to June 30, 1996.
This compares with a loss of A$17.0 million in 1994/95.
"After a tremendous effort during its first few years, Optus is now in a very strong position to capitalise on the many opportunities presented by the rapidly growing telecommunications industry," chief executive officer Zygmunt Switkowski said in a statement.
The profit was within expectations. Telecommunications analysts forecast Optus to deliver a profit before abnormals of between A$55 million and A$65 million.
"I don't think the market will be disappointed," said one Sydney-based analyst. "I think the revenue is a little bit down on what they were talking about."
The results reflected strong revenue growth of 36 percent to A$1.94 billion in 1995/96, with high revenue increases from its three main businesses of mobile telephones, long-distance calls and services to the corporate and government sector, chief operating officer Phil Jacobs said on Wednesday.
Optus, 24.5 percent owned each by U.S. BellSouth Corp and Britain's Cable and Wireless Plc, said in February it expected to achieve A$2.0 billion in revenue in 1995/96.
The Sydney-based group is still expected to make its sharemarket debut by the end of 1996, Switkowski said.
"The float's planned to occur this side of Christmas and the prospectus is progressing to plan, but it is not done," he told reporters after the results anouncement.
The float is expected to raise around A$1.5 billion, making it the largest telecommunications company to list on the Australian Stock Exchange, with up to 40 percent of the company shares to be listed.
Optus will later be joined by Telstra on the stock exchange.
The Australian government plans to raise A$8.0 billion from the sale of one-third of Telstra in 1997/98, which will be just after full deregulation of Australia's telecommunications industry on July 11, 1997.
Despite chalking up its first annual profit, Optus incurred increased losses from its 46.5 percent-owned pay television and local telephone call operator Optus Vision.
Optus said its share of losses from Optus Vision was A$74.0 million, which were mainly due to the start-up of the offshoot, which is spending A$3.0 billion rolling out its nationwide fibre optic cable network to provide pay TV and telephone services.
Optus Vision, which includes Australia's richest man Kerry Packer amongst its shareholders, reported a loss of A$1.54 million in 1994/95, in its first year of operation. The company has not announced its 1995/96 results.
Switkowski was coy about 1996/97 forecasts. Optus Communications was completing its prospectus for the sharemarket float, which would contain revenue and profit forecasts.
However, Switkowski predicted that revenue from its mobile telephone business would exceed revenues from its long-distance calls due to strong local demand, as Australia has one of the highest penetration rates for mobile phones in the world.
(A$1 = US$0.79)
Leading data networking stocks settled back for a round of profit-taking Tuesday after the strong price gains of recent weeks, securities analysts said.
After opening at a 52-week high of 67, industry flagship Cisco Systems Inc retreated throughout the day and was trading off 1-3/8 to 65-1/8.
Similarly, Cabletron Systems Inc and 3Com Corp began to fall immediately after Tuesday's opening. By mid-afternon, Cabletron had lost 1-1/8 to 67-3/4, while 3Com was down 2 to 70-1/8.
Chips stocks, especially those of PC-related manufacturers, posted across-the-board gains Tuesday after the release of a monthly industry report showing robust demand in the North American semiconductor market.
Also showing strength in early trading were stocks of companies that make programmable logic devices, including Altera Corp Lattice Semiconductor Corp and Xilinx Inc.  
"I think most of the upside is still coming from the PC industry," said Nimal Vallipuram, a Bear Stearns chip analyst. "I dont think this is information for an industry turnaround."
The upswing in the industry ratio of chip bookings to orders rose to 1.10 in October from 0.98 in September, while expected to a degree, surprised analysts by its extent.
The report was largely a sign of general industry health, as the ratio offers little insight into specific segments.
Still, it lifted commodity chipmakers, which had stumbled badly recently, including Motorola Inc, up 1-1/8 to 51-1/8 and Texas Instruments Inc, up 1/2 to 56-1/2.  
Microprocessor giant and industry flagship Intel Corp rose 1-1/4 to 125-1/8, while PC graphics suppliers Chips and Technologies Inc swelled 2 to 26-3/8 and Trident Microsystems Inc gained 1-1/4 to 22-1/8.
"The magnitude of the improvement was a surprise, but Wall Street has been expecting an improvement," said Mona Eraiba, semiconductor analysts at Gruntal &amp; Co.
Among Eraiba's favorites are market niche players such as VLSI Technology Inc, up 1-1/16 Tuesday to 21-1/8, National Semiconductor Corp, which nudged up only 1/8 to 22-5/8 and Lattice, up 5/16 to 40-1/4.
She also cited Motorola and Texas Instruments, which she considers to have relative upside potential based on the shellacking their stocks have taken in recent quarters.
Vallipuram recommends Intel and Adaptec Inc, which makes PC interconnection devices. He also favors Xilinx and Altera, both up 7/8 to 41-1/4 and 70-3/8, respectively.
Reflecting broad sector strength, the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index .SOXX of 16 leading chip stocks gained nearly five points in early trading. At 1039 EST/1539 GMT, the index stood at 3.32, up 1.56 percent on the day with 12 stocks posting gains, two losing ground and two unchanged.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
Jilted once, financial software company Intuit Inc appears unlikely to return to the merger altar any time soon.
Buyout speculation has swirled around Intuit since May 1995, when Microsoft Corp. dumped its plans to buy the maker of popular personal finance software like Quicken and TurboTax. Last week, Intuit shares surged again on speculation American Express Co. was about to make an offer.  
However, many industry analysts believe such a deal is not in Intuit's future, adding the best way for Intuit to grow is to attract as many partners as it can to set up online banking services.
"My personal belief is that Intuit is best able to maximize its value on its own," said David Farina, an analyst at William Blair.
Intuit's key asset is Quicken, a program that helps computer users track checkbook balances, check stock portfolios, pay bills, plan monthly budgets and lay out retirement plans.  
The company depends on partnerships with dozens of banks and brokerages to provide online links between customers' personal computers and their accounts.
Intuit would turn off most of its partners if it were acquired by a big financial partner, Scott Cook, Intuit's chairman, insists.
"We would never become a captive of one financial institution or a small group of financial institutions," Cook told a group of investors in Florida on Friday.  
Still, some analysts questioned whether Intuit has the marketing and financial muscle to compete on its own against Microsoft for long.
Microsoft, the world's biggest personal computer software company, is spending a big chunk of its $2 billion research and development budget on financial software and online banking services provided through the Internet.
Although Intuit still controls 70 percent of the market for personal financial software, Microsoft is gaining.  
Intuit also needs capital to expand into new area, such as giving online investment advice, said Karen Epper, an analyst at Forrester Research, a market researcher. Such forays will likely hurt profits, she said.
"They might get dinged on their stock price, but this area is more in line with the consumer marketing business model they have," Epper said.
It could be years, however, before Intuit's push into new areas could pay off, Epper said.
Intuit said in September it expects lower revenue growth in the current fiscal year ending July 1997.  
The company blamed a slow market for consumer software. Some of the shortfall is because of one-time suitor Microsoft, analysts said.
In October 1994, Microsoft stunned Wall Street by offering to buy Intuit for more than $1 billion, the biggest acquisition attempt in the software industry at the time.
Microsoft was willing to pay that huge sum to turn Quicken into a gateway for online banking services, an industry that's expected to rival brick-and-mortar retail banking in revenue in the next ten years.  
Microsoft backed out of the deal in May 1995, however, when the Justice Department said it would sue Microsoft on antitrust grounds if it pursued the transaction.
Since then, Microsoft has spent hundreds of millions beefing up its rival Microsoft Money financial management program. The company also set up a division to sell networking and Internet software to banks.
To counter Microsoft's redoubled efforts, Intuit set up a business to process online transactions -- such as bill payments and account transfers -- between banks and depositors. Some investors saw the unit, Intuit Services Corp., as a promising source of revenue.
In September, however, Intuit sold the unit to rival Checkfree Corp., partly because it did not have the expertise to handle huge volumes of transactions.
Banks also were reluctant to have Intuit sit between them and their depositors, Epper said. Most banks preferred to reach their customers through the Internet instead of Intuit's proprietary network.
"Intuit is staring down the barrel of a gun, and that gun is the Internet, which is making financial management easier," Epper said.
It could be a while before Intuit outlines a new strategy for growing its business, analysts said.
Meanwhile, there may be more bouts of wishful thinking about an acquisition, they said.
British spirits, pubs and fast food outlet group Allied Domecq on Tuesday reported a fall in annual profits but effectively ruled out a demerger of its spirits business as a solution to its problems.
Allied chairman Sir Christopher Hogg said in a statement the company was "clear that the best way to improve shareholder value is to improve operating performance and that this should be our overriding objective for the foreseeable future."
Costs of a demerger, which the market had hoped was on the cards, would have been "very, very expensive," chief executive Tony Hales said in an interview with Reuters Financial Television.
It would have distracted management for at least 12 months, he said, adding that there was "no obvious shareholder value to be unlocked."
Full-year pretax profits to August before exceptionals slipped to 575 million pounds ($950.4 million) from 645 million previously but were within analyst forecasts of between 560 and 581 million.
Allied Domecq said exceptional losses for the year totalled 311 million pounds, the largest part of which was on the 205 mllion pound sale of its 50 percent stake in brewer Carlsberg-Tetley to Bass in August.
Allied paid out a total dividend of 23.59 pence a share, unchanged from the year ending March 1995, which was used as a comparison because of a change to its accounting period.
"The figures were very much in line with expectations. Some people had been worried the dividend may be cut but it has been maintained and that's positive," one analyst said.
Allied's shares had shed 15 pence to 453 pence by 1330 GMT after touching a low of 451 pence.
"The divisions have gone in the direction expected but if you were someone who wanted action -- a demerger or management change -- you haven't got either and there will be some disappointment," the analyst said.
But Hales stressed in the interview that there was "a lot we can do in terms of improving performance."
The spirits and wines business could benefit from increasing marketing, improving relations with customers, taking more costs out and improving returns on capital employed, he said.
In the retail sector, expansion in the pub business and cost cutting should push business forward, he added.
The company said that the cost of tackling overstocking of U.S. spirits was the main factor in a 14 percent fall in year trading profits in the group's spirits business.
It said it was "determined to increase prices (in spirits and wines) where we can," adding that strong brands and market leadership were the best basis for achieving this.
But it warned that the trading environment "may offer little prospect of improvement."
The group's retailing business, which includes pubs and fast food outlets, saw underlying profits rise by four percent during the year and Allied said it saw further opportunities for developing its leading pub brands.
"The important thing now is to get the businesses trading well," said one sector analyst who declined to be named.
Some analysts were sceptical, however, that Allied could achieve its goals.
"They are trying to do the right things, but they have poor raw material," the sector analyst said. ($1=.6050 Pound)
Taiwanese business leader Kao Ching-yuan on Wednesday urged Beijing to resume talks with Taiwan, saying the island's investors would lose confidence in China if political friction impeded relations.
"If the relations between the two sides are kept at a low ebb due to political and ideological problems... Taiwanese businessmen will lose confidence because of higher risks," said Kao, vice-chairman of President Enterprises, Taiwan's biggest investor in China.
Chinese Vice-Premier Li Lanqing earlier told the same seminar in Beijing no one could stand in the way of direct trade and transport links between China and Taiwan which have been banned by the island since 1949.
Kao is heading a delegation of nearly 80 prominent Taiwanese business leaders and politicians who arrived in Beijing on Tuesday for a high-profile visit. Taiwanese economic officials are visiting in a private capacity.
Kao called for the resumption of talks suspended last year after Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui made a landmark trip to the United States. Beijing regards Taiwan as a rebel province and has sought to push the island into diplomatic isolation.
"I would like to suggest here... that the two sides resume as soon as possible talks on trade and investment," Kao said.
Taiwanese newspapers said Kao would meet Chinese President Jiang Zemin and other senior officials during the current trip, which comes less than two weeks after President Lee called for a review of economic policy toward China with the aim of avoiding overdependence on the mainland.
Taipei's China Times Express newspaper said on Sunday that Taiwan's economic planners had drawn up measures -- including contingency plans to restrict Taiwanese investment on the mainland -- if Taiwan-China relations deteriorated.
Li, the Chinese vice-premier, took a swipe at President Lee, saying no one could block direct trade and transport links between China and Taiwan, rivals from the time of the Chinese civil war that ended in 1949.
"Economic development between the two sides is the general trend and no single person can obstruct this," Li said.
"Any person who tries to place artificial barriers to restrict economic cooperation is going against the will of the people of the two sides," he said.
He also told the seminar he hoped Taiwan authorities would allow direct links as soon as possible.
Indirect links between the two sides have been allowed since the late 1980s, through Hong Kong or a third country.
Many Taiwanese businessmen, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, are eager for direct trade and transport links. But Taiwan has been reluctant to lift the ban, which it views as its last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
China has been pressing Taiwan to open direct links. Last week, China introduced a series of regulations to pave the way for direct shipping links.
The Taiwanese delegation is the largest to visit China since a trend of easing tensions was reversed by Taiwan President Lee's mid-1995 visit to the United States.
Imperial Tobacco Plc, fresh from its split from Hanson Plc, has admitted that its former parent group did receive a takeover approach prior to the demerger but rejected it because the price was too low.
Imperial's chief executive Gareth Davis told Reuters in an interview this week: "A phone call was made to Grosvenor Place (Hanson's headquarters) but they were talking silly prices." He confirmed that the interested party was a tobacco firm, but refused to comment on recent speculation that B.A.T. Industries Plc was a potential buyer.
Imperial Tobacco Plc spelled out its blueprint for export growth this week, seeking to silence critics of its strategy who have contributed to driving down the shareprice by 17 percent since its Oct 1 demerger from Hanson Plc.
Imperial's chain-smoking chief executive, Gareth Davis, who joined the company after graduating from Sheffield University in 1972, told Reuters in an interview that investors should not under-estimate his determination to expand exports fast.
"Admittedly we were a late entrant to international markets. But that's because we had to get our costs licked," he said.
Getting costs licked helped make Imperial one of the most efficient players in its sector in the 10 years under Hanson's ownership, with productivity raised by 195 percent in a decade.
Davis sees it continuing to grow by eight to nine percent over the next four years, he said.
But recently Imperial has seen its shares slide, partly due to concerns that most of its profits (85 percent) stem from a shrinking British market. Analysts are asking how Imperial can invest in export growth while cutting back its sizable 1.1 billion pounds ($1.8 billion) in debt.
Natwest Markets and Credit Lyonnais issued sell notes on Imperial this month. But SBC Warburg said it was undervalued, citing its efficiency and greater attraction as a bid target over Gallaher, the American Brands UK unit due to be demerged.
Davis sought to answer the critics this week. "The priority is to get it (debt) down. Our situation, our ability to generate cash means we can do things in parallel -- pay down debt and pay for acquisitions." Bolt-on acquisitions are likely in cigars.
Expanding on his growth plans, he said "We have already grown profits with little dilution of margins. Our strategy to grow is very much a multi-pronged route.
"We roll out our American brand success in France to Germany and Spain as well. We continue to follow the Brits into key holiday and work markets abroad. Keep developing the hand rolling product, seek bolt-on acquisitions and develop in selected emerging markets."
He said these key markets in Asia and China already had a preference for the Virginia style of cigarette, a plain unflavoured tobacco variety which is Imperial's strength.
"We're not a Philip Morris or B.A.T(BATS.L. We're not a major global player and we don't see this as a head-on collision. These markets are so massive that even developing a small part of it will have a big impact on our profits."
The company has already set up a base in Hong Kong, with a senior marketing recruit from Marlboro cigarettes. It is establishing four bases in China and has a technical co-operation agreement with China's state tobacco company.
It is focused on developing in Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia and Indonesia. "More specifically, the group is in talks with one party in Japan about entering that market for the first time. This deal is likely to be a distribution agreement."
The group said it will seek joint ventures and distribution deals in these emerging markets.
Imperial is already gearing up to cope with a possible surge in production at its Nottingham plant in Britain.
Company bosses clinched a deal with unions to add a third shift from May onwards, which could allow capacity to be raised by one third to 53 billion cigarettes from 37 billion.
Davis has pledged shareholder value through expansion. But if cash builds up and there are no buying opportunities the company will consider a share buy back.
Imperial's boss is sanguine about the roller coaster ride for its shareprice since demerger. Its strong debut lit up the tobacco sector, taking Imperial to a high of 438 pence per share. But it has since fallen back to 361 1/2 pence.
He cited "overheating in the first days, with rumours of a dawn raid (on shares) that never happened." He also cited some selling of shares by U.S. retail investors, but said the holdings were eventually soaked up by US institutions.
"There'll be a wee bit of volatility for a while longer," said Davis who sees a truer value at between 390 pence and 410.
($1=.6050 Pound)
British spirits, pubs and fast food group Allied Domecq on Tuesday reported a fall in annual profits but effectively ruled out a demerger as a solution to its problems.
Allied chairman Sir Christopher Hogg said in a statement the company was "clear that the best way to improve shareholder value is to improve operating performance and that this should be our overriding objective for the foreseeable future."
He disappointed market hopes of a demerger of the company's spirits and wines business, saying this option had been "thoroughly reviewed" and the company was "intent on developing the group's two principal businesses."
Full-year pretax profits to August before exceptionals slipped to 575 million pounds ($947.4 million) from 645 million previously but were within analyst forecasts of between 560 and 581 million.
Allied Domecq said exceptional losses for the year totalled 311 million pounds, the largest part of which was on the 205 million pound sale of its 50 percent stake in brewer Carlsberg-Tetley to Bass in August.
Allied paid out a total dividend of 23.59 pence a share, unchanged from the year ending March 1995, which was used as a comparison because of a change to its accounting period.
"The figures were very much in line with expectations. Some people had been worried the dividend may be cut but it has been maintained and that's a positive," one analyst, who asked not to be identified, said.
Allied's shares eased 10 pence to 458 pence by 1040 GMT.
"The divisions have gone in the direction expected but if you were someone who wanted action -- a demerger or management change -- you haven't got either and there will be disappointment," the analyst said.
Allied said its corporate restructuring had been largely completed with the sale of its stake in Carlsberg-Tetley and smaller food companies.
Hogg said the group "must improve the returns it delivers to shareholders." He said an essential part of this was recognising and remedying overstocking of spirits distributors.
The cost of tackling overstocking of U.S. spirits was the main factor in a 14 percent fall in year trading profits in the group's spirits and wines business, the company said.
Allied said it was "determined to increase prices (in spirits and wines) where we can," adding that strong brands and market leadership were the best basis for achieving this.
The company said it hoped the division would benefit from the increasing focus on key brand/market combinations, more favourable shipment patterns and from efficiency gains.
But it warned that the trading environment "may offer little prospect of improvement." The group's retailing business, which includes pubs and fast food outlets, saw underlying profits rise four percent during the year and Allied said it saw further opportunities for developing its leading pub brands.
"The company has said they can grow earnings and that's the way to create shareholder value," the analyst said.
But he added that there was still "a lot of scepticism that they have to dispose of." ($1=.6069 Pound)
Promising the computer industry equivalent of universal harmony, a U.S.-based start-up formed by a brain trust of Israeli computer scientists Monday unveiled a technology that promises to overcome barriers dividing users of rival software programs.
Anysoft Inc. said its set of software technologies allows computer users to manipulate information from any application while retaining all formatting and other properties.
The system functions as an underlying layer of operating system software, but independent of any one operating system. An operating system controls the basic functions of a computer. Anysoft officials asserted the system can handle text, numerical data, graphical images, video and other data, including information available only at remote Internet sites.
"This is the beginning of true software interoperability," Anysoft Chief Executive Illan Poreh said in a statement. "For the first time, all applications, including those that have not incorporated the ANY Technologies, will work together."
The private Cambridge, Mass.-based firm is backed by Bank Leumi, Israel's largest bank, and 21 private investors, including several senior executives at modem maker U.S. Robotics Corp..
In an interview, Anysoft founder Poreh said the company's team of software programmers was handpicked from among top professors and graduate students at leading Israeli universities, including Technion, the Israeli Institute of Technology.
Industry analysts briefed on the technology hailed it as a decisive breakthrough, based on its potential to liberate computer users from dependence on any single operating system, such as Microsoft Corp.'s Windows.
"This is certainly one of the most significant technologies I've seen in the past five years," said veteran industry analyst Tim Bajarin, who heads Creative Strategies, a San Jose, Calif.-based consulting firm.
"What Anysoft has done is taken software interoperability beyond a forced Windows-X86 environment," Barjarin said, referring to the ruling combination of Microsoft software and Intel Corp. software and hardware systems.
Nonetheless, Anysoft's audacious goal is set against a history of failed industry attempts to create a universally accepted format capable of handling all types of computer data.
In recent years, leading computer makers like International Business Machines Corp., Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. have rallied around a common software compabability standard known as CORBA.
However, this and similar initiatives have been hamstrung by competitive rivalries among industry players and the belief that programmers must unify around a single standard for creating software.
Microsoft's own effort at ushering in a "Golden Age" of software compatability has gone by several names, such as Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), and ActiveX, its Internet-based compatability standard.
But Microsoft's efforts have met with foot-dragging by companies unwilling to cede the software giant any more standard-setting power than it already has.
By contrast, the ANY concept is based on the seemingly simple idea that the only univeral information from different operating systems is what computer users see displayed on a screen.
"The screen is the only standard that everyone is using," Poreh maintained.
Anysoft has created software extensions that give computer users the perception of compatibility without having to address underlying programming differences that have ensnared previous efforts, he said.
Anysoft's go-it-alone strategy depends on seeding its technology widely among software companies, Internet service providers and large corporations developing their own software applications, all of which might include Anysoft's universal data routing features in their own products.
Consumers would have to wait until products using the technology become available from these companies.
Poreh said he plans to charge companies using Anysoft technology in their products a licensing fee starting at around $20,000 and running up to $400,000, depending on the potential number of users of the product.
In addition, Poreh said Anysoft plans to ask for a royalty of 1 percent to 3 percent, or a flat fee, again depending on the potential number of customers.
ANY technology is designed to extend software systems such as Windows or Lotus Notes, and existing compatibility programs such as Adobe Systems Inc.'s  Acrobat, Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Java or even the Internet, rather than replace them, Anysoft officials said.
Anysoft said it has held licensing talks with five of the world's top 10 independent software development companies, including IBM.
Poreh said IBM's main interest appeared to be in using ANY technology to recover data from so-called "legacy" applications running on older mainframe computers where the underlying software is no longer being actively maintained.
ANY technology currently works with software running on Microsoft's Windows operating systems. The technology is in the process of being made compatible with Apple Computer Inc.'s Macintosh, IBM's OS/2 and the Unix-based X/Windows operating system, company officials said.
Upscale apparel retailer Nordstrom Inc. Monday posted a 16 percent increase in earnings for its third quarter as it boosted sales and reduced markdowns.
For the fiscal third quarter ending Oct. 31, Nordstrom posted sales of $984 million, up 9 percent over last year's $907 million. Net income rose to $34 million, or 42 cents a share, from $29 million, or 36 cents a share, last year.
When certain one-time gains and costs were excluded, the company earned about 38 cents a share, compared with a Wall Street consensus forecast of 36 cents, said Piper Jaffray analyst Saul Yaari.
He and other analysts said they expected to raise their estimates.
"It was a great quarter," said Jennifer Black Groves of Black &amp; Co. in Portland, Ore.
She noted the company had a difficult summer because of an over-reliance on unpopular body-hugging fashions and a merchandise reconfiguration that confused customers and sales executives.
The result was heavy markdowns in July and August that ate into earnings, but company executives said the deepest of the markdowns appear to be behind them.
"They sacrificed the short term for what will be very beenficial for them in the long term," Groves said.
She said the merchandise reconfiguration, aimed at bringing the company's clothing selections more into line with its customer base, has "rejuvenated the company."
"I think you're going to see some great numbers in the year ahead," she said.
Nordstrom said comparable-store sales, a closely watched measure of industry performance, fell 0.3 percent in the latest quarter but were up 1.5 percent for the year to date.
And executives told analysts in a conference call that their plans called for comparable-store sales to rise at least 2 percent in the critical holiday quarter compared with a relatively weak 1995 period.
"We have plenty of ability to respond to sales above that," Nordstrom co-Chairman John Whitacre said in the conference call.
Comparable-store sales are adjusted to represent only that retail space that has been open at least a year.
Nordstrom has opened several new stores this year and plans to open three new department stores and several smaller stores next year, adding about 719,000 square feet of store space to its current total of 11.74 million, executives said.
Calling it a crucial change for how it develops new cars and trucks, Ford Motor Co. Wednesday launched a new computer-aided design project based on a computer programme from Structural Dynamics Research Corp..
Ford said the new project, called C3P, will cut prototype costs by up to 50 percent; improve investment efficiency by 20 percent to 30 percent; and eliminate half of costly late development changes.
"The new C3P initiative represents the most fundamental change of the engineering computer infrastructure in Ford's history," Paul Blumberg, director of product development systems at Ford's Product Development Centre, said in a statement.
Officials did not specify any dollar amount savings. But executives said they fall under previously disclosed product development cost savings. Three new vehicle programmes started this year will use C3P.
Once the programme is fully implemented in 2000, Ford said it will merge computer-aided design, manufacturing and engineering functions into a seamless, unified system encompassing all stages of vehicle and component development.
Ford's decision to team up with Structural Dynamics Research (SDRC) raised eyebrows at competitors. The Milford, Ohio-based firm is a small player in the market of supplying computer aided design and manufacturing systems (CAD/CAM) to the auto industry, according to both competitors and analysts.
"You just don't hear about SDRC," said Ron Bienkowski, an executive engineer at Chrysler Corp.
Bienkowski also chided Ford for launching a new design programme seven years after Chrysler did.
"We made the decision to go to a single system like C3P back in 1989," he said.
Chrysler, as well as several other Japanese and European automakers, use the more popular CATIA programme from Paris-based Dassault Systemes and IBM Corp..
Charles Foundyller, president of market research firm Daratech Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., said the SDRC system is an easy-to-use, powerful system that should serve Ford well.
"All in all, I don't think Ford made a bad decision," he said.
Ford made the C3P announcement as part of a half-day presentation to reporters touting the No. 2 U.S. automaker's computer capabilities. Among other news items announced Wednesday, Ford:
-- plans to eliminate 90 percent of its physical prototypes by 2000 in favour of electronic versions. Physical prototypes now constitute about 40 percent to 50 percent today;
-- will be able to conduct a computer-simulated frontal crash for $10 in 2000, compared to the $200 it currently costs;
-- will introduce a production car in Europe in 1997 that was designed almost completely using computer technology.
Ford executives were hard-pressed to assign dollar amounts to all of the new computer design and prototype initiatives.
But Claude Lobo, director of advanced design at Ford, said the new systems dramatically improve quality and free designers and engineers to take more risks.
Rupert Murdoch's global media group, The News Corp Ltd, on Tuesday reported an 8.1-percent fall in net profit for the first quarter of 1996/97, in stark contrast to market expectations of a healthy rise.
But analysts said Murdoch's forecast last month at News Corp's annual meeting that the group would achieve a profit lift of 20 percent for the year to June 30, 1997 was still possible.
The film, television, publishing and newspaper conglomerate reported net profits of A$283 million (US$223 million) for the three months ended September 30, down from A$308 million a year earlier.
Analysts had forecast net profit before abnormal items would be around A$320-330 million, up around 15 percent.
Net profit before abnormals came in at A$285 million.
The poor result caused News Corp shares to fall sharply and dragged the whole Australian share market lower.
The share price fall wiped over A$300 million of the group's market capitalisation. The stock closed 18 cents or 2.52 percent lower at A$6.95 with over 4.7 million shares traded.
The weaker profit was a result of poorer returns in U.S. TV, Australian newspapers and book publishing, News Corp said.
"This is not as people were expecting type of result. It was a very flat result," one Sydney-based media analyst said.
News Corp could still report a 20 percent rise in net profits for the 1996/97 year as it was only the U.S. television business that was clearly below forecast, analysts' said. They said this forecast by Murdoch was in U.S. dollar terms.
In U.S. dollar terms, News Corp operating income was seven percent higher in the first quarter.
"Basically, what News has said is 'the first quarter was a bit disappointing but you are still going to get your growth for the year'," one Melbourne-based analysts said after taking part in an analysts' conference telephone call with News Corp.
News Corp said its profit was mainly bolstered by the worldwide box office success of the science fiction movie Independence Day and its British newspapers and book publishing.
Independence Day, a film about invading aliens who launch an attack against the Earth from huge space ships, has grossed more than US$670 million worldwide, making it the third highest-grossing film in box office history.
British newspaper operations enjoyed strong growth with an 18-percent gain in operating profits in the three months to September, News Corp said. The Sun, The Times and The Sunday Times newspapers all posted gains in both advertising and circulation revenues in the first quarter.
"Additionally, the group has benefitted from reduced newsprint costs," the company said.
"Offsetting these gains were weaker results in U.S. television, Australian newspapers and book publishing, which lacked results from the educational division which was sold in March 1996," it said.
News also said continued losses for its Asian satellite broadcaster, STAR TV, were in line with expectations.
The fall in profit in Australian dollar terms also reflected the stronger local currency against the U.S. dollar as about 75 percent of News Corp's revenue is in U.S. dollars.
The first quarter profit drop follows a profit dip for News Corp in the 1995/96 year, when it reported a six-percent fall in pre-abnormals net profit to A$1.26 billion.
(A$1 = $0.79)
Australia's second-largest bank, Westpac Banking Corp Ltd, announced a 19.5 percent rise in net profit for the 1995/96 year on Tuesday, but warned that fierce competition would flatten profits in the year ahead.
"Everywhere you look and in every market we're in there's a lot of margin pressure," Westpac managing director Bob Joss told a news conference after the profit announcement.
"It will be tough to make a rise," he said when asked if profits for the year to September 30, 1997, would be flat.
Westpac reported net profit of A$1.132 billion (US$890 million) for the year to September 30, 1996, up 19.5 percent on 1994/95.
But this disguised a flat profit in the second half of the year and was boosted by a sharp drop in bad debt charges.
Joss said competition from non-bank mortgage originators in the housing loan sector was a key factor pressuring margins.
Mortgage originators such as Aussie Home Loans and RAMS Home Loans, who have snared 10 percent of the mortgage market from big banks like Westpac over the last two years by offering cut price home loans.
Their entry into the market has dragged the big banks' home loan margins down from over 300 basis points last year to just over 200 points now.
Joss said Westpac would look to boost its own mortgage origination programme to help compete against the non-banks and support its margins.
Westpac has already launched one issue of securitised mortgages worth A$340 million, the first of the major banks to do so.
Joss said Westpac planned to multiply the size of such issues in the current year.
"The real key for us will be to try to manage our balance sheet, have more assets off balance sheets, more securitising of lower margin assets," he said.
"We just did one near the tail end of the (1995/96) year, A$340 million, so we would expect to see quite a bit more in the year ahead," Joss said.
Even then, Westpac would struggle to maintain its margins and would have to cut costs and increase efficiency to compensate.
The bearish earnings comments and the detail of the result saw Westpac's share price close down 15 cents at A$7.05, despite the result being almost exactly the average of analysts' forecasts.
Westpac is the second major bank to forecast flat profits in the year ahead because of increased competition. The Commonwealth Bank of Australia since May has been forecasting flat profits over the next year.
These more sober forecasts signify the end of two to three years of sharp profit rises for the major banks as they recovered from hefty loan losses in the early 1990s and capitalised on a strong economy.
A smaller New South Wales-based bank, St George Bank Ltd, echoed this new more subdued outlook for profits in its annual results also announced on Tuesday.
St George reported net profit of A$148.3 million for the 1995/96 year, a rise of 9.4 percent.
St George managing director Jim Sweeney said margin pressure meant it would be a challenge to improve profits in the first half of the current year. (A$1 = US$0.7880)
Australia's second largest bank, Westpac Banking Corp Ltd, announced a 19.5 percent rise in net profit for the 1995/96 year on Tuesday, but warned that fierce competition would flatten profits in the year ahead.
"Everywhere you look and in every market we're in there's a lot of margin pressure," Westpac Managing Director Bob Joss told a news conference after the profit announcement.
"It will be tough to make a rise," he said when asked if profits for the year to September 30, 1997 would be flat.  
Westpac reported a net profit of A$1.132 billion for the year to September 30, 1996, up 19.5 percent on 1994/95, but this disguised a flat profit in the second half and was boosted by a sharp drop in bad debt charges for year.
Bad debt charges fell to A$121 million in 1995/96, down sharply from A$330 million in 1994/95, a fall which Westpac said contributed about A$200 million to the 12 percent rise in pre-tax and abnormals profit to A$1.389 billion.
Joss said competition from non-bank mortgage originators in the housing loan sector was a key factor pressuring margins.  
Mortgage originators such as Aussie Home Loans and RAMS have taken over 10 percent of the mortgage market from the big banks including Westpac over the last two years, dragging home loan margins down from over 300 basis points to just over 200 points. Joss said Westpac would look to boost its own mortgage origination programme to help compete against the non-banks and support its margins.
Westpac has already launched one issue of securitised mortgages worth A$340 million, the first of the major banks to do so.  
Joss said Westpac planned to multiply the size of such issues in the current year.
"The real key for us will be to try to manage our balance sheet, have more assets off balance sheets, more securitising of lower margin assets," he said.
"We just did one near the tail end of the (1995/96) year, A$340 million, so we would expect to see quite a bit more in the year ahead," Joss said.
When asked how much more than A$340 million, he said: "Multiples of A$340 million."
Even then, Westpac would struggle to maintain its margin.  
Westpac reported in its accounts for the year that the group's net margin had fallen to 370 basis points over the whole 1995/96 year, down from 380 basis points over 1994/95.
Joss said the fall was already apparent towards the end of the year to September.
"At the tail end of the year, it's actually less than what you would have seen for the year," Joss said.
He acknowledged Westpac would find it difficult to keep that margin from falling from 370 points.
Given the margin pressure, Westpac would continue to focus on increasing transaction and other fees to compensate.  
"In such an environment, maintenance of overall net earnings growth will depend increasingly on attaining improvements in fee income generation, particularly non lending-related fees and on improved efficiency of operations," Joss said in an earlier statement.
He told the news conference he would like to see Westpac's efficiency ratio, which measures expenses to income, fall below 60 percent from the 62.6 percent evident in 1995/96.  
This ratio worsened during the year from 60.6 percent in 1994/95, due largely to the costs of acquiring and restructuring the Western Australian-based Challenge Bank and Trust Bank of New Zealand.
Joss said rationalisations throughout Westpac over the next two years would help to lower costs, improve efficiency and therefore compensate somewhat for the slimmer margins.
The bearish comments from Joss helped Westpac close 15 cents lower at A$7.05.
-- Bernard Hickey -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
The News Corp Ltd is expected to meet the 20 percent rise in net profit before abnormals for the year to June 30, 1997, predicted by its chairman Rupert Murdoch last month, Australian media analysts said on Tuesday.
"They should do it easily," one Melbourne-based analyst told Reuters after taking part in an analysts' conference call with News Corp following the release of its first quarter results.
News Corp earlier reported a lower than expected net profit before abnormals of A$285 million for the three months to September 30, slightly up from A$284 million a year earlier.  
Analysts had forecast net profit before abnormal items would be around A$320-330 million, up around 15 percent.
They said News Corp's results in Australian currency were hit by poor U.S. television results and a stronger local dollar.
In U.S. dollar terms, News Corp operating income was seven percent higher in the first quarter. The analysts said Murdoch's 20 percent profit lift forecast was in U.S. dollar terms.
"They said that growth is still on for in excess of 20 percent and that is in U.S. dollar terms," another Melbourne based analyst said. She said News' Fox Broadcasting U.S. TV network results should start to improve in the second quarter.  
"I think you will find that there is more disappointment from the Australian viewpoint than the U.S. viewpoint," the second Melbourne analyst said.
"I imagine there won't be too much of a downgrade with respect to people's full year forecasts," she said.
"Basically, what News has said is 'the first quarter was a bit disappointing but you are still going to get your growth for the year'," she said after taking part in the conference call.
The film, television, publishing and newspaper conglomerate reported a six percent fall in pre-abnormals net profit to A$1.26 million for the year to June 30, 1996.  
News Corp's net profit before abnormals and preference dividends is seen rising to around A$1.59 billion in 1996/97 according to the Barcep survey of analysts by BZW Australia.
The second Melbourne analyst said the second quarter is traditionally a stronger quarter for Fox Broadcasting and is likely to get a boost from the baseball World Series finals.
"There is definitely room for recovery from the one-off things in this quarter -- if they don't then they have got problems," she said.
"The second quarter is by far their biggest quarter and you wouldn't want to see any problems," she said.  
Analysts said the first quarter is also likely to be the quarter most affected by the stronger Australian dollar, which had averaged US$0.78 in the 1996/97 first quarter, compared with US$0.73 a year earlier.
They said that in the rest of 1995/96, the Australian dollar was mainly around US$0.75. The local unit is currently worth about US$0.78. News has 75 percent of its sales in U.S. dollars. The first Melbourne analyst said News Corp had leverage to earnings growth in its publishing related businesses, (newspapers, book publishing and magazines) which account for 55 percent of earnings, following the fall in newsprint prices.  
The first Melbourne analyst said he is forecasting News Corp to report a net profit before abnormals of A$1.63 billion in 1996/97.
However, one Sydney analyst said he would be likely to cut his full year forecast from A$1.545 billion, excluding abnormals and before preference dividends. "I can see myself shaving that back to about the A$1,500 (million) mark," he said.
At 3.20 p.m. (0430 GMT), News Corp shares were 18 cents or 2.52 percent lower at A$6.95 with just over 3.96 million shares traded, wiping over A$300 million off its market capitalisation.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
General Motors Corp. told employees it has a potential buyer for four of its parts plants, but denied reports Tuesday that it is in discussions to sell the facilities to Canadian auto supplier Magna International Inc.
GM informed workers at its Delphi Interior and Lighting Systems plant in Flint, Mich., on Monday that it has a possible buyer for the facility and three others, union and company representatives said Tuesday.
The 1,200 workers at the Flint plant were not told who the prospective buyer is, said officials at United Auto Workers union Local 326.
"They did tell us that as we spoke the potential buyer was entering into discussions," said Tim Thompson, a district shop committee officer for Local 326.
The Detroit News reported Tuesday that GM is talking with Magna, of Markham, Ontario, and that a deal could be announced soon. Separately, a source with knowledge of the auto supplier industry told Reuters that Atoma International Inc., a division of Magna, won the bidding for the plants, although the deal had not been finalized.
But Delphi spokeswoman Kari Hulsey denied that Magna is a finalist to buy the plants. "It's not Magna, it's not a division of Magna," she said."
One factor that could delay the announcement is the continuing contract talks between the UAW in the United States and Canada and Detroit's Big Three automakers. If Magna does turn out to be the buyer, it may be to GM's advantage to hold off finalizing a deal. Magna has previously had a contentious relationship with the Canadian United Auto Workers union.
The buyer wants to purchase the Flint plant, one in Livonia, Mich., and two in Canada as a group. The plants employ a total of 5,100 hourly workers and make a variety of interior parts, including hinges, door panels and instrument panels, GM said.
The Flint plant, which makes hardware, and the Livonia facility, which makes interior door panels, are both Delphi plants. The fabricating facility in Oshawa, Ontario, and a seat plant in Windsor, Ontario, are managed by GM of Canada but make products for Delphi.
GM spokeswoman Hulsey would not say if the four facilities are among the 14 underperforming Delphi plants that GM has said it wants to divest.
Rupert Murdoch's global media group, The News Corp Ltd, on Tuesday reported an 8.1 percent fall in net profit for the first quarter of 1996/97, in stark contrast to analysts' forecasts of a healthy rise.
But analysts said Murdoch's forecast last month at News Corp's annual meeting that the group would achieve a profit lift of 20 percent for the year to June 30, 1997 was still possible.  
News Corp reported net profits of A$283 million for the three months ended September 30, down from A$308 million a year earlier. News said the weaker profit was a result of poorer returns in U.S. TV, Australian newspapers and book publishing.
Analysts had forecast net profit before abnormal items would be around A$320-330 million, up around 15 percent.
Net profit before abnormals came in at A$285 million.
"This is not as people were expecting type of result. It was a very flat result," one Sydney-based media analyst said.  
News Corp could still report a 20 percent rise in net profits for the 1996/97 year as it was only the U.S. television business that was below forecast, the analyst said.
The analyst said he would likely cut his full year forecasts for News Corp from the current A$1.545 billion (excluding abnormals and before preference dividends). "I can see myself shaving that back to about the A$1,500 (million) mark," he said.
However, asked if News Corp could meet Murdoch's forecasts, the analyst replied: "I think so, because the rest of the result was perfectly in line with what we were going for, so they will have to work hard and if things go right for them they can."  
News Corp said its profit was mainly bolstered by the worldwide box office success of the science fiction movie Independence Day and its British newspapers and book publishing. Independence Day has grossed more than US$670 million worldwide, making it the third highest-grossing film in box office history.
British newspaper operations enjoyed strong growth with an 18-percent gain in operating profits in the three months to September, News Corp said. The Sun, The Times and The Sunday Times newspapers all posted gains in both advertising and circulation revenues in the first quarter.  
"Additionally, the group has benefitted from reduced newsprint costs," the company said.
"Offsetting these gains were weaker results in U.S. television, Australian newspapers and book publishing, which lacked results from the educational division which was sold in March 1996," it said.
News also said continued losses for its Asian satellite broadcaster, STAR TV, were in line with expectations.
At 1.40 p.m. (0240 GMT), News Corp shares were 16 cents or 2.24 percent lower at A$6.97 with just over 2.30 million shares traded, wiping over A$300 million off its market capitalisation.  
"It seems it's just a knee-jerk reaction to the first quarter, which looks like it was A$40 million below what the market was looking for," a Sydney broker said.
The analyst said the fall in Australian dollar terms also reflected the stronger local currency against the U.S. dollar as about 75 percent of News Corp's revenue is in U.S. dollars.
In U.S. dollar terms, News Corp operating income was seven percent higher in the first quarter.
The film, television, publishing and newspaper conglomerate reported a six percent fall in pre-abnormals net profit to A$1.26 million for the year to June 30, 1996.  
This is seen rising to around A$1.59 billion in 1996/97 according to the Barcep survey of analysts by BZW Australia.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1813
China on Tuesday blasted U.S. penalties against its textiles ahead of a visit next week by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, but said the two sides had more in common than differences.
Beijing accused Washington of not having produced enough evidence to support textile sanctions and said it opposed strong-arm tactics to settle trade disputes.
"We are opposed to one side imposing its will on another in trade disputes," Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai told a regular news briefing.
"The United States has not fully consulted with China and has not provided clear supporting evidence," Cui said.
But Cui declined to comment on whether the dispute would overshadow a visit by Christopher to China next week. Christopher's last visit to China two years ago ended in wrangling over human rights issues.
"This is an important bilateral meeting," Cui said of Christopher's trip, scheduled for November 19-21.
Christopher's visit would help lay the groundwork for bilateral relations in the 21st century, Cui said, adding there was no reason for China and the United States not to develop a healthy and stable relationship.
"The state of relations between the two countries will...have major effects on the peace, stability and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region and the world as a whole," Cui said.
"We will discover that the common interests of China and the United States are far greater than the differences," Cui said.
Beijing and Washington both say ties have warmed after a series of spats over Taiwan, human rights, arms proliferation and trade over the past year.
In the most recent clash, Beijing said on Sunday it would temporarily ban imports of selected U.S. textiles, farm goods, fruits and alcoholic drinks from December 10 in retaliation for U.S. sanctions taken against Chinese textiles.
Washington announced penalties against imports of Chinese textiles in September, accusing China of using shipments through third countries to avoid quotas agreed upon in a bilateral textile accord.
U.S. trade officials said on Monday that Chinese violations of the textile accord were well documented. The sanctions were expected to cost China about $19 million a year.
The spokesman sidestepped a question about whether the textile dispute would be part of discussions during Christopher's visit but said China hoped for a solution beneficial to both sides.
"We have always been devoted to developing bilateral trade on the basis of equality and mutual benefit," Cui said.
"We hope again that the United States will be able to adopt a stance helpful to the development of Sino-U.S. trade," Cui said.
Japan is expected to lift controls on stock-related derivatives as part of a drive to free up its financial markets, but industry sources have doubts about whether the products can really take off here.
The securities industry sources said Tokyo was lagging so far behind overseas rivals, including Singapore and Hong Kong, that it would be extremely difficult to make a viable and attractive market for stock-based derivatives in Japan.
On Monday, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto announced a five-year "Big Bang" plan to liberalise the nation's markets and catch up with reforms carried out years ago in rival financial centres like London. The aim is to make Japanese markets "free, fair and global".
As part of that push, Hashimoto asked for a review of laws relating to derivatives transaction, which currently restrict stock options to those based on indices, rather than on individual stocks.
But even before the "Big Bang" announcement, Japan's Ministry of Finance (MOF) had already been looking at lifting restrictions on stock options and equity swap transactions.
A trader at a foreign brokerage said that Japanese participants are already used to offshore trading in derivatives, avoiding the tightly regulated Japanese markets, and it may be hard to generate interest here.
"It is too late to induce market enthusiasm," he said. "Even if the finance ministry deregulates (stock-related) derivatives trading in Japan, it might be difficult to make Tokyo markets attractive," he said.
An official at the ministry told Reuters recently that it plans to decide whether to allow the introduction of a variety of stock-related derivatives transactions after an advisory panel delivers its recommendations next spring.
While Japan introduced stock index futures and options in the late 1980s, the ministry has taken a particularly cautious approach to derivatives of individual stocks in order to concentrate equity-related deals on stock exchanges.
Options, which are usually used to hedge against losses due to price fluctuations, allow the holder to buy or sell a specified amount at an agreed price during a set time period.
An analyst at a big brokerage said that the securities industry and the Osaka and Tokyo stock exchanges have made preparations to list individual stock options and are ready to start as soon as the ministry gives the go-ahead.
Such options on individual stocks were introduced in the early 1970s in the U.S. and European markets.
Big Japanese brokers also want to offer stock options which can be traded directly between investors and traders without any stock exchange involvement, he said.
Up until now, trading of individual stock options and equity swap transactions was banned as this was judged to violate the Criminal Code outlawing gambling.
This has pushed lucrative business offshore to less regulated markets, where brokers are able to trade options or warrants based on Japanese stocks if they wish. Market sources say Japan may have to revise the law to clear the way for such derivatives trade.
Shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa saw his fortunes almost dashed on the rocks in the 1980s when the family company met ill winds, but his luck rebounded and now he could be Hong Kong's next leader.
Next month China's carefully screened Selection Committee will choose a chief executive to run Hong Kong after Britain hands the colony back in mid-1997.
Tung topped a recent popularity poll with 30.2 percent. His nearest rivals were former Chief Justice Ti Liang Yang with 27.5 percent, businessman Peter Woo with 8.7 percent and former High Court judge Simon Li with 3.3 percent.
Tung has been a senior member of a preparatory committee of pro-Beijing Hong Kong notables and mainland China officials crafting the power structures to replace British colonial rule.
He was lauded as an impartial and honest counsellor by Governor Chris Patten when Tung stepped down in June this year from Patten's advisory cabinet, the Executive Council.
He resigned in October as head of his family firm, Orient Overseas (International) Ltd, to make his leadership bid.
Tung's early campaigning consisted of clearing the decks of speculation that might lead to challenges on his integrity, such as how China had once saved his family from bankruptcy.
Tung took the helm of the business after his father died in 1979. He recently revealed China had helped bail out the firm 11 years ago by backing a US$120 million fund led by tycoon Henry Fok, a kingmaker in today's leadership contest. The family later bought back most of the shares and restored their majority.
"In 1985 and '86 we went through a very difficult time when the shipping business was in serious recession. Henry Fok led a syndicate of investment in our company," Tung said.
"I know there were mainland funds in it. I'm sure. To Mr Fok and those who have helped me...I am very grateful."
Tung was spotted as a possible favourite of China when President Jiang Zemin singled him out for a personal handshake at a meeting in Beijing this year.
Tung is believed to be acceptable also to Britain and to expatriate business leaders who hope he will form a "dream team" with incumbent Chief Secretary Anson Chan -- Hong Kong's top civil servant -- if China allows her to stay on after the flag change on July 1 next year.
Tung has links with the powerful in key capitals -- Beijing, Taipei, London and Washington -- whose influence will be important for Hong Kong's evolution after 1997.
Born in Shanghai in 1937, Tung was educated at Liverpool University in Britain.
The 59-year-old magnate has a patriarchal look, with grey bristly hair, bright eyes and hand-on-heart gestures.
The tycoon, who previously dodged the limelight, is said to lead a disciplined life, arriving at his office at dawn to perform t'ai chi exercises on the roof before starting work.
Despite a reputation for modesty, wisdom and caution, and his strong ties to China, Tung's local power base may ultimately stir some unease in Beijing.
"It is hard to see Beijing favouring someone with a local power base, who really means to run the show," said legislator and lawyer Margaret Ng.
Tung has made a point of tapping various views, including those of pro-democracy parties and trade unions.
"I have met with people of different social classes, organisations and political views. I have gained a deeper understanding of Hong Kong's future challenges," Tung said.
But he has also made increasingly strident pro-China policy utterances. He accused Patten of splitting Hong Kong's 6.3 million people through a speech that assailed China's plan to replace the elected legislature with an appointed assembly.
He has urged people to forget China's bloody army crackdown on the 1989 democracy movement in Beijing and to leave it to historians to judge the event.
Canadian mining company Bre-X Minerals Ltd has been in hiding since it announced 17 days ago that it has formed a partnership with the son of Indonesian ruler Suharto, prompting a flurry of comment on its ethics. (Corrects description of Suharto.)
Despite a constant whirl of rumors and persistent questions that have sent the company's shares on a roller coaster ride, Bre-X is maintaining a dogged silence. 
The Calgary-based company that controls one of the world's biggest gold prospects in Indonesia has not talked to the financial press for weeks. Company officials will take calls only from a handful of favoured analysts, according to market sources.
"I haven't had any calls returned," said gold analyst Rick Cohen with Goepel Shields in Vancouver. "There seems to be a certain number of people they talk to. Everybody's a bit in the dark." 
Bre-X sent out a news release on October 28 about its alliance Suharto's son, Sigit Harjojudanto, whose business influence is pervasive in Indonesia.
Since then, instead of directly addressing material questions about its business in Indonesia -- many of which are playing havoc with its stock price -- Bre-X has opted instead to leak to the market carefully selected press material.
On Sunday, for example, the company faxed the media, analysts and shareholders a copy of a story from the Far Eastern Economic Review detailing its links with Sigit. 
The article referred to Sigit's possible ties with the Indonesian army, stated flatly that one of Bre-X's Indonesian partners has been bought out and asserted that Canadian gold giant Barrick Gold Corp had tried to push Bre-X into a bad deal.
Despite questions about the article, Bre-X refused to respond and still has not said whether it endorses the story or puts any faith in the statements contained in the story.
"I've certainly suggested a few times that they talk to the media and clear things up," said Neil Winchester, manager of surveillance at the Toronto Stock Exchange. 
"It would be advantageous to the marketplace," he added.
Rumors have surrounded Bre-X since the Indonesian government said last month it would not issue essential contracts of work until Bre-X cleared up an ownership dispute with some of its Indonesian partners.
The dispute has placed a cloud over Bre-X's search to find a major mining partner to help it develop the rich Busang gold deposit in East Kalimantan, but the alliance with Suharto's son was expected to help the company clear up its problems. 
"They're optimistic that they can get everything (the permits) within a couple of weeks," said gold analyst Michael Fowler of Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion, who said he spoke with Bre-X on Tuesday.
But he said Bre-X would not comment on the article it distributed. "They just sent it out for general interest purposes," he added.
Still, the rumors in the article and other rampant gossip are taking a toll on shares linked to Bre-X. Other exploration companies in Asia have complained the uncertainty has spilled over and hurt their stocks. 
Minorca Resources Inc, a Canadian junior mining company that has an interest in the Busang deposit through an alliance with Bre-X's Indonesian partner, PT Askatindo Karya Mineral, has found itself on the defensive.
Talk about Askatindo being bought out is unfounded, Minorca president Roland Horst said in an interview. "They have no intention to sell out," he said.
Minorca's chairman is in Indonesia this week meeting with Askatindo officials and verified the company's intentions.
"There were discussions, but they were rebuffed," said Horst. 
He added that he also had a slew of unanswered questions about Bre-X's arrangements with Suharto's son.
"To be frank, the relationship between Minorca and Bre-X is relatively cool."
--Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100
U.S. group Dominion Resources on Wednesday agreed a 1.3 billion pound ($2.15 billion) bid for East Midlands Electricity, one of only five remaining British independent regional electricity companies.
But East Midlands shares languished well below the 670 pence per share offer price, as concerns emerged the bid might face obstacles from British competition authorities.
Virginia-based Dominion said last week it was considering a bid "at a price not much in excess of 608 pence per share". But East Midlands had scorned that price, saying it would undervalue the Nottingham-based electricity company's prospects.
Executives from Dominion, the fifth U.S. utility to bid for a British power supplier, met East Midlands management late on Tuesday with a takeover price top of the agenda.
East Midlands chairman Sir Nigel Rudd said in a joint statement that his board was recommending the offer "because it represents fair value for an excellent business, which has successfully differentiated itself from the sector."
East Midlands shares were up 13 pence at 624 pence ahosrlty after 1400 GMT, off a high of 650 pence.
"Everyone's expecting the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission) to take a close look at the deal. That is why the shares are only trading around 630 pence," said one trader.
Seven of the original 12 Recs have already been bought since they came up for grabs last March after the government's protective golden share expired, five years after privatisation in 1990.
Northern Electric is currently fighting off its second hostile approach in less than two years, rejecting a bid at 630 pence per share from CE Electric, a subsidiary of U.S. energy group CalEnergy, which holds just over 29 percent of the
"Dominion's offer looks a fair compromise price," said Chris Perry, utilities analyst at Charterhouse Tilney.
But he added there were "very genuine concerns" that the offer might be referred to the MMC.
"If Dominion is allowed to buy East Midlands and CalEnergy secures Northern, that would leave only three independent Recs," one analyst said.
British electricity watchdog Offer is expected to consult on Dominion's bid and then pass on its advice to Ian Lang, the trade and industry secretary, who will then decide whether the bid should be referred to the MMC.
Offer has completed consultations on CalEnergy's bid and will be passing on its advice to Lang shortly, industry sources said.
So far, only generators National Power and PowerGen have had their bids for Recs blocked, as they would have created fully integrated generation and supply companies.
Dominion's chief financial officer Linwood Robertson said in an interview that the company was now talking to the regulator.
"We intend to run this as a stand-alone business," he said, adding that he certainly hoped for approval from Offer.
He also said the group hoped to keep East Midlands' management team, which is highly regarded by industry analysts.
East Midlands was the first of Britain's electricity utilities, which were privatised with strong cash balance sheets, to launch a share buy-back to redistribute cash to shareholders.
Robertson said Dominion looked forward to the diversification East Midlands would bring to it and said the U.S. company would bring strengths to the British firm. ($1=.6050 Pound)
Sunbeam Corp., the struggling appliance maker led by corporate turnaround specialist Albert Dunlap, said Tuesday it would cut 6,000 jobs -- half its work force -- and eliminate 87 percent of its product lines.
The drastic measures, even more severe than Wall Street had expected, were announced just four months after Dunlap -- known as "Chainsaw Al" for his deep cost-cutting at troubled companies -- became chairman.
The maker of Sunbeam and Oster appliances, patio furniture and gas grills, which just reported its first quarterly loss since 1992, said it would also reduce the number of its facilities to 14 from 53 and take a charge of $300 million for one-time costs associated with the moves.
The Fort Lauderdale, Fla.-based firm, which lost $28.7 million in the third quarter as sales fell 2 percent, did not specify when the charge would be taken.
It did say, however, that only $75 million of the charge would be in cash -- for the payment of severance and other employee costs, lease obligations and other plant costs.
Sunbeam also announced ambitious plans for the future. It said it plans to double revenues to $2 billion by 1999 and lift operating margins to 20 percent of sales from the 2.5 percent posted for the first nine months of 1996.
Sunbeam also wants its return on equity to grow to 25 percent from 1 percent in the past year.
Shrinking profit margins and high manufacturing and administrative costs have depressed the company's profits in recent years. Sunbeam earned $50.5 million in 1995, less than half its 1994 profits.
Sunbeam said it will sell or shut 39 of 53 facilities, including 18 of its 26 factories, leaving it just four factories in the United States and four overseas. In addition, warehouses will be cut to 24 from 61.
The company said it will sell several businesses, including those that make furniture, time and temperature devices, scales and decorative bedding.
Sunbeam said its remaining businesses will be centered on kitchen appliances, personal care products, health care items, outdoor cooking equipment and professional care products.
"Our goal is to essentially complete the restructuring initiatives within the next 45 days. Therefore, the company has every intention of meeting its previously stated goal of beginning 1997 as a new company," Dunlap said in a statement.
Sales will double by 1999 to $2 billion, he said.
"It will be vintage Dunlap," Dunlap said in a conference call with institutional investors and analysts.
Dunlap declined to identify potential deal partners but said new products, including many designed for non-U.S. markets, and other steps would yield 20 percent or better year-over-year revenue growth.
Dunlap, who was named chairman and chief executive officer in July, is credited with turning around Scott Paper Co., which was later sold to Kimberly-Clark. At Scott Paper, Dunlap fired 10,000 workers and sold more than $2 billion in assets.
While his turnaround campaigns have helped stockholders, they have been criticized by community activists, unions and other groups as insensitive to workers.
Within months of joining Sunbeam, Dunlap -- also nicknamed "Darth Vader" after the villain of the "Star Wars" films -- replaced several top executives and brought in people who had worked for him in the past.
Although restructuring annoucements usually boost a company's stock price, Sunbeam stock lost 75 cents to $25 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
"He's pulled off some amazing turnarounds," Chapman Co. analyst Daniel Noll said of Dunlap. "But I'm a little skeptical. I think the stock's a little ahead of itself."
"'Chainsaw Al' is a pussycat name for you," analyst Andrew Shore of PaineWebber told Dunlap. "If you pull this off, you should be called 'Nuclear Al.'"
British merchant bank Hambros, under fire from a rebel Hong Kong shareholder calling for its breakup, reported a return to first-half profit on Wednesday and said the benefits of restructuring should begin to show through.
"We have great confidence in ourselves and what we are trying to do," Sir Chips Keswick, the group's chief executive, said in an interview.
He dismissed efforts by Hong Kong investment manager Regent Pacific Group, which holds three percent of Hambros, to break up the firm in an attempt to realise shareholder value.
"Regent is a three percent shareholder and is perfectly entitled to (its) views. We are perfectly entitled not to share them," Keswick said.
Hambros reported pretax profits of 35.0 million pounds ($57.81 million) for the first half, compared with a 7.7 million pound loss for the same period in 1995.
Some analysts had forecast pretax profits of up to 45.0 million pounds based on a strong performance by Hambros' estate agent subsidiary Hambro Countrywide.
They also predicted an interim dividend range of between 2.5 and 3.0 pence. In the event the dividend was unchanged at 2.5 pence.
Hambros is among a dwindling list of British investment banks which are the constant subject of takeover speculation. However, it has been seen as one of the less attractive targets due to recent poor performance and major provisions for bad debts.
Bad debt provisions for the period were 5.9 million pounds compared with 23.5 million in the same period in 1995.
Asked about the possibility of Hambros becomin a takeover target for a larger international player, Keswick said a public company was always in the firing line but he was happy with the group's direction.
While he could not talk for shareholders in the group, Keswick said he had the impression from discussions with them in the wake of the Regent Pacific move that they were supportive of changes the company had implemented.
Keswick said the group was on track to replace "low margin vanilla business" with increased return per customer business. It had decided the best strategy was to undergo major upheavals for a year rather than piecemeal changes over a longer period in order to achieve this.
Keswick, who forecast the benefits of the changes could take a year or two to come through, said he was pleased the group had moved back into profit, adding that the Investment Group's result had been particularly good.
But Hambros chairman Lord Hambro warned that profits from this part of the business were not expected to match the first half in the rest of the year.
However, he expected "considerable improvement" from Hambros' subsidiaries and, despite a challenging environment for the group as a whole, prospects were good.
Lord Hambro said he would retire from his post in July 1997 and be succeeded by Keswick.
"Chips will inevitably be a hands-on chairman," Michael Sorkin, deputy chairman of Hambros Bank, said. ($1=.6054 Pound)
French carmakers Renault SA and Peugeot PSA said on Wednesday that they were in talks with the government on a long-term plan to rejuvenate their workforce.
But the companies did not confirm a newspaper report they were seeking approval for a five-year plan to cut 40,000 jobs in an early retirement scheme in exchange for hiring 14,000 young people. Newspaper Les Echos said the cost of these operations could be 30 billion francs ($6 billion).
"Our chairman Louis Schweitzer and Peugeot chairman Jacques Calvet have written a letter to Prime Minister Alain Juppe in July with a proposal," a Renault spokeswoman said.
"There have been discussions since but the government has not yet replied," she added.
At Peugeot, officials declined to comment on the existence of the letter but a spokesman said that the French car industry needed to rejuvenate its work force.
"In France, the average age of a car worker is 42 to 43 years but our competitors, especially Asian, have an average age of below 30 years," the Peugeot spokesman said.
He said that this gave Peugeot and Renault a competitive handicap at a time when the markets are increasingly being opened up -- from 1999 a quota system limiting Japanese car imports in Europe will be lifted.
Younger workers are not only cheaper but also more flexible and open to new techniques such as "empowerment" - a management idea giving workers more responsibility for their own work, the Peugeot official said.
At Renault the average age is 45 years. "We have old factories, the oldest is at Flins which dates from the war, and therefore the average age is rather high," the Renault spokeswoman said.
Renault had a worldwide staff of 139,950 people at the end of 1995. Of them, 72,163 were involved in car production in France.
At PSA Peugeot Citroen, the group number is 139,900 of whom 122,600 are in car production in France.
French car makers are experiencing difficulties and a two-year government old-for-new car incentive scheme has not helped to overcome market problems.
The French auto industry is hit by increased competition from Asian rivals as well as by the strength of the franc.
Renault expects to end 1995 in the red after posting a net attributable profit of 2.1 billion francs in 1995 while Peugeot reported a drop in first half net attributable profits to 602 million francs against 1.22 billion last year.
Renault is cutting 1,650 jobs in 1996 through early retirement and partial early retirement schemes and will in January start negotiations with its labour unions about the 1997 restructuring plan.
At Peugeot, there is a reduction of 3,000 to 4,000 in the job numbers each year and there too, new negotiations are due to start early 1997.
"French carmakers have a record of trying to adapt to the market conditions without resorting to mass lay-offs, like for instance our German neighbours have done," the spokesman said.
($1=5.057 French Franc)
The head of the Czech Republic's largest bank is on a crusade to clean up the emerging post-communist banking sector from within and, he hopes, from a seat in the Senate.
Dr Richard Salzmann, the bow-tied president of Komercni Banka, says the Czech banking system is fundamentally sound and getting stronger despite a handful of recent failures among smaller institutions.
But, he says, the whole Czech economy needed a dose of "fairness and transparency" to clean up old habits of secrecy and ensure banks are not run as private fiefdoms.
He is standing for a seat in the newly-established Czech Senate at elections in November, saying he wants to help bring back "good manners" to the banking industry and restore the reputation of the Czech finance sector.
Better risk management is crucial, according to Salzmann.
He said that Komercni and the three other large banks -- which comprise about 80 percent of all Czech banking activity -- had bolstered their reserves to meet Western banking standards, and had developed more effective risk management techniques.
"As concerns 'The Big Four', (the situation) is, for sure, very good, because all these big four banks in the last years have built up huge reserves," Salzmann said during a visit to the PGA Czech Open golf tournament here recently.
"It's true that we have an unusually high proportion of risky loans in our portfolios, which is partially inherited from the past. Other (bad loans) were made in this era of euphoria, after the (1989 revolution ending Communism)."
He said from branches to front office, Komercni has stepped up risk management techniques which have now been also adopted by Ceska Sporitelna, Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka, and Investicni a Postovni Banka -- the others in "The Big Four".
"Now we are in the final stage when we are building a central risk assessment department, which supervises all kinds of risks, not only from credit but also from the capital market operations and from the foreign operations."
FAILURES EXPOSE PROBLEMS
Salzmann said he believed the recent failure of Kreditni Banka a.s., a medium-sized bank which became the eighth to shut in the post-communist era, stemmed, like others before it, from greed and naivete.
"I would blame mostly the founders of the banks, because they provided for themselves various kinds of privileges. They were, in most cases in my opinion, those who did not come with the intention to rob the money and disappear or something like that, I don't say that," Salzmann contended.
"But many of them founded the bank with false ideas that (their) bank would be able to provide themselves with easier conditions and lower prices for money for their internal use."
Salzmann said these bad lending practices spiraled until the banks were forced to raise their rates and tighten lending conditions for regular customers.
"This snowballed from the naivete at the beginning," he said.
Kreditni suffered losses reportedly at more than 10 billion Czech crowns ($381.1 million) through a series of large loan defaults and on August 8 the central bank withdrew its banking licence.
The local press has been ripe with allegations of mismanagement and murky loan operations at many of the failed institutions, but criminal investigations have yet to produce any charges.
Officials from Kreditni Banka have refused to comment on reasons for its failure, but its controlling shareholder, the large insurer Ceska Pojistovna, chalked it up simply to bad decisions by bank management on loans and loan guarantees.
Salzmann, 67, said problems in the banking system were part of a bigger problem of honesty and fairness throughout the economy.
He said that if elected, he would push to expand the enforcement power of regulators to police dubious practices in banks, investment funds, and on the capital market, which is consistently hampered by charges of insider trading.
BANKER SEEKS POLITICAL PLATFORM
"My (candidacy), is to bring to this freshly-introduced capitalism more decency...a better field for good business," said Salzmann.
The erudite banker, who often recalls the days of thriving Czech capitalism between wars, said he would work in the Senate to establish an independent capital market watchdog like the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Salzmann resigned as the chairman of the Prague Stock Exchange earlier this year -- a mostly honorary position -- to allow his friend and party colleague Tomas Jezek to take over as a full-time, hands-on leader of the bourse.
Both Jezek and Salzmann will run for the Senate in separate constituencies, and both support starting up a market-supported watchdog beefed up from the currently understaffed and underfunded Finance Ministry regulation department.
But Salzmann, who said he cannot by contract retire from the bank for at least one more year, rejects charges that his membership in the Senate while heading the country's largest banking group would constitute a conflict of interest. There is no legal requirement in the Czech Republic for legislators to suspend their business interests when they enter parliament.
Salzmann insists he would never use his Senate seat to gain advantages for his bank, but he makes no apologies about using his seat to try to improve the banking and business environment overall.
"I will support all such measures to bring more fairness, decency, good manners, transparency, all those principals which are, of course, favourable for the banks. So in that sense I will be perhaps in a conflict of interest," Salzmann said.
When asked if that meant he would support laws which would separate the banks and their investment arms, many of which control major chunks of the Czech economy -- like at Komercni Banka -- Salzmann answered:
"Yes, transparency, mandatory transparency."
($1=26.24 Czech Crown)
The Czech government's tourism office on Wednesday forecast record income from foreign visits in 1996, as "Golden Prague" and its environs put a silver lining in otherwise dreary Czech trade figures.
Income from foreign visitors, crucial in stemming the Czech current account deficit, could surge to top $3.5 billion this year, up from a record $2.87 billion in 1995, director Jiri Cech of the Economics Ministry's tourism division told Reuters.
He said 1996 record revenue from tourism in the Czech Republic, which has yet to see any slowing in the flood of tourists which burst in after the end of Communism in 1989, would range "from $3.2 to $3.5 billion or more".
The Czech National Bank balance of payment figures for the first half of the year -- which will give clearer picture of the balance of services -- are expected to be released in the first half of September.
The tourism component of the first quarter balance of payments showed a net inflow of $261 million with total tourism receipts of $581 million, and analysts have forecast first half total tourism revenues at about $1.6 billion.
The overall current account however posted a $505 million deficit in the first quarter, mostly due to a ballooning merchandise trade deficit.
The trade deficit in goods has accelerated in recent months, and a record gap in July of 16.4 billion crowns ($627 million) raised the seven-month 1996 deficit to 85.3 billion crowns ($3.26 billion).
Economists are forecasting the 1996 current account deficit at between five to six percent of gross domestic product, compared with about four percent last year.
But just in the first half of the year, record tourist visits to the country, and especially to the historical centre of the capital Prague where tourists often outnumber residents in the high season, topped most expectations.
The overall number of tourist visits in the country was up 11.6 percent in the first half, year-on-year, to 44.7 million and airport arrivals were up 48.4 percent to 7.3 million, according to the Czech Statistical Bureau.
Czech foreign travel abroad rose 10.2 percent in the first half of the year to 4.3 million visits abroad for a country of 10.4 million residents. Czechs spent $320 million abroad in the first quarter.
Independent analysts are forecasting a surplus in the Czech balance of services, including tourism of $1.8 to $2.0 billion this year. ($1=26.17 Czech Crowns)
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Apple Computer Inc. said Tuesday it plans to to work with a restaurant operator to open cybercafes in the United States and Europe starting late next year.
The third-biggest maker of personal computers licensed its name and famous half-eaten apple logo to London-based Mega Bytes International BVI, a developer of theme parks. Mega Bytes will develop a high-tech chain of eateries where patrons can surf the Internet, play games and eat.
Apple said the restaurants are part of its plan to spread its famous brand into the everyday world, as other non-gourmet companies, such as Harley-Davidson Motorcyles and Nike Inc., have done.
The first restaurant, slated to open in Los Angeles in late 1997, will flaunt Apple's computers at every table, the company said. Customers can browse the World Wide Web with high-speed access, check out the latest CD-ROM titles and send e-mail.
Restaurants in London, Paris, New York, Tokyo and other cities will follow, Apple said.
Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., will only make money from the licensing agreement, an Apple spokeswoman said. Terms of the agreement weren't disclosed. Mega Bytes will run the restaurants.
Russian diamond giant Almazy- Rossii Sakha (ARS) said on Wednesday officials were battling for control over Russia's lucrative gem sector but a forthcoming deal with De Beers was in sight.
ARS president Vyacheslav Shtyrov told a news conference that a long-delayed trade agreement with the South African gem giant could be signed by December.
But he said Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, who could have a chance to sign the deal as soon as this week, would put it off until next month because of a government probe of ARS's finances -- a probe Shtyrov says may be part of manoevres among government officials for influence over the group.
The investigation and struggle for control over ARS come as the diamond company seeks more scope to export independently of De Beers. ARS supplies a quarter of De Beers output, nearly all Russia's diamonds and is Russia's sole authorised exporter.
Shtyrov said that under the trade agreement with De Beers, based on a memorandum initialled in February, ARS would have the right to export $180 million of gems a year independent of De Beers, or 5.8 percent of ARS's $1.38 billion in sales last year.
That could yield a rich trove of influence and power for whichever government ministries succeed in gaining the upper hand in controlling those sales.
ARS, which gave London investment bank NatWest Markets a mandate in July to raise $500 million in capital, wants to increase exploration and mining operations -- giving officials more incentive to grapple for control of the state-owned firm.
"We're very seriously worried about the recent accusations, which come at, and I say this in quotation marks, at an appropriate moment," said Mikhail Nikolayev, president of the vast Sakha-Yakutia region in Siberia where ARS is based.
He told the news conference he was referring to the impending De Beers deal and to ARS's plan to raise funds abroad.
The probe, which follows charges from tax officials and the prosecutor-general's office that surfaced last week, revolve around alleged unpaid taxes and breaches of hard currency regulations for which fines could total $379 million.
Nikolayev said ARS had no tax arrears to the federal budget, and that Finance Ministry investigations into ARS finances turned up so-called insufficiencies but no major problems.
"They (the charges) are extremely debatable," said Shtyrov, adding that government questions over how to value raw gems supplied to ARS when the company was set up in 1991 were questions for accountants, not for lawyers.
He said ARS would defend itself in Russia's courts if it had to and restore its reputation with partners.
"If the result of all of this is that we lose our investment projects, then we will consider that Russia has lost -- and we will just eat bread and butter," he said.
Shtyrov, who is also vice-president of Sakha-Yakutia, said industry officials were struggling for influence over ARS.
Shtyrov said Yevgeny Bychkov, former head of the recently disbanded State Committee for Precious Metals and Stones, or Komdragmet, was still an influential figure in the industry.
Komdragment was broken up by presidential decree in August and the Finance Ministry has assumed its functions.
Shtyrov said Russia's diamond sector would see stability, in spite of plans by some officials to give domestic cutters and polishers a greater cut of gem output.
"There are always rumours of a major shake-up and reorganisation of the Russian diamond industry, but they are not founded," he said.
France's state-owned electricity utility Electricite de France (EDF) said on Wednesday it had made a 850 million franc asset gain selling its 10 percent stake in Sweden's Sydkraft AB to Norway's Statkraft SF.
"It allows us to realise a big asset gain and the deal is also the start of an alliance with Statkraft," EDF chairman Edmond Alphandery told a news conference.
EDF officials said the alliance with Statkraft, also a state-owned utility, would mainly be in the form of cooperation in hydroelectric projects in southeast Asia.
EDF is selling its 6.808 million class A and 12.395 million class C shares in Sydkraft AB to Statkraft for a sum of 2.130 billion francs. This allows the Norwegian firm to increase its stake in Sydkraft to 15 percent. The formal transfer of ownership will take place in November.
EDF took its stake in Sydkraft, Sweden's biggest power firm, two years ago but it changed its strategy in April when its Northelec unit obtained a 25 percent stake in Graningeverkens AB, Sweden's number six power group. It later raised the stake.
Northelec is a joint venture with Skanska.
"It's better to have a big stake in a small company than to have a small stake in a big company," Alphandery said.
"At Sydkraft we did not even have a seat on the board, at Graninge we have a shareholders' pact allowing us to effectively control the company," he added.
EDF has a shareholders pact with Sweden's industrial family Versteegh and jointly they own 54 percent of Graninge.
"We saw the strategic value of the Nordic market and we have been able to cash in on the asset gain because the value of Sydkraft shares has risen a lot," he said.
Alphandery, a former economics minister named to EDF in November to replace Gilles Menage who was an appointee of the former Socialist government and an aide to Francois Mitterand, said the sale was proof of EDF's willingness to "realise an asset gain when there is one."
He did not expect further sales from EDF's international portfolio. The French utility in 1996 alone has made commitments totalling 4.6 billion francs in foreign stakes and Alphandery said EDF would continue its expansion mainly in the Mercosur area in Latin America and in southeast Asia including China.
EDF obtained a stake in Brazil's Rio de Janeiro power utility Light and Edenor in Argentina. Last year, it obtained stakes in two Hungarian companies. It als has investments in Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ivory Coast and South Africa.
"We can use the asset gain on Sydkraft to finance our international expansion," Alphandery said.
"This refocusing of Northern European strategy shows EDF's desire to be a major international and industrial operator, actively managing its investment portfolio," EDF said.
EDF's decision to leave Sydkraft makes Germany's Preussen Elektra AG, a unit of Veba AG, the biggest shareholder with 17.6 percent of shares and 27.1 percent of votes. The city of Malmo is second biggest with 11.8 percent of shares and 18.9 percent of votes, followed by Statkraft and some pension funds.
Sydkraft has a 20 percent stake in Graninge and Veba's Preussenelektra 12.4 percent.
U.S.-based Dominion Resources on Wednesday agreed a 1.3 billion pound ($2.15 billion) takeover of East Midlands Electricity, one of only five remaining British independent regional electricity companies (Recs).
But doubts that the deal would make it past UK competition authorities as political pressures gather ahead of a general election due by May 1997 kept the lid on share prices.
Executives from both firms told a press conference they saw no reason for a referral of the 670 pence per share bid, the fifth by a U.S. utility for a Rec, to the UK's Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
But East Midlands shares closed up only 12 pence at 623 pence, as concerns grew trade secretary Ian Lang might halt this latest in a wave of bids in which seven of the 12 cash-rich Recs have been snapped up since expiry of a protective golden share last March, five years from privatisation.
"Everyone's expecting the MMC to take a close look at the deal. That is why the shares are only trading around 630 pence," said one trader.
Three of the seven Recs sold have already gone to U.S. utilities which are attracted by relatively loose UK regulation.
Only two bids have so far been blocked by trade secretary Ian Lang, who stunned the market by stopping generators National Power and PowerGen from consuming two Recs earlier this year.
Executives from Dominion met East Midlands management late on Tuesday with a takeover price top of the agenda.
The Virginia-based company said last week it was considering a bid "at a price not much in excess of 608 pence per share." But East Midlands rejected that, saying it would undervalue the Nottingham-based electricity company's prospects.
East Midlands chairman Sir Nigel Rudd said in a joint statement that his board was recommending the current offer "because it represents fair value for an excellent business, which has successfully differentiated itself from the sector."
"Dominion's offer looks a fair compromise price," said Chris Perry, utilities analyst at Charterhouse Tilney.
Dominion chairman Tom Capps told a press conference that the company had looked at many Recs but focused on East Midlands in spring as it "liked the management...and the way the numbers fitted with ours."
Chief financial officer Linwood Robertson told Reuters that the company intended to run its target as a stand-alone business and that it wanted to keep East Midlands' management team, which is highly regarded by industry analysts.
East Midlands was the first of Britain's electricity utilities, which were privatised with strong cash balance sheets, to launch a special dividend to redistribute cash to shareholders, in November 1994. Robertson said Dominion looked forward to the diversification East Midlands would bring to it and said the U.S. company would bring strengths to the British firm.
The U.S. company has a 1.3 billion pound credit to fund its bid underwritten by NationsBank and Union Bank of Switzerland, banking sources said.
($1=.6054 Pound)
British merchant bank Hambros, under fire from a rebel Hong Kong shareholder calling for its breakup, reported a return to first-half profit on Wednesday and said the benefits of restructuring should begin to show through.
"We have great confidence in ourselves and what we are trying to do," said Sir Chips Keswick, group chief executive.
He dismissed efforts by Hong Kong investment manager Regent Pacific Group, which holds three percent of Hambros, to break up the firm in an attempt to realise shareholder value.
"Regent is a three percent shareholder and is perfectly entitled to (its) views. We are perfectly entitled not to share them," Keswick said.
This view was supported by analysts who said the subject of Regent's shareholding and its calls for Hambros to sell its now successful Hambro Countrywide estate agency subsidiary was not raised at their meeting with the company.
Hambros reported pretax profits of 35.0 million pounds ($57.81 million) for the first half, compared with a 7.7 million pound loss for the same period in 1995.
Some analysts had forecast pretax profits of up to 45.0 million pounds based on a strong Hambro Countrywide performance. But they were disappointed by a worse-than-expected showing by Hambros' banking group.
"People are going to be downgrading their figures, they wre expecting better profits from the banking side," an analyst at one large investment bank told Reuters.
He said it was disappointing Hambros had not done better in what were essentially good markets. "Clearly the banking side is struggling to do anything. Countrywide is the star," he added.
Analysts had predicted an interim dividend of 2.5 to 3.0 pence. In the event the dividend was unchanged at 2.5 pence.
Hambros shares closed down 7.5 pence at 245 pence.
Hambros is among a dwindling list of British investment banks which are the constant subject of takeover speculation. But it has been seen as one of the less attractive targets due to recent poor performance and major provisions for bad debts.
"I wouldn't have thought (a takeover) was terribly likely," said one analyst, adding that Hambros did not have the sort of distribution or securities operation an expanding investment bank would be seeking.
Asked whether Hambros was a takeover target, Keswick said a public company was always in the firing line but he was happy with the group's direction.
While he could not talk for shareholders in the group, Keswick said he had the impression from discussions with them in the wake of the Regent Pacific move that they were supportive of changes the company had implemented.
Keswick said it was on track to replace "low margin vanilla business" with increased return per customer business. It had decided it was best to undergo major upheavals for a year rather than piecemeal changes over a longer period to achieve this.
Keswick, who forecast the benefits of the changes could take a year or two to come through, said he was pleased the group had moved back into profit, adding that the Investment Group's result had been particularly good.
But Hambros chairman Lord Hambro warned profits from this part of the business were not expected to match the first half in the rest of the year. But he expected "considerable improvement" from Hambros' subsidiaries and, despite a challenging environment for the group, prospects were good.
Lord Hambro said he would retire from his post in July 1997 and be succeeded by Keswick. "Chips will inevitably be a hands-on chairman," Michael Sorkin, deputy chairman of Hambros Bank, said.
($1=.6054 Pound)
Sir Chippendale "Chips" Keswick who, it was announced on Wednesday, will take over the chair of Hambros, one of the few remaining British independent investment banks, has been regarded by some as an outsider.
The firm has been dominated by the Hambro family but Keswick, 56, has over 30 years under his belt at the bank where he will fill both the chairman's and chief executive roles from July next year. He can hardly be called a complete outsider.
Nevertheless, it will be the first time in the bank's history that a Hambro has not occupied the chair.
That history is a long one, dating back to 1839 in London and back into the 18th century and its Danish origins.
Universally known as "Chips", Keswick is a member of the family which controls the Jardine group of companies in the Far East. He was born in Shanghai in 1940 and attended Eton College completing his studies at a French university.
After a few years with Glynn Williams, Keswick joined Hambros Bank in 1965. He became chairman of the bank in 1986, vice-chairman of the group in the same year and chief executive last year.
Keswick is known as a private person who is much more at home talking about the business than about himself.
Married with three sons, Keswick is a non-executive director of the Bank of England as well as of De Beers Consolidated Mines, Anglo American and British housebuilder Persimmon.
He lists his pastimes as bridge and field sports.
Keswick, who takes over from Charles, Lord Hambro, chairman since 1983, has been involved with the bank during some recently troubled times.
Hambros had appeared to lose its way, not following its peers into the competitive world of modern investment banking but still managing to make losses.
Ironically, along with a few others, it has managed to remain independent while other names such as S.G. Warburg, Kleinwort Benson, Barings and Morgan Grenfell have fallen into the hands of foreign parents.
Some observers would remark that Hambros wasn't worth buying but those people are beginning to feel that Hambros' new strategy of concentrating on its core banking and investment management businesses could be the way forward.
Keswick says he is confident of the strategy and is unlikely to be be aloof from the business.
"Chips will inevitably be a hands-on chairman," one of his senior colleagues said.
Political pressures ahead of a general election may mean the latest bids in a wave of takeovers of British regional electricity companies (Recs) do not get a rapid nod from the UK government, analysts said on Wednesday.
"A referral (to competition authorities) is a distinct possibility. I think it is a 50-50 shot," said Gordon Culfeather, utilities analyst at Greig Middleton.
Seven of the original 12 cash-rich Recs have now been sold in a flurry of takeovers since they came up for grabs last March after the government's protective golden share expired, five years after privatisation in 1990.
Three of those have been sold to U.S. utilities, who see the UK sector as an opportunity to expand outside U.S. regulatory shackles, particularly into a market which is scheduled to be liberalised to supply competition in 1998.
The latest bid is from  U.S. energy group Dominion Resources which agreed to pay 1.3 billion pounds ($2.15 billion) on Wednesday to take control of East Midlands Electricity, one of only five remaining independent Recs, in an a offer at 670 pence per share.
Northern Electric faces its second hostile approach in less than two years as it battles to throw off a 630 pence per share bid from CE Electric, a unit of U.S.-based CalEnergy, which has already snapped up 29 percent of its target.
Only two bids have so far been blocked by trade secretary Ian Lang, who stunned the market by stopping generators National Power and PowerGen from consuming two Recs earlier this year.
Another two Recs fell prey to their regional water and sewerage companies, while industrial conglomerate Hanson picked up Eastern Electricity, which it now aims to spin off as part of a separate business under its demerger plans.
The remaining victim was Manweb, which succumbed to Scottish Power, an aggressively expansive electricity generator and distributor based in Scotland.
Dominion and East Midlands said they saw no reason for their deal to be referred to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC), adding that a meeting was scheduled with industry watchdog Offer, which initially consults on bids.
"If Lang was following a consistent route, he would not stop these latest bids," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"But if I were a regulator, I would probably want at least five firms to make comparisons," he added.
Offer head Stephen Littlechild will send his advice on both bids to Lang for the trade secretary to decide whether they should be referred to the MMC.
Another pressure on Lang is the prospect of a general election, which must be held by May 1997, with the opposition Labour party running ahead in opinion polls and allegations of sleaze miring the current Conservative government.
Its privatisations, which have seen most of Britain's strategic industries sold off, have been heavily criticised for huge executive pay packets, hefty shareholder payouts and heady takeovers which value firms well above privatisation levels.
Labour, which has vowed to levy a "windfall" tax on privatised utilities, said in an opening salvo on the latest bids that it planned "tough, efficient regulation wherever necessary in the privatised utilities and we intend to see it enforced whoever is the owner."
Lang could chose to refer the bids to the MMC in order to delay any decision on this hot political issue beyond an election, some analysts said.
The market on Wednesday showed its concerns by capping share prices at well below the bid levels, with Northern trading at 592 pence per share by 1450 GMT and East Midlands at 623 pence.
"The market is holding its breath on this issue," Culfeather said. ($1=.6054 Pound)
Toronto stocks ended softer due to a sell-off in financial services on Wednesday, while the value of trading was the third-highest ever.
The Toronto Stock Exchange key 300 Composite Index fell 7.96 points to close at 5799.01 points, before setting a new intra-day high of 5816.40 points.
Trading volume was 133.2 million shares worth C$2.29 billion (US$1.7 billion). The TSE's highest trading value was C$2.53 billion (US$1.9 billion), set in April 1986.
RBC Dominion Securities analyst Dunnery Best noted that bank stocks were retreating from their recent rally.
"Weaker bond markets are fueling the shift away from the interest sensitives into the more glorious investing terrain of golds and the cyclicals," Best said in a market report.
Ron Meisels, president of P and C Holdings Ltd., added that a pause was warranted since the TSE 300 Index has added about 200 points since November 5.
"It would be quite normal and understandable for it to have a correction after such a robust move," Meisels said.
Toronto's 14 sub-indices were evenly split between rising and falling groups. Pipelines lost the most ground, followed by banks, utilities, and conglomerates.
Golds, base metals and communications led the strong side.
Advancing issues edged out declining ones 492 to 473 while 315 traded flat.
Among hot stocks, nickel giant Inco Ltd. rose C$1.80 to finish at C$45.95 in heavy trading.
Gold firm Euro-Nevada Mining Corp Ltd. topped net gainers, adding C$2.55 to close at C$42.80 in moderate trading.
Royal Bank of Canada lost C$0.95 to finish at C$45.05 in brisk trading, while Toronto-Dominion Bank fell C$0.75 to end at C$32.65.
Canada's largest publicly traded firm, telecommunications conglomerate BCE Inc., lost C$1.15 to close at C$62.60 on volume of about one million shares.
The three-party Czech coalition cabinet on Wednesday agreed to quickly find a new director for the country's secret service following the resignation of its former chief amid a pre-election political spying row.
Prime Minster Vaclav Klaus, head of the senior coalition Civic Democratic Party (ODS), told a news conference that each coalition party had been asked to propose a candidate acceptable for all parties to lead the BIS "as soon as possible".
Acting-director Stanislav Devaty resigned on Monday after the head of junior coalition partner, Christian Democratic Union (KDU-CSL) Josef Lux accused the BIS last Friday of spying on him three years ago and then covering it up.
He requested Devaty's dismissal along with the right-wing Civic Demopcratic Alliance (ODA), the other coalition member which had already made similar claims last year.
The government charged Devaty's deputy, Jaroslav Jiru, to lead the BIS until a new director is named, Klaus said.
The affair hotted up just a week before Senate elections, a key test of Klaus's government which lost its majority in the lower house of parliament in June elections.
The Senate has only limited powers but analysts say the outcome of the polls will be a significant indicator for the future of Klaus's centre-right cabinet. The allegations within the coalition were potentially damaging ahead of the vote.
Klaus said the ministers were also asked to consider how to tighten control over BIS.
Analysts say if Klaus's party fares well in the elections, his government's position may be eased. But he might find it hard to stay in office if his position is weak in both houses.
Klaus said ministers were disturbed by opposition Social Democrat chairman of parliament Milos Zeman who had suggested the Interior Ministry had joined the BIS in creating "political police" groups shadowing politicians.
"All members of the cabinet expressed their irritation from the statements of the second constitutional official of this country, by which he in fact threw in doubt the credibility of the constitution system of the Czech Republic," Klaus said.
President Vaclav Havel has called Zeman's statements "extremely irresponsible" and said the opposition leader should go through formal channels he has proof of his accusations.
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus said on Wednesday that there was no reason to hurry the privatisation of the country's four largest banks.
"(The privatisation) does not have any exceptional level of urgency," Klaus told a news conference after a cabinet meeting.
He said the cabinet would wait until the central bank submitted a more complete plan to the cabinet for the privatisation of the remaining state shares in the large banks.
"It is irrelevant if it is two or three weeks later or two or three weeks sooner," Klaus said.
The central bank and the finance ministry have both called for the rapid privatisation of the state's roughly one-third stake in Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. to a strategic foreign partner.
Japan-based investment bank Nomura and Dutch ING Bank NV are both said to have a strong interest in the IPB stake.
The Czech National Bank, the central bank, also has called for the merger of the largest savings bank Ceska Sporitelna a.s., with the foreign trade bank Ceskovslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s..
If the merger goes ahead, forming a bank with 540 billion crowns ($20.16 billion) in assets based on end-1995 results, the plan would be to privatise the new megabank several years later.
Klaus has balked at the merger plan, saying that it was akin to merging Prague's two top soccer clubs, Sparta and Slavia, which would be hard for Czechs to imagine.
The prime minister has reacted favourably in recent weeks to news that Nomura was keen to buy the state's stake in IPB.
At the news conference Klaus bristled at a series of questions on the subject by foreign news agencies. When asked specifically about the timing of IPB's privatisation Klaus said: "I don't know if this is the question of some lobbyist who wants to buy some bank fast, or really the general interest of a journalist."
"From the point of view of the first (case)," he continued, "then I think that a party interested in buying or who instigates you into this question is probably in a hurry."
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003 ($1=26.78 Czech Crown)
A Czech central bank scheme to buy doubtful debts of smaller banks and restore stability to the banking sector has attracted interest from about 10 banks, the Czech news agency reported on Wednesday.
CTK, quoting central bank spokesman Martin Svehla, said that of the 13 banks allowed to participate in the plan, the number that had expressed an interest in joining "is nearing 10".
Central bank officials were not immediately available for comment.
The Czech National Bank (CNB) outlined the programme in mid-October followed the failure of Kreditni Banka in August -- the 11th bank in which the CNB had intervened -- and the politicisation of the case which had undermined confidence especially in small banks.
Under the plan, participating banks must follow strict conditions and allow the central bank to make management changes where needed. CNB officials said the programme was not aimed at resolving a problem at any one bank.
The plan will be open to all small private banks with total paid-in capital of 12.5 billion crowns ($458.5 million) and total assets of not more than 30 billion crowns.
The state-run Konsolidacni Banka would buy the banks' doubtful assets at face value.
The banks will be required to buy back the assets after around five to seven years, again priced at their nominal value, minus credits recovered by Konsolidacni from the debtors in the meantime.
Banks seeking to participate will be held to strict requirements which include sticking to a three-year stabilisation plan and an agreement to attain an eight percent capital adequacy ratio.
Banks also must maintain cost controls, profitability and liquidity as well as agreeing to frequent reviews by the central bank.
The maximum purchase of debt by Konsolidacni can total up to 110 percent of a single bank's paid-in capital, meaning a maximum exposure for the state of 13.7 billion crowns in total if all eligible banks participated.
The programme is voluntary based on a contract with the CNB, and the central bank said it would not reveal which banks elected to participate.
Banks eligible include Ekoagrobanka, Union Banka, Evrobanka, Prvni Mestska Banka, COOP Banka, Pragobanka, Plzenska Banka, Foresbank, Bankovni Dum Skala, Moravia Banka, Universal Banka, Zemska Banka, and Banka Hana.
Money for the scheme is to come primarily from state- controlled Konsolidacni Banka and if necessary from the CNB itself. A newly created unit of Konsolidacni, Ceska Financni s.r.o., will administer the programme.
Any losses from the programme are to be covered by the National Property Fund (NPF), the state privatisation agency.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Colombia moved a step closer to lifting its five-year ban on extradition but backlash from drug traffickers began to be felt on Wednesday as a senator fled abroad to escape death threats.
In the second of eight scheduled congressional votes late on Tuesday, the Senate approved a draft law to overturn the constitutional ban on sending criminals to stand trial in foreign courts. But proposals in Congress to introduce stiffer anti-drug laws at home, including confiscation of drug barons' properties and longer jail terms, have stagnated.
This has led to a warning from the government, eager to win back U.S. certification as an ally in the drug war, that it may bypass Congress and push through some of the measures by decree, which could trigger a constitutional crisis.
Meanwhile, signs were growing that Colombia may be on the verge of a new terror campaign, mirroring the one waged by the late Pablo Escobar, head of the Medellin drug cartel, that forced the original extradition ban in 1991.
Police last week defused a powerful bomb in a vehicle parked outside a chemical plant owned by relatives of Senator Claudia Blum in Colombia's second largest city Cali, home to the cartel said to supply 80 percent of world cocaine. In another incident, a small bomb exploded outside government offices in Bogota.
Blum and other lawmakers in the forefront of efforts to lift the extradition ban and introduce tougher anti-drug laws have received regular death threats since mid-October. In a letter to congress on Tuesday, Blum requested a leave of absence and a spokeswoman at her Bogota office said on Wednesday that she had left for the United States.
"I understand she left because of the threats she has received. Her departure was rather quick and unexpected. She has gone for an indefinite period," the spokeswoman said.
Justice Minister Carlos Medellin welcomed Tuesday's senate vote, describing it as a "clear message that all political institutions are committed to strengthening our legal system".
But chief prosecutor Alfonso Valdivieso, an anti-drug crusader and a favourite of Washington, is deeply dissatisfied with the draft law to renew extradition. Echoing calls by the United States, he believes the law must be retroactive.
Valdivieso has also charged that the extradition law, if approved in its present form, would be virtually meaningless, since it would not allow for criminals to be extradited if they faced stiffer penalties abroad than those in force in Colombia, which the United States complains are too lenient.
The current bill would dash U.S. hopes of winning the extradition of the Rodriguez Orejuela brothers, the kingpins of the Cali cartel captured last year.
China's exports climbed again in October as slow demand at home encouraged companies to ship abroad and the government expanded credit to exporters, newspapers and a government economist said Wednesday.
The upturn was expected to continue through the first half of 1997, said Wang Jian, a researcher with the cabinet's State Planning Commission.
Exports rose for the fourth consecutive month in October, jumping 23.3 percent to $15.22 billion from a year ago, said the International Business Daily, a newspaper published by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
The performance helped the nation register its biggest monthly trade surplus of the year. The surplus stood at $3.9 billion in October compared with $3.2 billion in September, the newspaper said.
"This kind of rebound in exports ... is estimated to last until the first half of next year," Wang said in a telephone interview. Wang said slow domestic demand has forced manufacturers to look to overseas markets.
Also, domestic enterprises had adjusted to a cut in government-paid export tax rebates, he said. The government slashed the rebate on exports of industrial products to 9.0 percent from 14.0 percent on January 1, 1996.
The International Business Daily said exports rebounded because the government sped up the payment of export tax rebates and expanded credit to exporters.
Exports slumped in the first six months of 1996, dented by rising wages and the relative strength of the currency.
A slowdown in government payments of tax rebates to exporters had also discouraged many firms from exporting their goods earlier in the year. Many of those firms focused sales on the domestic market instead.
However, the government has been stepping up payment of export rebates to try to revive exports.
Imports inched up 3 percent to $11.31 billion in October from October 1995, the Business Daily said.
The import data showed that the impact of this year's tariff cuts has gradually weakened, it said.
In the first 10 months of this year, China's exports totalled $119.22 billion, mostly unchanged from the same 1995 period, the newspaper said. But imports added up to $107.21 billion, a rise of 5.5 percent from the year-ago period.
Japan, the United States and Europe remained China's largest export markets.
China's exports to Japan rose a year-on-year 8.6 percent to $24.5 billion in the first 10 months of this year, the daily said. Exports to the United States and Europe increased 5.5 percent and 4.5 percent to $21.3 billion and $18.9 billion respectively.
Chinese leaders Wednesday denounced Beijing's exclusion from the World Trade Organisation as unjust, saying the giant Communist nation had made great strides in opening its markets to trade and investment.
Protectionism or trade sanctions should not be policy tools in a world increasingly dependent on international trade, Minister for Economic Restructuring Li Tieying said at a meeting of business executives.
"It is unjust to exclude China from the World Trade Organisation," Li told a business summit in Beijing.
"A World Trade Organisation without China is incomplete," said Li, who is also a member of the Communist Party's elite Politburo. "We hope this situation will quickly change."
Chinese officials say Beijing should be allowed to join the WTO on lenient terms as a developing country. They blame the United States for blocking their accession with tough demands for more open markets.
Disagreement over the terms of Beijing's admission to the WTO, which Washington says should take into account China's huge and fast-growing economic clout, is just one of a number of disputes that have long troubled Sino-U.S. ties.
Rows over copyright piracy, arms proliferation, human rights and Taiwan have all strained relations in recent years, with Washington's annual review of China's Most Favoured Nation trade status triggering some of the bitterest rhetoric.
China has urged Washington to make MFN status permanent, and Li warned Washington that the United States would lose if MFN was revoked.
"If the United States cancels China's Most Favoured Nation treatment, and imported the same goods from other countries, then U.S. consumers would have to spend $14 billion more every year," he quoted World Bank statistics as showing.
Beijing and Washington earlier this year went to the brink of a trade war after Washington announced punitive sanctions over widespread copyright piracy in China.
In a pointed reference to such disputes, Li said tough trade tactics should not be overused, but did not mention the United States by name.
"The new international economic order ... should not have any kind of trade protectionism or discriminatory policies and the big stick of sanctions should certainly not be wielded at every opportunity," he said.
China's growing trade surplus with the United States is also widely seen as a barrier to warmer Sino-U.S. relations.
U.S. embassy officials said Wednesday that the top U.S. textile negotiator had postponed her trip to China for talks in the face of U.S. sanctions on Chinese textiles and a threat by Beijing to retaliate.
Chinese exports to the United States in the first 10 months had increased by 5.5 percent to $21.3 billion, official Chinese newspapers said Wednesday. They gave no details for imports.
China would, if requested by Hong Kong, provide its support to stabilise fluctuations in the territory's financial markets after the handover next year, China's central bank governor said on Wednesday.
"In case of need, the People's Bank of China will, at the request of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) and in accordance with the Basic Law and market practices, provide its support," said Dai Xianglong during a dinner speech to the Hong Kong Association of Banks.
But Dai said he believed the HKMA was fully capable of handling fluctuations in Hong Kong's financial markets around the handover.
The British colony reverts to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30, 1997. Under joint Sino-British treaties, Hong Kong will maintain its own separate financial regime and currency.
Dai did not elaborate on what measures the central bank would take if the need arose.
In response to reporters questions, Dai said there was no truth in recent press reports that China was putting together a 300 billion yuan fund to help stabilise Hong Kong's financial markets after the handover.
"I don't know where those reports came from. There is no such thing," Dai told reporters at a press conference after the dinner.
China's central bank was determined to let Hong Kong run its own financial system, he said.
"The People's Bank of China will not replace the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and will not set up any branches in Hong Kong," Dai said. "Mainland financial institutions in Hong Kong will not enjoy any special privileges. They will be subject to the same supervision of the financial regulatory authorities of Hong Kong on the same regulatory standards."
He also said Beijing would not levy any tax in Hong Kong nor would it, for any reason or in any manner, use Hong Kong's Exchange Fund or other assets.
Dai said mainland companies participating in Hong Kong's market would be on the same footing as foreign or Hong Kong firms.
Addressing concerns that Shanghai would overtake Hong Kong in financial importance, Dai said Shanghai's financial status would be enhanced in the future.
"However, for a relatively long period of time, it (Shanghai) will not be an international financial centre, let alone replace Hong Kong," he said.
Dai also said there was a close business relationship between China and Hong Kong.
Hong Kong investment in China reached US$78.6 billion by the end of 1995, accounting for 58 percent of total foreign investment in the mainland.
In 1995, 90 percent of syndicated loans in China were arranged in Hong Kong and 90 percent of Chinese enterprises listed overseas chose to list in Hong Kong.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
Polar Air Cargo is to start new services to New Delhi, Dubai, Bangkok, Kansai in Japan and Manila within the next four months, the all cargo carrier's executive vice president Jack Kane said.
Speaking after the handover of Polar's first Boeing 747-200 and 14th 747 freighter in all, Kane said the new acquistion from Air Hong Kong will offer longer ranges, higher weights and reduced fuel consumption for the company's Asian network which is about to rapidly expand.
Polar is awaiting final U.S. Depart of Transportation approval to begin flying to Kansai after agreement with the Japanese transportation ministry that Polar should become the third U.S. all cargo carrier, he said.
"The indications seem very favourable," he said.
The U.S.-based airline has also won permission to fly to Bangkok and expects to start services to Manila in the first quarter of 1997. With approval for Kansai, and new services to London and Amsterdam which began in April, Kane said the way is now opens for a round the world service to begin early next year.
"In the next 120 days we will inaugurate services to New Delhi, Dubai, Bangkok, Kansai and the Philippines," Kane told reporters.
When the Kansai operation begin, Polar expects to offer four cargo flights a week from Hong Kong to the U.S. west coast and five or six to east coast all via Anchorage . The 747-200 means Polar no longer has to stop in Khabarovsk in Russia to refuel.
Polar does not have rights into China but has been holding discussions with Chinese airlines on a possible joint venture. Kane declined to name the possible partners but said Polar has already cooperated with China Eastern on charter cargo flights.
Kane said Polar intends to start operating a second 747-200 aircraft, an ex Philippine Airlines Combi which is to be converted, in the first quarter of next year. The company's long term strategy is to acquire two or three 747-200 aircraft each year for the next five years bringing the fleet total then to 23 or 24 aircraft.
"Our commitment is to provide our customers with a global network and let them compete against the integrators," Kane said. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
The Hong Kong Shippers' Council is urging the government to tell airlines that a fuel surcharge on air cargo rates is illegal, the council's executive director Clement Yeung told Reuters.
Cargo managers from major airlines operating to Europe met in the territory on October 31 and some agreed to raise ex-Hong Kong cargo rates by HK80 cents per kilo from November 4 to try to offset increased jet fuel prices.
The Hong Kong Shippers' Council said it had written to the Civil Aviation Department urging it to outlaw the surcharge.
"We are reasonable people. We don't necessarily object to each and every increase but we feel the airlines should follow the rules by obtaining approval. Their case should be supported by facts and figures," Yeung said.
"In this case, it seems only a few airlines have decided to impose the surcharge. Others have not followed which begs the question: What is Hong Kong going to do about it and if airlines should be allowed to keep their surcharge? If they are, then it is a gross injustice to shippers and freight forwarders. The airlines should abide by the book and the governments should tell them it is illegal," Yeung said.
The council represents 15 of the leading trade associations in the territory including the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and the Chinese Manufacturers' Association.
The Federation of Asia Pacific Air Cargo Agents (FAPAA) is also reported to be opposing the fuel surcharge. A report in the South China Morning Post quoted its chairman Bernard Angeles as saying the airlines' surcharge bid might fail because they had not applied for approval from Hong Kong's Civil Aviation Department which he said was required by law.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
China has vowed to curb the influence of Buddhism in Tibet, saying religion would have to bow to socialism.
Monks outnumbered students and more money was spent on monasteries than on Communist Party buildings in the Himalayan region, the official Tibet Daily said in an edition seen in Beijing on Wednesday.
"In the basic interest of the Tibetan people, further development of temples, monks and nuns cannot be without restrictions," the newspaper said.
"Satisfying the basic needs of believers will do."
There were 1,787 temples in the restive region by early 1996, with 46,000 monks and nuns -- exceeding the number of high school students in the region, the newspaper said. It gave no comparative figures.
China has shut many temples in Tibet in recent years to uproot the influence of the region's spiritual god-king, the Dalai Lama, who fled into exile in India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against communist rule.
Socialism must take precedence over religion, the newspaper said.
"Religion must adapt to the development needs of socialism and not socialism adapting to the needs of religion. We must remain clear-headed on this principle," it said.
The Dalai Lama won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign for autonomy for his homeland, but Beijing views international support for Tibet's holiest man as a Western plot to return the region to feudal rule and split China.
Beijing says the Dalai Lama is a political activist and not a purely religious figure.
"International anti-Chinese forces use the Tibet issue to contain China's development and (the Tibet issue) is an important means to 'Westernise' and 'divide' China," the newspaper said.
"Some temples are directly or indirectly controlled by the Dalai Lama clique and become the headquarters and venue of separatist forces at home and abroad," the newspaper said.
"Since 1987, elements creating disturbances and sabotaging stability have been mainly law-breaking monks and nuns."
Tibet has been rocked by repeated anti-Chinese protests that Beijing charges are stirred up by supporters of the Dalai Lama.
The newspaper also complained that monks did not contribute to economic growth.
"It goes without saying that such a large number of strong young people relying on alms from the masses and not engaging in productive work has a negative effect on social and economic development," the newspaper said.
"Money spent on renovating temples is more than money spent on building or repairing Communist Party and government buildings," it said.
Beijing, eager not to antagonise all of the Buddhist clergy, has pumped 53 million yuan ($6.4 million) into its five-year renovation of the sprawling Potala Palace, winter home of the Dalai Lamas for centuries.
Shiva Corp stock rose five points Wednesday amid resurgent speculation that it may be an acquisition target of a major network equipment player.
    "It sure looks like people are speculating that its going to be taking over," said Robertson Stephens analyst Paul Johnson, who maintains a long-term attractive on the stock.
    Shiva shares have risen nearly 14 percent in the last two days. By early afternoon Wendesday, the stock was trading at 53-3/4, up 5 points on the day.
    Shiva declined comment on what it called "a market rumor."
 "We have had rumors like this before," said Cynthia Deysher, Shiva's chief financial officer. "Our firm policy on this is not to comment on market rumors," she said.
    Several analysts said signs of merger speculation were apparent in the stock's recent gains.
    Cowen &amp; Co analyst Chris Stix noted that Shiva was mentioned in a trade magazine gossip column published Monday as among potential merger candidates in the network industry.
    The article, published in the November 11 issue of Communications Week, spoke of a possible tie-up between rival Ascend Communications Inc and Shiva, among others.
    Stix said another factor behind the rebound in recent weeks of Shiva's share price may be the company's comments in public forums that it has a potential major contract win with a major telecom carrier it has declined to name.
    The Cowen analyst maintains a strong buy on Shiva.
    The stock hit a low of 38 in late September, following a steep three-month decline from its historic high of 87 reached in June, when it was a favorite among momentum investors.
    Although enthusiastic about Shiva's business fundamentals, Johnson discounted any recent product announcements as the cause behind the recent share price moves.
   "This doesn't appear to me that its product-related. It's too violent," he said. "It's not valuation-related either."
    Analysts consider Shiva one of two pure plays in the explosively growing market for remote access
telecommunications equipment. The other is high-flying Ascend, the dominant player in the market.
    Johnson said Shiva might also prove attractive to any of the large data networking companies seeking to gain quick market share in the remote access business.
    "With a company in Shiva's position, I can't think of a company that wouldn't be interested," he said.
 Johnson said that Shiva, which by his estimates has 13 percent of the remote access market, may prove attractive to any of the major network industry leaders -- Cisco Systems Inc, 3Com Corp or Bay Networks Inc.
    He left off Cabletron Systems Inc from the list of potential buyers, noting that Cabletron had acquired Network Express Inc in May to beef up its remote access line.
    Shiva has carved out a strategic niche in the market for remote acccess products, which are used by companies, Internet service providers and telecommunications carriers to handle data communications over far-flung wide-area networks.
    Shiva is the No. 3 supplier in remote acccess, behind Ascend, which  holds 40 percent of the market, and U.S. Robotics, a more diversified company with a 31 percent share, according to Johonson's estimates.
    Stix said Shiva, in partnership with Northern Telecom Ltd, has the lead in a new type of network switching product that allows telephone carriers to address the growing overload of their voice networks by Internet data traffic.
    -- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736  REUTER
Time Warner Inc. said Wednesday it will launch its CNN/SI sports news service on Dec. 12, more than a month after the debut of another sports news television channel from rival media conglomerate Walt Disney Co.
Time Warner executives meeting reporters said CNN/SI would combine the television apparatus of the Cable News Network and the sports expertise of Sports Illustrated, a weekly sports magazine published by Time Warner since 1954.
In a bid to reach wider audiences when various all-news services are scrambling to secure channel slots on America's crowded cable-television systems, the executives said CNN would simultaneously carry a nightly sports news programme being delivered to CNN/SI subscribers. CNN reaches some 70 million U.S. homes.
General Motors Corp., LCI International and Delta Airlines were among 13 advertisers that have signed on with CNN/SI, the executives said.
ESPNEWS, majority owned by Disney, began service on Nov. 1.
Both services compete against NewSport, a 24-hour sports news service owned by General Electric Co. unit NBC, Rainbow Programming, and a subsidiary of Tele-Communications Inc.
NBC, in alliance with Microsoft Corp., last summer launched the all-news service MSNBC to compete against CNN, part of Time Warner since the October takeover of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. News Corp. also recently launched a general news TV service and is fighting in court to secure a channel slot on Time Warner's New York cable systems delivering television to 1.1 million homes and Madison Avenue.
All business news channels are also about to increase in the United States. Dow Jones &amp; Co. and ITT Corp. is scheduled to launch a business news and sports channel in New York City. NBC and Time Warner already operate all-business-news services throughout the United States.
Supreme Court justices Wednesday sharply questioned rules governing so-called derivative investments and foreign currency trading in a case that could have wide repercussions for both markets.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has traditionally prosecuted crooks who ripped off the public with fraudulent investments. But sophisticated investors such as big banks have been allowed to trade similiar financial instruments with little direct regulation, market participants said.
That distinction has been blurred in recent years, as defendants accused of fraud by the CFTC have sought to rely on an exemption from regulation, relied on by the bigger players, in a 1974 amendment to the Commodity Exchange Act.
The amendment was added at the request of the Treasury Department to ensure that sophisticated investors trading in foreign currency and a few other markets would not be subject to uneccessary regulation by the CFTC.
Lower courts have made conflicting rulings about the 1974 amendment and the Supreme Court decided last year to hear the case of William Dunn, a foreign currency investment advisor charged with fraud by the CFTC after losing $95 million of his clients' money.
Jeffrey Minear, assistant to the Solicitor General -- the federal government's representative before the Supreme Court -- defended the CFTC's prosecution of Dunn before the court Wednesday. Minear argued that the 1974 exemption for "transactions in foreign currency" did not cover Dunn's trading in foreign currency options, one type of derivative. A derivative is an investment whose value is derived from a stock, bond, currency, commodity or other instrument.
But justices questioned Minear's distinction, which relied heavily on the particular meaning of the word "in."
Congress was "not using consistent language" in the commodity laws passed in 1974 and since then, Justice Antonin Scalia said. "They use in, they use on, they use involving."
Minear drew a sharp rebuke from Chief Justice William Rehnquist when he later argued that Congress expressed greater concern about fraudulent use of options than other types of investments under a 1922 commodity trading law.
"Perhaps it was true in 1922 but that doesn't prove it's true now," the chief justice interjected.
Gary Stumpp, Dunn's lawyer, argued that other federal agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission might have jurisdiction over fraudulent foreign exchange trading but not the CFTC.
Several Wall Street trade groups and big banks filed friend-of-the-court briefs in support of Dunn's position. They warned that if the court upheld the CFTC's position, the burden of additional regulation might drive the gigantic $40 billion a day foreign exchange market in the United States might overseas.
On the other side, Chicago futures exchanges said they could be put out of business by unregulated competitors if the court throws out the CFTC's case against Dunn.
Brooksley Born, chairwoman of the CFTC, attended the argument but declined to comment afterwards.
A decision is not expected for at least a few months. Several members of Congress have said they may introduce legislation early next year to change the 1974 amendment, possibly rendering the verdict in the Dunn case moot.
The next stop for railroad industry consolidation is likely to be a Philadelphia courtroom, where a judge next week may decide if Norfolk Southern Corp can block a proposed union between Conrail Inc and CSX Corp.
Wall Street's attention turned to the Nov. 18 hearing after Conrail on Wednesday rejected a $10 billion offer from Norfolk Southern and reaffirmed its commitment to the CSX transaction, without revising terms of the $8.5 billion pact.  
It was the second time that Conrail rebuffed an offer from Norfolk Southern that topped the CSX transaction.
Although Conrail shares rose earlier this week on the view that CSX would sweeten terms of the pact for a second time, analysts and traders expressed little surprise that the deal was not revised.
"I think that CSX is probably awaiting the outcome of the court challenge next week," said Brian Routledge of Prudential Securities.  
In rejecting the Norfolk Southern bid, Conrail and CSX also dangled the prospect of a sweeter deal in front of shareholders, but made no promises. The two companies said they are pursuing talks about increasing the value of the transaction once the deal is consummated.
Shareholders have expressed unhappiness with the Conrail-CSX deal, which is a cash and stock transaction that values Conrail at about $93 per share. Norfolk Southern has offered to buy Conrail for $110 per share in cash.  
According to Pennsylvania corporate law, Philadelphia-based Conrail is permitted to act in the interest of groups other than shareholders in determining the best partner. Conrail has contended that a union with CSX is a better strategic fit despite Norfolk Southern's higher offer.
"They have an iron-clad contract and they're just waiting to get into court," one arbitrager said about CSX and Conrail.
U.S. District Court Judge Donald Van Artsdalen has scheduled a hearing for next Monday to consider Norfolk Southern's suit to block the Conrail-CSX merger.  
Meanwhile, Norfolk Southern said it was not surprised by the latest rejection of its offer and accused Conrail's board of ignoring its fiduciary responsibility.
Norfolk Southern ran a full-page advertisement in the New York Times and Wall Street Journal on Wednesday, urging shareholders to support its bid.
Deregulation of the $100 billion local telephone market is progressing -- but not by the script written by the Federal Communications Commission.
Although the Supreme Court Tuesday declined to revive key parts of the FCC's landmark rules for prying open local phone monopolies, the march to competition is not dead, industry and government officials agree, and earlier fears that consumers would not see lower rates anytime soon may be overblown.
"Things haven't come to a halt," said Henry Geller, a former FCC general counsel. "It's not the end of the world."  
But the deregulation road map has changed.
State regulators, not the FCC, are calling many of the shots over how to open the local market to competition from the likes of long-distance carriers such as AT&amp;T Corp, cable-TV operators, utilities and other companies.
The states do, however, appear to be taking account of the FCC's now-defunct rules governing the prices new entrants to the local business must pay to acess the existing network controlled by the Baby Bells and other local carriers.  
FCC Chairman Reed Hundt -- who last month charged that an appeals court order suspending the FCC rules amounted to a "monkey wrench" in the  deregulation process -- now sees matters differently. "I'm pretty encouraged as of this moment about the general trend here," he said last Friday.
What's more, long-distance carriers such as AT&amp;T are not now sounding alarm bells.
And despite warnings that state regulators would give local carriers preferential treatment once the FCC rules were suspended, the Baby Bells and other local companies concede that state decisions so far represent a "mixed bag" for them.  
BellSouth Corp Vice President Randy New insists "it is impossible not to conclude" the states are being independent.
Last month, a U.S. appeals court in St. Louis suspended key provisions of the FCC's "interconnection" rules that spell out how new entrants can hook up to the local network under the new communications law.
The court said the FCC likely erred when writing them. The Baby Bells, GTE Corp and other local carriers and state regulators want the rules overturned.  
They argue that the FCC unfairly snatched from the states power to issue policies governing pricing and other matters.
Thanks to the appeals court order, state regulators are responsible for deciding important pricing issues. The FCC rules prescibed standardized prices for all 50 states.
Lawyers and industry officials agree that even though the FCC rules are suspended, their influence still lingers.
Regulators in Texas, Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Iowa, and elsewhere have not strayed far from them in arbitration decisions they've issued involving AT&amp;T and MCI Communications Corp. and the Baby Bells.  
The decisions lay the groundwork for how the two long-distance giants access the local network.
"So far, states are taking an approach generally consistent with the FCC's rules," said Richard Levine of the management consulting firm A.T. Kearny Inc.
The FCC required the Baby Bells to lease their networks in bulk at discounts of 17 percent to 25 percent.
The FCC also ordered local carriers to "unbundle" their networks into seven pieces that new rivals could lease to complete their own networks. The price of the pieces -- such as call-switching devices and operator assistance -- were to be based on the cost of new and more efficient facilities.
"In general, the states so far are very consistent with the FCC's interconnection order and with the general pricing construct the FCC laid out," said AT&amp;T Vice President Steve Davis.
Predicted Dan Hubbard, a senior vice president for a division of SBC Communications Inc : "There will be competition in the local markets by the early part of 1997."
Deregulation of the $100 billion local telephone market is progressing -- but not according to the script written by the Federal Communications Commission.
Although the Supreme Court Tuesday declined to revive key parts of the FCC's landmark rules for prying open local phone monopolies, the march to competition is not dead, industry and government officials agree. In addition, fears that consumers would not see lower rates anytime soon may be overblown.
"Things haven't come to a halt," said Henry Geller, a former FCC general counsel. "It's not the end of the world."
But the deregulation road map has changed.
State regulators, not the FCC, are calling many of the shots over how to open local markets to competition from the likes of long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators, utilities and other companies.
The states do, however, appear to be taking account of the FCC's now-defunct rules governing the prices new entrants to the local business must pay to acess the existing network controlled by the Baby Bells and other local carriers.
FCC Chairman Reed Hundt -- who last month charged that an appeals court order suspending the FCC rules amounted to a "monkey wrench" in the  deregulation process -- now sees matters differently. "I'm pretty encouraged as of this moment about the general trend here," he said last Friday.
What's more, long-distance carriers such as AT&amp;T Corp. are not now sounding alarm bells.
Despite warnings that state regulators would give local carriers preferential treatment once the FCC rules were suspended, the Baby Bells and other local companies concede that state decisions so far represent a "mixed bag" for them.
BellSouth Corp. Vice President Randy New insists "it is impossible not to conclude" the states are being independent.
Last month, a U.S. appeals court in St. Louis suspended key provisions of the FCC's "interconnection" rules, which spell out how new entrants can hook up to the local network under the new communications law.
The court said the FCC likely erred when writing them. The Baby Bells, GTE Corp. and other local carriers and state regulators want the rules overturned.
They argue that the FCC unfairly snatched from the states power to issue policies governing pricing and other matters.
Thanks to the appeals court order, state regulators are responsible for deciding important pricing issues. The FCC rules prescibed standardised prices for all 50 states.
Lawyers and industry officials agree that even though the FCC rules are suspended, their influence still lingers.
Regulators in Texas, Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania, Iowa, and elsewhere have not strayed far from them in arbitration decisions they've issued involving AT&amp;T and MCI Communications Corp. and the Baby Bells.
The decisions lay the groundwork for how the two long-distance giants access the local network.
"So far, states are taking an approach generally consistent with the FCC's rules," said Richard Levine of the management consulting firm A.T. Kearny Inc.
The FCC required the Baby Bells to lease their networks in bulk at discounts of 17 percent to 25 percent.
The FCC also ordered local carriers to "unbundle" their networks into seven pieces that new rivals could lease to complete their own networks. The price of the pieces -- such as call-switching devices and operator assistance -- were to be based on the cost of new and more efficient facilities.
"In general, the states so far are very consistent with the FCC's interconnection order and with the general pricing construct the FCC laid out," said AT&amp;T Vice President Steve Davis.
Dan Hubbard, a senior vice president for a division of SBC Communications Inc., predicted: "There will be competition in the local markets by the early part of 1997."
International Business Machines Corp said its $80 million acquisition of Edmark Corp will serve as the core for the computer giant's plans to focus on education in its fledgling consumer products unit.
The deal will also give Edmark access to IBM's worldwide distribution tentacles, which it needs to compete in the cut-throat consumer retail market, where the brutal fight for shelf space can sometimes make or break a software company.
"This gives us a very strong foundation," said Jim Firestone, general manager, IBM Consumer Division.  
"We are working with a handful of other firms, but I expect Edmark to be the real core of this activity," Firestone added. "It is a base upon which we expect to grow."
Firestone, formerly of American Express Co, was appointed to head up IBM's newly-created consumer business in July, 1995. He was faced with a daunting task because IBM's previous forays into the home PC market have not met with much success and it is not well known for its consumer software.
As part of his refocusing of IBM in the consumer arena, Firestone said IBM will only choose a few places to compete, and one of those areas will be the family educational market.  
"I am not interested in the entertainment side of consumer software," Firestone said. He also said IBM's latest models of its Aptiva home PC that it introduced in September, is gaining market share, where it is being marketed as a family learning tool. Software from Edmark will fit in with that focus.
"IBM is focused on learning as the magic bullet that will elevate their position and raise their profile," said Richard Zwetchkenbaum, director of consumer research at IDC/Link. "Edmark has some very valuable properties...This acquisition should be seen as one in a series of major moves that will help IBM achieve some of its goals in the consumer market."  
Analysts said that many of Edmark's software titles, such as its newly-released Mighty Math Series, Stanley's Stickers Stories and its Thinkin' Things Series are very popular in the industry. IBM's consumer software titles, such as its recent CD-ROM based on the Pinocchio movie, have not fared well.
"They have had mixed results," said Zwetchkenbaum.
Analysts also that there could be more deals in the educational software market, because some of the stock prices have fallen so low and the competition is fierce. Edmark's shares once traded at a 52-week high of 43-1/2.
Virginia-based Dominion Resources Inc., continuing an American invasion of the recently privatised utility industry in Britain, agreed Wednesday to acquire East Midlands Electricity Plc for about 1.3 billion pounds ($2.15 billion).
Executives from Dominion met East Midlands management late Tuesday to offer 6.7 pounds ($11.07) a share for one of five remaining independent electric companies in Britain.
But East Midlands shares languished well below the offer price Wednesday as concerns emerged that the bid might face obstacles from British competition authorities.
"Everyone's expecting the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission) to take a close look at the deal," said one trader.
Dominion, based in Richmond, Va., said last week it was considering a bid "at a price not much in excess of 608 pence per share." But East Midlands scorned that price, saying it would undervalue the Nottingham-based electricity company.
East Midlands Chairman Sir Nigel Rudd said Wednesday that his board was recommending the latest offer "because it represents fair value for an excellent business, which has successfully differentiated itself from the sector."
Seven of Britain's original 12 regional electricity companies have already been bought -- four by U.S. firms -- since they came up for grabs last March when the government's protective golden share expired, five years after privatisation in 1990.
"Dominion's offer looks a fair compromise price," said Chris Perry, utilities analyst at Charterhouse Tilney.
But he added that there were "very genuine concerns" that the offer might be referred to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission.
Dominion Chief Financial Officer Linwood Robertson said in an interview that the company was talking to the regulator.
"We intend to run this as a stand-alone business," he said, adding that he certainly hoped for approval.
He also said the group hoped to keep East Midlands' management team, which is highly regarded by industry analysts.
Robertson said Dominion looked forward to the diversification East Midlands would bring to it and said the U.S. company would bring strengths to the British firm.
Dominion's stock gained 37.5 cents to $40.125 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
U.S. group Dominion Resources on Wednesday agreed a 1.3 billion pound ($2.15 billion) bid for East Midlands Electricity, one of only five remaining British independent regional electricity companies.
But East Midlands shares languished well below the 670 pence per share offer price, as concerns emerged the bid might face obstacles from British competition authorities.
Virginia-based Dominion said last week it was considering a bid "at a price not much in excess of 608 pence per share". But East Midlands had scorned that price, saying it would undervalue the Nottingham-based electricity company's prospects.
Executives from Dominion, the fifth U.S. utility to bid for a British power supplier, met East Midlands management late on Tuesday with a takeover price top of the agenda.
East Midlands chairman Sir Nigel Rudd said in a joint statement that his board was recommending the offer "because it represents fair value for an excellent business, which has successfully differentiated itself from the sector."
East Midlands shares were up 13 pence at 624 pence after 1400 GMT, off a high of 650 pence.
"Everyone's expecting the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission) to take a close look at the deal. That is why the shares are only trading around 630 pence," said one trader.
Seven of the original 12 Recs have already been bought since they came up for grabs last March after the government's protective golden share expired, five years after privatisation in 1990.
Northern Electric is currently fighting off its second hostile approach in less than two years, rejecting a bid at 630 pence per share from CE Electric, a subsidiary of U.S. energy group CalEnergy, which holds just over 29 percent of the
"Dominion's offer looks a fair compromise price," said Chris Perry, utilities analyst at Charterhouse Tilney.
But he added there were "very genuine concerns" that the offer might be referred to the MMC.
"If Dominion is allowed to buy East Midlands and CalEnergy secures Northern, that would leave only three independent Recs," one analyst said.
British electricity watchdog Offer is expected to consult on Dominion's bid and then pass on its advice to Ian Lang, the trade and industry secretary, who will then decide whether the bid should be referred to the MMC.
Offer has completed consultations on CalEnergy's bid and will be passing on its advice to Lang shortly, industry sources said.
So far, only generators National Power and PowerGen have had their bids for Recs blocked, as they would have created fully integrated generation and supply companies.
Dominion's chief financial officer Linwood Robertson said in an interview that the company was now talking to the regulator.
"We intend to run this as a stand-alone business," he said, adding that he certainly hoped for approval from Offer.
He also said the group hoped to keep East Midlands' management team, which is highly regarded by industry analysts.
East Midlands was the first of Britain's electricity utilities, which were privatised with strong cash balance sheets, to launch a share buy-back to redistribute cash to shareholders.
Robertson said Dominion looked forward to the diversification East Midlands would bring to it and said the U.S. company would bring strengths to the British firm. ($1=.6050 Pound)
British property giant Land Securities said on Wednesday there were signs of rental growth in some sectors of the British property market and that it expected more to come.
Company chairman Peter Hunt said that while there was a feeling there was more rental growth to come, so far it had been patchy.
Growth in rental rates would be slower than in the 1980s and because it was not across the board it was crucial to be selective in the properties and developments chosen.
Land on Wednesday reported a pre-tax profit of 128.9 million pounds ($213 million) for the first half, including sales of properties, from 118.1 million pounds last time.
The company, which reported an increased interim dividend of 7.35 pence, said it had plans for "major shopping centre schemes" in a number of British towns, including Canterbury, York and Sunderland, as well as "several proposed new leisure developments".
The group said the annual level of expenditure on its current development programme was expected to peak during the second half of the financial year.
It said revenue profit, which was down to 115.5 million pounds from 118.2 million pounds for the period, "is being affected by our prudent policy of not capitalising interest as part of the cost of carrying our substantial programme".
But it was upbeat on its overall prospects. "We believe that our strategy of creating growth assets through development will result in a considerable addition to the rental income and capital value of the portfolio in years to come," Hunt said.
"Yes, they (the developments) are on target, although you can never be totally sure," he added in an interview.
Finance director Jim Murray told Reuters a drop in revenue profit for the half year, to 115.5 million pounds from 118.2 million pounds the previous year, was widely expected and had been flagged in advance.
This reflected the fact that the group was financing a large development programme and was not capitalising interest as part of the cost of carrying this out.
Hunt said property developments continued to be higher yielding business but that most land-owners were holding out on the sale of good land.
"(There is) a much better performance on a development. It is the best growth stock...it's very much in demand. That's why we are concentrating on doing as much development as we can," Hunt added.
The group was also buying investments in the "second-hand" market. "We are pursuing both avenues," he said, pointing out that Land Securities had recently added the Team Valley Retail Park, south of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, to its portfolio.
This would make "a substantial and valuable addition to our 500 million pound retail warehouse portfolio," he said in his chairman's statement.
During the half year the company had bought, or agreed to buy, nearly 80 million pounds of investment properties.
Hunt said he did not think there would be a less favourable environment for the group if Britiain's opposition Labour party won power from the ruling Conservative government at the next general election, due to be held by May 1997.
"I believe the strategies we are pursuing will apply equally within a New Labour environment as in a Conservative (one)."
Hunt said that while he could not comment on possible acquisition targets, the firm looked at "everything from time to time" but would have to "want to own quite a high proportion of the properties" of any target company before making a bid.
Sunbeam Corp., the struggling appliance maker led by corporate turnaround specialist Albert Dunlap, said Tuesday it would cut 6,000 jobs -- half its work force -- and eliminate 87 percent of its product lines.
The drastic measures, even more severe than Wall Street had expected, were announced just four months after Dunlap -- known as "Chainsaw Al" for his deep cost-cutting at troubled companies -- became chairman.
The maker of Sunbeam and Oster appliances, patio furniture and gas grills, which just reported its first quarterly loss since 1992, said it would also reduce the number of its facilities to 14 from 53 and take a charge of $300 million for one-time costs associated with the moves.
The Fort Lauderdale, Fla.-based firm, which lost $28.7 million in the third quarter as sales fell 2 percent, did not specify when the charge would be taken.
It did say, however, that only $75 million of the charge would be in cash -- for the payment of severance and other employee costs, lease obligations and other plant costs.
Sunbeam also announced ambitious plans for the future. It said it plans to double revenues to $2 billion by 1999 and lift operating margins to 20 percent of sales from the 2.5 percent posted for the first nine months of 1996.
Sunbeam also wants its return on equity to grow to 25 percent from 1 percent in the past year.
Shrinking profit margins and high manufacturing and administrative costs have depressed the company's profits in recent years. Sunbeam earned $50.5 million in 1995, less than half its 1994 profits.
Sunbeam said it will sell or shut 39 of 53 facilities, including 18 of its 26 factories, leaving it just four factories in the United States and four overseas. In addition, warehouses will be cut to 24 from 61.
The company said it will sell several businesses, including those that make furniture, time and temperature devices, scales and decorative bedding.
Asked in an interview later on CNN whether Sunbeam itself is for sale, Dunlap replied, "Everything is for sale." He did not elaborate.
Sunbeam said earlier its remaining businesses will be centred on kitchen appliances, personal care products, health care items, outdoor cooking equipment and professional care products.
"Our goal is to essentially complete the restructuring initiatives within the next 45 days. Therefore, the company has every intention of meeting its previously stated goal of beginning 1997 as a new company," Dunlap said in a statement.
Sales will double by 1999 to $2 billion, he said.
"It will be vintage Dunlap," Dunlap said in a conference call with institutional investors and analysts.
Dunlap declined to identify potential deal partners but said new products, including many designed for non-U.S. markets, and other steps would yield 20 percent or better year-over-year revenue growth.
Dunlap, who was named chairman and chief executive officer in July, is credited with turning around Scott Paper Co., which was later sold to Kimberly-Clark. At Scott Paper, Dunlap fired 10,000 workers and sold more than $2 billion in assets.
While his turnaround campaigns have helped stockholders, they have been criticised by community activists, unions and other groups as insensitive to workers.
Within months of joining Sunbeam, Dunlap -- also nicknamed "Darth Vader" after the villain of the "Star Wars" films -- replaced several top executives and brought in people who had worked for him in the past.
Although restructuring annoucements usually boost a company's stock price, Sunbeam stock lost 75 cents to $25 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
"He's pulled off some amazing turnarounds," Chapman Co. analyst Daniel Noll said of Dunlap. "But I'm a little sceptical. I think the stock's a little ahead of itself."
"'Chainsaw Al' is a pussycat name for you," analyst Andrew Shore of PaineWebber told Dunlap. "If you pull this off, you should be called 'Nuclear Al.'"
International Business Machines Corp. unveiled its Internet strategy Tuesday and announced partnerships with retailers, oil companies and other companies to boost business over the global computer network and corporate "intranets."
"We feel very, very good about the Internet as a business and about where we are going," Irving Wladwasky-Berger, the general manager of IBM's Internet division, said at a news conference.
The Internet unit was formed less than a year ago and has become a key strategic business for the world's largest computer maker.
IBM is helping customers develop a wide range of electronic commerce applications, including an electronic trading system, an Internet retailing outlet, and a service for buying electrical power over networks. Revenues, however, will come from the usual sources of hardware, software and services as it fuels demand for its products and services.
"We will continue to make money the 'old-fashioned' way, by selling a lot more systems, software, services and solutions," Wladawsky-Berger said. "By leveraging our core businesses, we can sell more of what we are good at."
He was not more specific about what kind of financial opportunity the corporate networks known as intranets and the Internet represent for IBM.
But IBM expects the worldwide information technology industry to grow to $1.2 trillion, from $800 billion, in the next four years, with 60 percent of that growth driven by network computing, he said.
One novel partnership IBM announced Tuesday was with Siemens AG, the German conglomerate, for the electric utility industry.
IBM and Siemens Power Systems Control announced a service to let electric utilities use computer networks, including the Internet, to sell excess power transmission capacity. Pacific Gas and Electric Co. is the first customer.
IBM also announced 13 additional new retailers which are joining its Internet shopping mall, called World Avenue, such as Gottschalk's, Hudson Bay, Avante Jewelry and others. Consumers can purchase goods quickly and securely via the World Avenue service on the World Wide Web, the graphical portion.
IBM also announced PetroConnect, a network-based service for the petroleum industry, with digital databases, maps, surveys, well logs, seismic data and other geographical and geological data, for all segments of the industry.
In another industry-specific application, IBM and partner Charles Schwab Inc. demonstrated its electronic trading system, called e.schwab, which lets customers request quotes, check account balances and execute trades on their Internet Web site, which runs on IBM's SP2 supercomputers.
IBM also touted Lotus' Domino software, which is the next version of Lotus Notes designed using Internet technology.
IBM said that Domino is one of the "jewels in its crown," that will be targeting the Web server software market, which market research company Forrester Research predicts will reach $9 billion by 1999.
Lotus Development President Jeff Papows made several jabs at both Microsoft Corp. and Netscape Communications Corp. and their initial emphasis on the browser wars, but said the battle was moving to group-oriented software.
Papows quoted Netscape's co-founder Marc Andreessen as saying that in 1997 the big war will be over groupware and e-mail. "We think Marc is right," Papows said, adding that whether they can take those markets by storm is the question.
The French government sold a nine percent stake in oil major Elf-Aquitaine on Wednesday, raising around 10 billion francs ($2 billion) and allowing the energy group to buy back a big chunk of its own shares.
The disposal follows a sharp rise in the Paris bourse in recent weeks and, specifically of oil stocks which have benefited from high world oil prices.
"Finance minister Jean Arthuis has decided to sell 24.9 million shares in Elf-Aquitaine held by the ERAP company, which will reduce the stake held by this public sector firm in Elf-Aquitaine to 0.75 percent," the ministry said in a statement.
The sale involved the placement of 12.5 million Elf shares, or 4.6 percent of the capital, at 417.50 francs per share to French and international institutions.
Elf said in a separate statement it had bought a 4.5 percent stake through its indirectly-owned financial Fingestval company as a long-term investment, accounting for the remainder of the shares sold by the state.
Elf shares slipped 2.5 francs to 423 by 1300 GMT.
The 10 billion francs will go into a government special account held for share sale proceeds, which is reserved for injecting into other state-owned companies, the ministry said.
Government spokesman Alain Lamassoure said the money would be used to recapitalise state-owned companies which needed it, particularly those being privatised.  It will not be used to help reduce the government's budget deficit.
France plans to recapitalise Thomson SA to the tune of 11 billion francs before selling the state-owned electronics group to Lagardere Groupe and Daewoo Electronics Corp.
The Elf share sale leaves a rump 0.75 percent of Elf stock in government hands, which covers free shares due to Elf employees and non-voting petroleum certificates held by the state.
Elf was among the early privatisations in the previous conservative government of Edouard Balladur in February 1994 (Corrects timing of Elf privatisation), when it was floated at 385 francs per share to private investors.
The group has wide-ranging interests in oil exploration, production and refining, as well as health and beauty products through its Sanofi unit.
It is a major constitutuent in the Paris CAC-40 share index.
The group's stock purchase would boost earnings per share, chairman Philippe Jaffre said: "This removes the uncertainty surrounding the French state's interest in the company which has weighed on the share price."
"The acquisition will automatically improve earnings per share," he said in a company statement.
The sale to institutions was handled by Paribas and SBC Warburg, after a tender with various banks. ABN Amro Rothschild acted as adviser to the government.
Fingestval is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Socap, which itself is wholly-owned by Sofaxbanque. Sofaxbanque is 100-percent owned by Elf. Socap manages assets and financial interests and has substantial cash holdings, Fingestval said. ($1=5.088 French Franc)
Chinese grain sellers are cutting the price they are willing to accept to export corn but are still a good US$12 a tonne over prevailing world prices, Far East trading sources said on Wednesday.
Chinese corn was being offered at $150 a tonne FOB (free on board), traders in Hong Kong and China said, while U.S. corn is selling into Asian ports at $138 c&amp;f (cost and freight) a tonne.
"There is no point because no one is going to pay that price," said a trader in Hong Kong.
He said Chinese sellers could be coming under pressure to move old crop as the new crop -- expected to be a bumper of between 115 million and 120 million tonnes -- comes on stream.
Traders who bought corn earlier in 1996 in the hope of making huge profits had been paying storage costs for more than six months and could now be trying to cut their losses, he said.
An industry source in Beijing said the offers were being made by state-owned traders in Jilin and Heilongjiang, China's major corn-growing provinces in the far northeast.
"At 1,250 (yuan per tonne, or $150) there won't be any takers unless China starts selling forward -- March, April, May -- which would see them possibly being more competitive," he said.
Wednesday's March futures price on the Dalian Commodity Exchange was 1,550 yuan ($186) per tonne.
Prices on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) fell in Tuesday trading after the release of official U.S. figures predicting an enormous U.S. corn crop.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture said the 1996 crop would total 9.265 million bushels, far above previous estimates. The announcement pushed December corn down 1/4 cents to $2.68 and March down 1-1/4 cents to $2.70-1/2.
Asian traders said they expected U.S. corn to fall further in the immediate term, leaving Chinese corn in its dust.
Traders reported last week that China had already given the green light to corn exports -- lifting a ban in effect since December 1994 -- but authorities had set a minimum price of $170 a tonne when the world price was $140-150.
Trading sources said they were receiving offers from provincial branches of Beijing's central food buying arm China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import/Export Corp (COFCO) and some Chinese trading companies with export permits.
The general feeling among traders polled by Reuters was that the price had been set with the intention of stifling exports.
Permission had to come from vice premier and economic tsar Zhu Rongji, who would be loathe to take any steps that could be inflationary, said industry sources who have met with Zhu over the issue.
With U.S. corn prices seen falling -- one Hong Kong trader predicted $130 a tonne c&amp;f Asian ports -- industry sources doubted any Chinese corn would leave home within the next six months.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Chinese leaders on Wednesday denounced Beijing's exclusion from the World Trade Organisation (WTO) as unjust, saying the nation had made great strides in opening its markets to trade and investment.
Protectionism or trade sanctions should not be policy tools in a world increasingly dependent on international trade, said Chinese minister for economic restructuring Li Tieying.
"It is unjust to exclude China from the World Trade Organisation," Li told a business summit in Beijing.
"A World Trade Organisation without China is incomplete," said Li, who is also a member of the Communist Party's elite Politburo. "We hope this situation will quickly change."
Chinese officials say Beijing should be allowed to join the WTO on lenient terms as a developing country and have blamed the United States for blocking their accession with tough demands for more open markets.
Chen Jinhua, chairman of the State Planning Commission, said China was committed to gradually establishing a trade system in line with international practice and had this year already slashed import tariffs to an average 23 percent from 36 percent.
Beijing would continue to open its markets to foreign trade and investment and to push for membership of the global trade club, Chen said in a speech to the business summit.
"We will continue positive negotiation with the members of the World Trade Organisation to regain membership in the organisation at the earliest possible date," he said.
Disagreement over the terms of Beijing's admission to the WTO, which Washington says should take into account China's huge and fast-growing economic clout, is just one of a number of disputes that have long troubled Sino-U.S. trade ties.
Rows over copyright piracy, arms proliferation, human rights and Taiwan have all strained relations in recent years, with Washington's annual review of China's Most Favoured Nation (MFN) trade status triggering some of the bitterest rhetoric.
China has urged Washington to make MFN status permanent, and Li warned the United States itself would lose if MFN was revoked.
"If the United States cancels China's Most Favoured Nation treatment, and imported the same goods from other countries, then U.S. consumers would have to spend $14 billion more every year," he quoted World Bank statistics as showing.
Beijing and Washington earlier this year went to the brink of a trade war after Washington announced punitive sanctions over widespread copyright piracy in China.
In a pointed reference to such disputes, Li said tough trade tactics should not be overused, but did not mention the United States by name.
"The new international economic order... should not have any kind of trade protectionism or discriminatory policies and the big stick of sanctions should certainly not be wielded at every opportunity," he said.
U.S. embassy officials said on Wednesday that the top U.S. textile negotiator had postponed her trip to China for talks in the face of U.S. sanctions on Chinese textiles and a threat by Beijing to retaliate.
China's growing trade surplus with the United States is also widely seen as a barrier to warmer Sino-U.S. relations.
Exports to the United States in the first 10 months had increased by 5.5 percent to $21.3 billion, official Chinese newspapers said on Wednesday. They gave no details for imports.
American Trans Air (ATA), which recently announced plans to cut back its jet capacity and some scheduled service, expects to forge additional alliances with other air carriers.
"We clearly think that code-sharing is an opportunity for this company to expand the markets in which it can participate," Kenneth Wolff, chief financial officer of Amtran Inc, parent of ATA, said in a telephone interview Wednesday.
In late May, ATA and Chicago Express Airlines agreed to a code-sharing agreement.  
Under these agreements, the airlines put their codes on each other's flights in computerized reservation systems.
"In general, it has exceeded our expectations, although this was a relationship which we both went into expecting some good things," Stanley Pace, president of the Indianapolis-based company, said of the alliance with Chicago Express. "The benefits have been much more substantial than we both thought they would be."
Looking ahead, ATA will continue to serve vacation destinations from Indianapolis, Milwaukee and Chicago's Midway Airport with charter and scheduled service.  
But Pace added that expansion of its service will be made more "thoughtfully" than in the past when the carrier underwent rapid growth.
In the second quarter, Amtran lost $0.20 a share, compared with a year-ago profit of $0.29, due to aggressive scheduled service expansion that was not as profitable as it had hoped.
ATA said last week it is cutting back some of its scheduled service, particularly from Boston to destinations like Orlando, Fla., and Nassau, Bahamas.
ATA also has said it is reducing lease obligations for Boeing Co 757 jets to boost its operating efficiency.  
These steps are expected to improve Amtran's profitability, although Pace said the next two quarters will be a transition period for the company.
Pace declined to comment on near-term earnings projections. According to First Call, the mean analyst estimate for the third quarter is $0.28, based on a wide range from breakeven to $0.55 a share. A year ago it earned $0.31.
"We're going to strengthen the bottom line fairly quickly over the next two quarters so that we have a solid foundation...to resume deliberate, systematic, thoughtful and profitable growth through 1997 and into 1998," Pace said.
Company executives acknowledged that some consumers postponed buying tickets on ATA following the May 11 ValuJet Inc crash in the Florida Everglades.
To allay consumer concerns, Pace said ATA emphasized its safety record of flying 23 years without any serious accidents.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
The threat of a Sino-U.S. textiles trade war is having little impact on Chinese firms as it is unlikely to go beyond words and because the companies are performing poorly, company officials and brokers said on Wednesday.
Company officials said they had got used to the continual verbal duelling between Beijing and Washington with concrete measures being avoided at the last minute.
"With the interests of both sides at stake, the verbal warnings will finally be replaced by mutual concessions," said Li Shounan, head of the general manager's office in Shanghai Lianhua Fibre Co Ltd.
"The overall amount under threat is not large and when it comes to an individual company, the impact is even less. We do not expect much effect," said an official with Shanghai Sanmao Textile Co Ltd.
But a spokeswoman for Shanghai Jiafeng Co Ltd said its products were involved in the dispute.
"There will surely be some impact if a trade war breaks out though it is hard to immediately to assess to what extent," she said.
China's annual apparel and textile exports to the United States are estimated at around $4.2 billion. About 30 garment and textile companies are listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
In the most recent clash in Sino-American trade relations, Beijing said on Sunday it would temporarily ban imports of selected U.S. textiles, farm goods, fruits and alcoholic drinks from December 10 in retaliation for U.S. sanctions taken against Chinese textiles.
Washington announced in September that it would cut China's textile import quota for 1995 by $19 million in retaliation after accusing China of shipping through third countries to avoid quotas agreed upon in a bilateral textile accord.
"Textile companies have performed very poorly in the past two years due to a slump of the industry and we do not expect any major impact even with a trade war," said one broker with China Shandong Securities Co.
"But a handful of firms closely linked to Chinese-U.S. trade will possibly be affected," he added.
"Who cares?" said a Shanghai-based investment analyst with a Hong Kong securities brokerage. "They (the listed textile firms) have done so poorly that few investors are interested in them."
Some Chinese officials have said they believe there is a political agenda behind the U.S. trade threats against China.
"The U.S. penalties were announced before the U.S. elections and we believe they were closely linked to (U.S. President Bill) Clinton's political needs," said one official.
China's exports climbed again in October due to sluggish domestic demand, faster payment of export tax rebates and an expansion of credit to exporters, newspapers and a government economist said on Wednesday.
The upturn in exports was expected to continue through the first half of 1997, said Wang Jian, a researcher with the cabinet's State Planning Commission.
Exports rose for the fourth consecutive month in October, jumping 23.3 percent to $15.22 billion from a year ago, said the International Business Daily, a newspaper published by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
The healthy exports performance helped the nation register its biggest monthly trade surplus of the year. The surplus stood at $3.91 billion in October compared with $3.2 billion in September, the newspaper said.
"This kind of rebound in exports ... is estimated to last until the first half of next year," Wang told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Wang attributed the upturn to slow domestic demand, forcing manufacturers to look to overseas markets.
Also, domestic enterprises had adjusted to a cut in government-paid export tax rebates, he said. The government slashed the rebate on exports of industrial products to 9.0 percent from 14.0 percent on January 1, 1996.
The International Business Daily said exports rebounded because the government sped up the payment of export tax rebates and expanded credit to exporters.
Exports slumped in the first six months of 1996, dented by rising wages and the relative strength of the currency, the renminbi.
A slowdown in government payments of tax rebates to exporters had also discouraged many firms from exporting their goods earlier in the year. Many of those firms focused sales on the domestic market instead.
However, the government has been stepping up payment of export rebates to try to revive exports.
Imports inched up a year-on-year three percent to $11.31 billion in October, the Business Daily said.
The import data showed that the impact of this year's tariff cuts has gradually weakened, it said.
In the first 10 months of this year, China's exports totalled $119.22 billion, mostly unchanged from the same 1995 period, the newspaper said. But imports added up to $107.21 billion, a rise of 5.5 percent from the year-ago period.
The latest figures brought the total trade surplus for the January-to-October period to $12.01 billion, it said.
Japan, the United States and Europe remained China's largest export markets.
China's exports to Japan rose a year-on-year 8.6 percent to $24.5 billion in the first 10 months of this year, the daily said. Exports to the United States and Europe increased 5.5 percent and 4.5 percent to $21.3 billion and $18.9 billion respectively.
Machinery and electronic exports totalled $38 billion in the first 10 months, accounting for one-third of total exports and up 11 percent from the year-ago period, the newspaper said.
Exports of toys, furniture, shoes, crude oil and plastic products increased in the first 10 months. But exports of textile yarn and related products, garment, steel and aquatic products all fell, it said.
Imports by foreign-funded enterprises in the first 10 months soared a year-on-year 23 percent to $105.0 billion.
Car imports plunged 39 percent year-on-year between January and October, the newspaper said. It did not elaborate.
French carmakers Renault SA and Peugeot PSA said on Wednesday that they were in talks with the government on a long-term plan to rejuvenate their workforce.
But the companies did not confirm a newspaper report they were seeking approval for a five-year plan to cut 40,000 jobs in an early retirement scheme in exchange for hiring 14,000 young people. Newspaper Les Echos said the cost of these operations could be 30 billion francs ($6 billion).
"Our chairman Louis Schweitzer and Peugeot chairman Jacques Calvet have written a letter to Prime Minister Alain Juppe in July with a proposal," a Renault spokeswoman said.
"There have been discussions since but the government has not yet replied," she added.
At Peugeot, officials declined to comment on the existence of the letter but a spokesman said that the French car industry needed to rejuvenate its work force.
"In France, the average age of a car worker is 42 to 43 years but our competitors, especially Asian, have an average age of below 30 years," the Peugeot spokesman said.
He said that this gave Peugeot and Renault a competitive handicap at a time when the markets are increasingly being opened up -- from 1999 a quota system limiting Japanese car imports in Europe will be lifted.
Younger workers are not only cheaper but also more flexible and open to new techniques such as "empowerment" - a management idea giving workers more responsibility for their own work, the Peugeot official said.
At Renault the average age is 45 years. "We have old factories, the oldest is at Flins which dates from the war, and therefore the average age is rather high," the Renault spokeswoman said.
Renault had a worldwide staff of 139,950 people at the end of 1995. Of them, 72,163 were involved in car production in France.
At PSA Peugeot Citroen, the group number is 139,900 of whom 122,600 are in car production in France.
French car makers are experiencing difficulties and a two-year government old-for-new car incentive scheme has not helped to overcome market problems.
($1=5.057 French Franc)
British water and sewerage company South West Water turned in sparkling first half profits on Thursday and hiked its dividend by an expected 20 percent, promising further increases in years to come.
The company, which evaded takeover earlier this year when two proposed bids were blocked by the UK government, said it expected to raise its total dividend by 20 percent this year and make real a rise of eight percent "for the foreseeable future".
South West Water's pretax profits for the six months ending September 30 rose to 72.9 million pounds ($121.4 million) up 35 percent and ahead of expectations of 57 to 68 million pounds.
It paid out a dividend of 11.8 pence as promised when the bids, from Severn Trent and Wessex, were unexpectedly halted by the UK government in October.
"The dividend policy will continue to be based on the pursuit of progressive growth," the company said in a statement.
But the half year surge in profits was unlikely to be repeated, finance director Ken Hill told Reuters. "I do not think a 35 percent increase in PBT (profit before tax) is likely to occur at the end of this year," he said, nor in years immediately following. "But we are looking for profit increases," he added.
Shares in the company closed three pence up at 580 after touching a high of 589 pence.
Anglian Water, which reported last week, saw half year profits rise 5.5 percent and raised its dividend 14.6 percent. Thames Water, which kicked off the flow of interim results in the sector on October 29, turned in pretax profits before exceptionals up 15 percent and raised its dividend 22 percent.
South West Water has also committed to pay out a rebate of 15 pounds each to customers after the planned bids were blocked but Hill warned further rebates would not be automatic.
The company failed last year in a bid to have price caps imposed by regulator Ofwat raised as the Monopolies and Mergers Commission said it should find an extra 100 million pounds it said it needed for environmental upgrades from efficiencies.
It has since made an earlier rebate of 10 pounds to customers, announced additional investment of 74 million pounds and brought forward 20 million pounds of investment in cleaning up at Newquay, a favourite beach area for surfers. Hill said the company's strategy now was to "focus on the core business...and develop very carefully the strategy of the non-regulated businesses."
Dividend payouts would be helped by efficiency savings and improved profitability in its non-regulated businesses, which contributed 6.6 million pounds to interim profits, executives told a press conference.
Chairman Keith Court told journalists the company aimed to balance turnover contributions of non-regulated and regulated businesses "as soon as we can."
New acquisitions contributed around 3.5 million pounds to operating profits of some 7.5 million pounds in non-regulated business this year and Hill said there was between 100 and 200 million pounds available to make further purchases.
But there are no specific plans for acquisitions. "Our track record shows...we are not frightened (of making acquisitions) but it is a question of finding ones that make sense," Colin Drummond, head of the group's non-core division, said.
At the same time, the company's balance sheet was strong enough to effect a share buyback if it decided to make use of a mandate to buy 10 percent of shares, Hill said.
($1=.6004 Pound)
British Telecommuncations Plc, the telecoms giant, beat even the most optimistic analyst forecasts on Thursday with robust second quarter and first half profits and insisted it was growing despite ever stiffer competition.
BT, which plans to merge with America's MCI to create one of the world's biggest telecoms groups, said profits before tax, redundancy and restructuring charges rose 7.4 percent in the second quarter and 5.2 percent in the first half.
But after a hefty 235 million pound ($388.2 million) redundancy charge and a 60 million pound charge for the repurchase of government-held bonds, half year pretax profits came in at 1.6 billion pounds and 730 million pounds in the second quarter -- slightly below figures for the same periods in 1995.
"The results for the half year show an encouraging position with sustained high growth in demand for our telephony services and significant sales increases in our new markets and advanced products," said chairman Sir Iain Vallance.
BT, whose shares jumped 8.5 pence to 369 pence in heavy trade, has managed to hang onto its 20.5 million residential customer lines over the last 12 months despite predictions that competition from cable companies would dent its market share.
The group also said its biggest business, inland calls, grew one percent to over seven percent in the quarter on a 12 month moving average basis after price cuts and marketing initiatives.
"We're growing, we're not going backwards," finance director Robert Brace told Reuters in an interview, noting that turnover in the six months rose 4.5 percent to 7.37 billion pounds.
"I think telecoms is one of the most exciting growth industries in the world...When we open (the markets) up, drop the prices, raise the quality of service and really market hard, the growth levels are double digit."
BT, which has formed six joint ventures worth $135 billion to gain access to the European markets, said it planned to "get very aggressive" in the next two years as the continental telecoms markets are opened up to competition, around 1998.
Asked where BT saw the main profit growth, Brace said:
"All prices in France and Germany are very high compared with the UK. If markets open up and we compete, prices will come down. But we will take substantial market share, particularly in the business area where quality of service really matters."
BT has operations in 30 countries and employs about 130,000 staff worldwide. Since privatisation in 1984, about 110,000 jobs have gone. The firm, which cut another 3,200 staff in the first half of this year, expects about the same number of voluntary redundancies in the second.
As part of its European offensive, BT has won a licence in the Netherlands, plans to win both fixed and mobile licences in Germany and has bought into a mobile licence in France where it also thinks it will win the second fixed licence.
Brace said high-speed digital ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) lines and overseas operations were growing at about 50-100 percent per year and that the company had high hopes for its intranet initiative with software giant Microsoft Corp, where it also sees booming demand.
BT said on Wednesday that it and MCI, whose proposed merger is the biggest transatlantic deal in history, were linking up with Microsoft to offer transnational firms private communications networks based on the internet.
Asked whether BT, which announced its $20 billion merger with MCI on November 3, planned similar deals, Brace said few other large communications groups offered the same prospects.
"I'm not sure that there are similar deals as MCI -- because there aren't many companies that size in the world one would wish to merge with."
As previously announced, BT is raising its interim dividend by six percent to 7.9 pence. As part of the MCI deal, BT is also paying a special dividend of 35 pence which it expects to pay in September 1997 at the same time as the final dividend.
($1=.6054 Pound)
Fast growing telephone reseller Excel Communications Inc said on Wednesday that it expects record earnings and sales growth for the third quarter and the year, and has plans to expand into new services.
"We should have another record quarter and another record year," Jack McLaine, Excel chief financial officer, told Reuters in an interview.
McLaine said the company had plans to offer Internet access, home security monitoring, video service, local telephone services and eventually, wireless telephone.  
Excel reported a 350 percent rise in earnings per share in the second 1996 quarter to $0.36 from $0.08 a year earlier. The company is so far only covered by one analyst, so no consensus of expectations was available.
Excel doesn't own a single phone line itself, but uses the long distance network of WorldCom Inc to reach customers. WorldCom's planned merger with MFS Communications Co Inc , makes entering new markets easier. "Its definitely easier if you can go to one company and buy the product where you will get nationwide coverage rather than have to go various regional carriers to package it together," McLaine said.  
"The move between WorldCom and MFS is a brilliant deal strategically. We have a good relationship with WorldCom and we look forward to talking with them about what these new products are," he said.
Excel is one of around 400 telephone service resellers which have been successfully eating into the market share of industry leaders like AT&amp;T Corp. They now account for $12 billion of the $80 billion long distance market.
Analysts say the MFS WorldCom merger will allow these aggressive competitors into high value markets which are not normally available to companies without owned facilities.  
Excel said its sales approach -- using independent sales representatives to sell to their friends, family and associates -- will be powerful in new markets.
"Our relationship sales base is much stronger than telemarketing or direct mail programs, because the sales person knows the customer, and is able to sit down with them .. and explain the product," he said.
In the second quarter Excel said it had 220,710 sales representatives against 98,450 a year earlier. They earn a commission based on the size of the phone bill of those they sign up.
Excel's first new resold product is paging, which it has previously announced it is launching next week. It will be using the paging network of PageMart Wireless Inc. Internet service should follow in 1997, McLaine said. -- New York Newsroom  212 859 1712
Bre-X Minerals Ltd. has been silent since it said last month that it formed a partnership with the son of the Indonesian ruler Suharto, a move that has worried shareholders and prompted regulators to seek more information.
Despite a whirl of rumours and persistent questions that have sent the Canadian mining company's shares on a roller-coaster ride, Bre-X has maintained a dogged silence.
The Calgary-based company that controls one of the world's biggest gold prospects in Indonesia has not talked to the press for weeks. Company officials will take calls only from a handful of favoured analysts, according to market sources.
"I haven't had any calls returned," said gold analyst Rick Cohen with Goepel Shields in Vancouver. "There seems to be a certain number of people they talk to. Everybody's a bit in the dark."
Bre-X on Oct. 28 announced its alliance with Suharto's son, Sigit Harjojudanto, whose business influence is pervasive in Indonesia.
Since then, instead of directly addressing questions about its business in Indonesia -- many of which are playing havoc with the stock price -- Bre-X has opted instead to leak to the market carefully selected press material.
On Sunday, for example, the company faxed the media, analysts and shareholders a copy of a story from the Far Eastern Economic Review detailing its links with Sigit.
The article referred to Sigit's possible ties with the Indonesian army, stated that one of Bre-X's Indonesian partners has been bought out and asserted that gold giant Barrick Gold Corp. tried to push Bre-X into a bad deal.
Despite questions about the article, Bre-X refused to respond and still has not said whether it endorses the story or puts any faith in the statements.
"I've certainly suggested a few times that they talk to the media and clear things up," said Neil Winchester, manager of surveillance for the Toronto Stock Exchange. "It would be advantageous to the marketplace."
Rumours have shrouded Bre-X since the Indonesian government said last month it would not issue essential contracts for work on the project until Bre-X cleared up an ownership dispute with some of its Indonesian partners.
The dispute has put a cloud over Bre-X's search to find a major mining partner to help it develop the rich Busang gold deposit in East Kalimantan, but the alliance with Suharto's son was expected to help the company clear up its problems.
"They're optimistic that they can get everything within a couple of weeks," said gold analyst Michael Fowler of Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion, who said he spoke with Bre-X on Tuesday.
But he said Bre-X would not comment on the article it distributed. "They just sent it out for general interest purposes."
Still, statements in the article and other gossip were taking its toll on shares linked to Bre-X and other exploration companies in Asia have complained the uncertainty has hurt their stocks.
Minorca Resources Inc., a Canadian mining company that has an interest in the Busang deposit through an alliance with Bre-X's Indonesian partner, PT Askatindo Karya Mineral, has found itself on the defensive.
Talk about Askatindo being bought out is unfounded, Minorca President Roland Horst said in an interview. "They have no intention to sell out," he said.
Minorca's chairman is in Indonesia this week meeting with Askatindo officials and verified the company's intentions, Horst said.
Horst said he had a slew of unanswered questions about Bre-X's arrangements with Suharto's son too. "To be frank, the relationship between Minorca and Bre-X is relatively cool."
CompuServe Corp investors' fears were allayed Wednesday by parent company H&amp;R Block Inc's move to postpone plans to spin off the remaining 80 percent interest in the ailing online service.
Analysts said the looming innundation of the market by the 74.2 million CompuServe shares still held by H&amp;R Block had weighed heavily on prospects for the already troubled issue.
"I'm glad that H&amp;R Block came to their senses," said analyst Peter Krasilovsky of Arlen Communications.  
The analyst noted CompuServe has enough worries from sliding online membership counts and the failure of its new WOW! consumer service to attract a following. It didn't need added pressure from the pending share distribuion.
Other analysts hailed H&amp;R Block's decision to postpone indefintely a shareholder vote on its proposed spin-off, but were concerned about what the move suggests for the future of stocks such as CompuServe and America Online Inc.
"A lot of the people are going to read that the online market is at a crossroads and pretty shaky," said one analyst of online providers who does not officially follow CompuServe.  
"A lot of people are going to relate this to the online industy in general," he said of how CompuServe's troubles have acted as a weight on America Online's stock price, as well.
But analysts said that while competition by Internet access providers may have played a part in slowing the growth of the established online service providers, most of CompuServe's problems remain unique and are not shared by AOL.
CompuServe stock rose 1-3/16 to 13-1/2 Wedndesday, but H&amp;R Block fell 1-5/8 to 26-1/4 in active trading. America Online stock gained 3/4 to 31-5/8 by mid-afternoon.  
"The problems are 85 percent CompuServe and 15 percent due to general industry issues," said another Wall Street analyst. "If anything there may be a bit of an industry shake-out here."
The Columbus, Ohio-based online service has weathered difficult months since its debut as a separately traded stock.
In April, H&amp;R Block spun off nearly 20 percent to the public, retaining 80 percent or so for eventual distribution to shareholders. Shares of the online service have slid from a first-day high of 35-1/2 to just above 10 recently.  
In July, CompuServe surprised Wall Street with a warning that it expected a big loss for its first quarter ended July 31, its first as a publicly traded company.
The company attributed the loss to the high costs of introducing its new WOW! consumer online service and investing in an overhaul of its network infrastructure. It also cited a decline in overall subscriber growth as cancellations outpaced new customers.  
In response, CompuServe and H&amp;R Block were slapped with a shareholder lawsuit alleging the company had misrepresented the online service company's prospects for subscriber growth and profitability in its initial offering prospectus.
When the company actually reported first-quarter earnings August 20, it warned that investors to expect a further loss of $0.10 to $0.15 per share for the second quarter ending in October. It cited product-introduction costs.  
Fearing it might be adding fuel to the fire, H&amp;R Block officials opted to delay the final CompuServe share distribution vote set for September 11 until more favorable market conditions develop, Wall Street analysts said.
America Online has had to contend with business issues of its own, including a price cut to remain competitive with rival Internet access providers and an embarrassing 19-hour service blackout earlier this month.
But analysts said that in contrast to CompuServe's falling subcriber rates, America Online has continued to grow, albeit at a slightly slower pace in the summer months.
In contrast to CompuServe, they said America Online is poised to see strong membership growth in the coming quarters, and may in effect be taking customers away from CompuServe.
"The problems CompuServe is having are likely to benefit America Online in the next nine months," an analyst said.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Shareholders in British property company Greycoat on Thursday left a large question-mark hanging over the future of the group, which is currently facing a break-up demand and a merger proposal from a smaller rival.
Greycoat shareholders postponed for three weeks a vote on a proposal to sell off the company's 500 million pounds ($831.5 million) portfolio in anticipation of talks with predator Moorfield Estates, run by two former Goldman Sachs property analysts.
But Greycoat said it still has to see concrete proposals from Moorfield, which wants a paper merger of the two and then a possible de-merger of Greycoat's largest property assets.
"We have yet to see any detailed proposals from Moorfield. As we keep saying we will consider those proposals once they are received. So far we have only seen one page of vague bullet points," a Greycoat spokesman told Reuters.
The rebel investment fund shareholders which put forward the break-up resolution are the UK Active Value Fund, IMP UKAV Inc and Chaddesley Investments. They control 11 percent of the shares and are advised by Brian Myerson's Active Value Advisors.
But at an extraordinary general meeting South African Myerson asked shareholders to put off a vote on their proposals for a controlled programme of disposals which he has said would significantly enhance shareholder value.
This change in strategy came after Greycoat's chairman Michael Beckett told the meeting it had asked Moorfield to come up with a "full and detailed proposal" which, if forthcoming, it would "consider carefully".
After a vote on postponement, carried by 53 million shares in favour versus about 42 million shares against, Myerson said, "It's an overwhelming vote in favour of shareholder choice. We are supportive of Moorfield in terms of its proposals. We want the board to sit down with them."
Greycoat, which specialises in London property, said last week that the break-up resolution was not in shareholders' best interests and urged them to reject it.
But news of the Moorfield approach surfaced over the weekend, adding another dimension to the uncertainty already hanging over the company and according to some analysts, holding down its share price which closed at 155-1/2p on Thursday.
Moorfield said earlier this week that it would de-merge Greycoat's largest assets, its Embankment Place and 123 Buckingham Palace Road properties, and had earmarked some of its developments for immediate sale to a large property company.
It said it plans to bring the remainder of the enlarged group's assets into an investment, trading and development portfolio and reorganise the board and management structure to reduce costs by at least 1.5 million pounds a year.
Myerson told reporters after the meeting that the British property company would now be forced to talk to Moorfield. "The (Greycoat) board will be forced to sit down and look at the Moorfield proposals," he said.
Myerson said he was delighted shareholders had voted to adjourn his original proposal and repeated that his main object was to create shareholder value.
He added the Moorfield proposals, which have so far been rejected by Greycoat as being too vague, had the backing of holders of 40 percent of Greycoat shares
Myerson said these holders had already seen Moorfield's 40-page document and expressed their support for it, adding that he was "supportive" of both the proposals and the Moorfield management.
"We are supportive of Moorfield in terms of its proposals and we want it (the board) to sit down with them...We expect Moorfield to refine its proposals over the next couple of weeks," he added. ($ = 0.601 British Pounds)
British Telecommications beat even the most optimistic analyst forecasts on Thursday with robust second quarter and first half profits and insisted it was growing despite ever stiffer competition.
BT, which plans to merge with America's MCI to create Concert, one of the world's biggest telecoms groups, said profits before tax, redundancy and restructuring charges rose 7.4 percent in the quarter and 5.2 percent in the first half.
But after a hefty 235 million pound ($388.2 million) of redundancy costs and a 60 million pound charge for the repurchase of government-held bonds, half year pretax profits came in at 1.6 billion pounds and 730 million pounds in the second quarter -- slightly below the corresponding 1995 figures.
BT, whose shares were 8.5 pence higher at 369p in heavy trade after a high on the day of 371, managed to hang onto its 20.5 million residential customer lines despite predictions that competition from cable companies would dent its market share.
"We're growing, we're not going backwards," finance director Robert Brace told Reuters in an interview, noting that turnover in the six months rose 4.5 percent to 7.37 billion pounds.
"I think telecoms is one of the most exciting growth industries in the world," he said. "When we open (the markets) up, drop the prices, raise the quality of service, and really market hard, the growth levels are double digit."
The group also said its biggest business, inland calls, grew one percent to over seven percent in the quarter on a 12 month moving average basis after price cuts and marketing initiatives.
But chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield told a news conference BT was probably losing one to two percentage points of a growing British telecoms market, and that this trend was likely to continue, forcing BT to turn abroad for profit growth.
"BT will lose profits in the short term," said James Ross, telecoms analyst at ABN AMRO Hoare Govett, who expects BT to post a full year pretax profit of 2.1 billion pounds. But he said BT was well placed to fight competition at home and abroad.
"They are the group that has done the best (abroad) so far and in the UK, they have protected their position," he said.
Brace said BT planned to "get very aggressive" in the next two years as European telecoms markets are opened around 1998.
BT expects to win more than 30 percent of revenues from its six continental European joint ventures after liberalisation. Those ventures, worth about $135 billion, could start contributing profits after five to seven years, Bonfield said.
The group plans to take a substantial market share of the lucrative big business, data and mobile services markets.
Bonfield said BT, which expects 1996/97 capital expenditure to be around 2.7-2.8 billion pounds, still saw a link-up with a partner such as Japan's Nippon Telegraph and Telephone a high, long-term priority for a ticket into booming Asia.
"I'd really hate to be knocked out by another competitor just because we weren't treading the boards," he said.
While Japan was mulling the future structure of NTT, BT would make sure it was "parading outside the door", he said.
BT operates in 30 countries and employs about 130,000 staff worldwide. Since privatisation in 1984, about 110,000 jobs have gone. Another 3,200 staff left in the first half of this year with about 3,000 more voluntary redundancies expected this year.
Asked whether BT planned similar deals to its $20 billion MCI merger, Brace said: "I'm not sure that there are similar deals as MCI -- because there aren't many companies that size in the world one would wish to merge with," he said.
BT had already planned a six percent half year dividend rise to 7.9 pence. As part of the MCI deal, BT is also paying a 35p special dividend in September 1997 on top of the final dividend. ($1=.6054 Pound)
Several large-capitalization Canadian stocks could benefit, while others may be hurt when the Toronto Stock Exchange changes rules governing control blocks in its key 300 Composite Index on Friday.
Stocks such as Barrick Gold Corp, funeral home operator Loewen Group Inc and energy firm Petro-Canada should get snapped up by fund managers when the rules change, analysts said.
"Index funds, which try to match the weighting of the index, are going to have to scramble to buy X percent more Barrick shares...by Friday," said an analyst who declined to be identified.
The Toronto Stock Exchange, which handles more than 80 percent of Canada's equity trading, will increase the relative weighting of 30 stocks on Friday by raising the level of control blocks to 20 percent from 15 percent.
The change will take effect at the start of trading on Friday.
Relative weighting describes the impact a stock or sub-group has on the overall TSE 300 Composite Index.
A control block is a group of shares owned by a single entity. Control blocks are not considered part of a stock's weighting because these shares cannot freely trade in the market.
Under the new rules, the federal government's 18.26 percent holding in Petro-Canada Inc will be included in the company's overall float. Petro-Canada's will therefore see its weighting rise to 1.22 percent from about 1.03 percent.
The TSE is changing the definition of a control block to comply with Ontario Securities Commission reporting rules, said Tara O'Donnell, director of derivative markets management.
The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board, one of Canada's biggest pension fund managers, will need to make some changes, said Zev Frishman, manager of quantitative products.
Teachers' has almost C$45 billion in assets with a third of its money in Canadian equities.
"I cannot go into specific numbers or anything like that, but in essence we will have to, to some extent, adjust positions," Frishman said.
Barrick will likely be one of the stocks snapped up, analysts said.
Barrick, which is 15.7 percent owned by Trizec Hahn Corp, will now be weighted based on 100 percent of its shares from 84.3 percent. As a result, the world's third largest gold producer will see its relative weighting in the TSE 300 increase to 3.28 percent from 2.84 percent.
Loewen's weighting will jump to about 1.74 percent from about 0.64 percent, after a control block held by chief executive Raymond Loewen and his wife is included.
Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement Services (OMERS) said it expected the control block changes to have little impact on its funds.
"You have to remember that the actual changes relative to the market overall are quite small," said Tom Gunn, senior vice-president of OMERS' investment division.
The list of 30 affected stocks also includes gold producer Franco-Nevada Mining Corp Ltd, Quebecor Printing Inc, publisher Hollinger Inc, energy firm Gulf Canada Resources Ltd and Shaw Industries Ltd.
Others are Astral Communications Inc, BC Sugar Refinery Ltd, CCL Industries Inc and Co-Steel Inc, Corel Corp, Cognos Inc, Cinram Ltd., Edper Group Ltd and First Marathon Inc and Tee-Comm Electronics Inc.
Investors, fed up with a lack of transparency and the poor performance of the Czech equity market, are turning to the country's less opaque debt market, buoyed by favourable interest rates and economic data.
The Prague bourse has been caught in a downward spiral -- the official PX50 index has lost almost 18 percent in the past two months -- that analysts say won't end before the New Year.
But while bears maul the equities market, they say bulls are quietly finding greener pastures in Czech debt.
"The bond market is pretty bullish and the outlook is good. Rates have been tending down and people are positive especially in the longer maturities which are looking more attractive," said Michael Gartner, a debt analyst at ING Capital Markets.
Estimated daily bond turnover has grown to 900 million to one billion crowns, equal to turnover on the Prague stock exchange, from 500 million a year ago.
"The bond market is becoming even more important for foreign investors because they can get reasonable prices," said Alojz Lacko, a bond trader at Patria Finance.
Reasonable prices are something investors, foreign and domestic, have long complained they cannot find on the equities market where insufficient legislation has pushed an estimated 70 percent of trading into murky off-market dealing, and trampled minority shareholder rights.
Many strategic and speculative investors have taken advantage of the opaque system to buy up large stakes in firms without prices or counter-parties being made public until long after the deal has been made.
Bourse and Finance Ministry officials have stepped up their campaign in recent months to assure investors tighter, more stringent rules for trading will be introduced. But analysts say the moves appear to be too little, too late for investors who are turning away from Czech equities.
"Investors are really put off by the (trading) practices here and frankly, it will be hard to lure some back. But we don't have these problems in the debt market, and a lot are turning their attentions there," said one local trader.
ING's Gartner said investor motivation for entering the debt market is in many ways different from equity investments. Investor fears of having the carpet pulled out from under them by an off-market takeover deal are non-existent.
"The bond market is completely transparent because prices are transparent. It's a good market: it works, it's liquid, foreign investors, domestic investors, pension funds, investment funds all participate on an even field," he said.
A recent spate of positive economic indicators has further buoyed the market.
Inflation, one of the lowest in the region, eased further in October with the year-on-year rate standing at 8.7 percent.
The central bank's war on a burgeoning money supply has also borne fruit recently, with the expansion of the key M2 year-on-year rate falling to 13.2 percent at the end of August, just below its 14-17 percent target.
Although investor sentiment has traditionally been bearish on East European bonds because of currency risks, high taxation and political and economic instability, analysts say these factors are less significant in the Czech Republic.
While rates may be higher in neghbouring Poland and Hungary, the markets are very illiquid, especially in local currency corporate issues.
But with the strength and stability of the crown the Czech market is attractive because an investor can add a play on the local currency, and have little fear of currency risk since it is tied closely to the mark.
Traders say the government has also helped by easing currency exchange laws to help foreign investors repatriate their holdings. Foreigners may repatriate interest income on bonds as well as income from selling or redeeming them.
-- Prague newsroom (42 2) 24 23 0003
China's power minister vowed Thursday to protect the interests of foreign investors expected to provide one-fifth of the 700 billion yuan ($84 billion) to be invested in power generation between 1996 and 2000.
Foreign investment in the electricity generation sector would be carefully channelled to boost China's domestic industry, power minister Shi Dazhen told a business conference.
"We have established a legal framework to protect foreign investors," Shi told reporters at the conference.
Beijing would perfect its laws and regulations to ensure that investor interests were guaranteed, he said.
China's electricity generating capacity would hit 290,000 megawatts by the end of 2000 from 217,000 megawatts at the end of 1995, Shi said.
China would require around 700 billion yuan ($84.4 million) investment in the power sector during Beijing's state-set ninth five-year plan, which runs from 1996-2000, he said.
Foreign investors were expected to come up with 20 percent -- around $17 billion -- while the central government provided 40 percent and local authorities and enterprises shelled out the remaining 40 percent, he said but gave no details.
The investment estimates appeared to be lower than those made by other senior power officials last month, who said China would need $20 billion from abroad.
Shi said he was unaware of the $20 billion figure.
Potential foreign investors have said an effective 15 percent limit on returns on investment from Chinese power plant projects is a major disincentive, but Shi waved aside such concerns, saying any specific limit would be impractical.
Chinese energy officials have consistently denied setting any limit on returns, although they have said the best rate from key projects is around 17 percent.
Chinese electricity prices are fixed by the state, which has kept prices low.
Shi said foreign investors remained keen to put their money behind Chinese efforts to build enough generating capacity to keep up with rocketing economic growth and to raise per capita capacity from the meagre 180 watts achieved by the end of 1995.
"Although the power industry has developed very quickly, because China has a population of 1.2 billion, the power supply is still very tight and the supply level is very low," he said.
"There is great enthusiasm among foreigners to invest in this sector," he said, adding that such investment should be carefully guided.
"The use of foreign investment must be combined with that of China's own power manufacturing industry, with foreign funds used to buy Chinese-made generating equipment," he said.
Foreign funds would be focused on high technology plants with capacity of 300 megawatts or more, he said.
Beijing says it wants to replace inefficient thermal power stations that burn dirty high-sulphur coal with larger new plants and with nuclear and hydro-electric projects.
China announced on Thursday that a court had rejected the appeal by a son of one of the country's politically powerful families, upholding a suspended death sentence for bribery.
The court showed leniency to Zhou Beifang, 43, former chairman of Hong Kong-listed affiliates of the giant state-owned Capital Iron and Steel Corp (Shougang), because he showed remorse, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Zhou's death sentence was suspended for two years. Such suspensions usually mean the sentence will not be carried out if the prisoner repents and cooperates with authorities.
Zhou is one of China's so-called "princelings", or children of the ruling party elite, who enjoy wide influence due to their top level connections.
The Zhou family has close ties to the family of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
The court also showed leniency because Zhou voluntarily returned ill-gotten wealth even before prosecutors obtained evidence against him, Xinhua said.
Zhou was convicted of accepting bribes totalling 9.28 million Hong Kong dollars ($1.2 million) between June 1993 and April 1994, Xinhua said. It gave no details of who paid Zhou the bribes or why.
He was also found guilty of paying 1.2 million yuan ($144,600) in bribes to three people, including two former officials of the Beijing city government, so that his wife and daughter could move to the British colony, it said.
Xinhua quoted the Supreme Court as announcing the decision though it was the appeals court that handed down the verdict.
The agency gave no explanation. It did not say when Zhou was convicted, when he appealed or why his appeal was turned down.
Court officials reached by telephone declined comment.
State television showed a grim Zhou wearing a stylish, striped blue shirt and examining documents held by a court policeman as a court tribunal looked on.
Zhou's conviction was part of a highly-publicised anti-graft campaign launched by China last year. It led to the suicide of a Beijing vice-mayor in April 1995 and the fall of his mentor, former Beijing Communist Party boss Chen Xitong.
Zhou's father, Zhou Guanwu, 78, resigned as chairman and Communist Party secretary of Shougang in February 1995, citing old age. He stepped down days after his son's detention.
The court also rejected the appeal of co-defendant Chen Jian, 39, former deputy director of the General Office of the Communist Party's Beijing Municipal Committee. It upheld his 15-year prison sentence for accepting bribes from Zhou, Xinhua said.
Another former official of the Beijing city government, Li Min, did not appeal against his sentence of life imprisonment, also for accepting bribes from Zhou, the agency said.
In a related case, the court rejected the appeal of businessman He Shiping, who was sentenced to 16 years for accepting bribes. A fifth defendant, who was given five years in prison, did not appeal, it said.
Television showed lengthy footage that include Li staring at the floor and a dejected He Shiping wiping tears from his eyes.
Corruption was virtually eliminated in the years after the communists came to power in 1949. But it has staged a comeback since economic reforms were introduced 17 years ago as living standards climb but at the cost of eroding party discipline.
European Commission Vice President Sir Leon Brittan suggested on Thursday that China might soon see progress on its plan to join the World Trade Organisation but Beijing played down chances of a breakthrough.
Brittan said he might press the United States to move forward on China's drive to join the WTO if Beijing would give an assurance that it supported the European position.
"I will certainly take up the matter with the Americans with extreme urgency ... urging them that the time has come to adopt the approach that Europe has pioneered," he told a business conference in the Chinese capital.
"I hope even before the end of this visit to be able to announce some specific action" in advancing the process, he said.
Europe has maintained that it would be flexible on requirements for China's full implementation of WTO rules. But Beijing had to make clear its commitment to full compliance and show progress on granting access to its domestic markets.
China's Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Wu Yi on Thursday appeared to be unconvinced that the United States, which has been a key hurdle to Beijing's drive to join the global trade organisation, was ready to change its stance.
"Their intentions are kind-hearted," said Wu in a reference to the European effort. "But the question of China's accession to the World Trade Organisation is not entirely decided by the European Union," she told reporters at the same business conference.
Beijing has been pushing to join the WTO under the more lenient terms of developing nation status but Washington has insisted that China's economy is too big for such treatment.
Brittan, who is leading a delegation of 30 European business leaders hoping to tap into the Chinese market, said he would meet senior Chinese officials, including Vice Premier Zhu Rongji and foreign trade minister Wu.
Brittan made it clear that a reaffirmation of Chinese acceptance of the European position would be enough for him to try to take his case to the United States.
"The U.S. was erecting very high hurdles to be surmounted," he said of the American position.
But he said the end of the U.S. presidential election campaign could be an opportunity for making progress in the negotiations.
"Recent stirrings in the media...suggest that the U.S. is perhaps readier now than over the past two years to heed European calls for decisive engagement on this negotiation," Brittan said.
Brittan praised China for making strides in strengthening intellectual property rights though he said more market access was needed.
He also warned that Europe would not be discriminated against in the Chinese market, and he singled out bilateral shipping agreements as an area of concern.
"Europe cannot accept unequal treatment and will not be discriminated against," he said.
On Wednesday, Chinese leaders denounced Beijing's exclusion from the WTO as unjust, saying the world's largest developing nation had made great strides in opening its markets to trade and investment.
Beijing also lashed out on Thursday at European Union investigations into Chinese textile exports, hinting at retaliatory measures if the probes led to anti-dumping measures.
China will defrock radical monks in Tibet in a crackdown that could last up to five years in a bid to uproot the influence of the Dalai Lama in his Himalayan homeland, a Chinese propaganda official said on Thursday.
"Lamas who are comparatively reactionary will be told to return to secular life," the propaganda official said by telephone from Tibet's capital, Lhasa.
"Reorganisation of monasteries... will consist mainly of ideological education... It could continue for three to five years," said the official, who declined to identify himself.
China has vowed to curb the influence of Buddhism and the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled god-king, in the region, saying religion must conform to socialism instead of the other way round.
Atheist China views religion as feudal superstition though it tolerates a limited degree of religious freedom.
"Religious culture... not only hampers social development and economic development, but also stops people becoming more civilised," the official Tibet Daily said in an edition seen in Beijing on Thursday.
The newspaper complained last week that monks in Tibet outnumbered students and more money was spent on monasteries than on Communist Party buildings.
"Monasteries will not be closed... (but) work teams will enter and be stationed at monasteries," the propaganda official said.
For several months, China has been stationing "work teams" in Tibetan monasteries. The teams force monks into study sessions on becoming more "patriotic" and into signing pledges supporting Chinese authorities.
"Those aspects of religion which fail to adapt to social development and impede social progress will be eliminated... to prevent the Dalai Lama from using religion to engage in splittist activities," the official said.
There were 1,787 temples in Tibet by early 1996, with 46,000 monks and nuns -- exceeding the number of high school students in the region, the Tibet Daily has said.
The newspaper has complained that healthy young Tibetans were entering the clergy and living off alms instead of working.
China has shut many temples in Tibet in recent years to try to eradicate the influence of the Dalai Lama, who fled into exile in India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against communist rule.
The Dalai Lama won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign for autonomy for his homeland, but Beijing views international support for Tibet's holiest man as a Western plot to split China and contain its development.
Beijing says the Dalai Lama is a political activist and not a purely religious figure.
"The spiritual realm is the main battlefield of our struggle against the Dalai Lama clique," the Tibet Daily said.
The newspaper said last week some temples in Tibet were controlled by supporters of the Dalai Lama and had become the headquarters and venue of separatist forces at home and abroad to engage in separatist activities.
It blamed monks and nuns for creating disturbances and sabotaging stability since 1987. Tibet has been rocked by repeated anti-Chinese protests that Beijing charges are stirred up by the Dalai Lama's supporters.
Japan's Finance Ministry pledged on Thursday to lift its controls on management of employee pension funds, a key member of an advisory panel to the prime minister said.
At a meeting of the Administrative Reform Council's subcommittee on deregulation, the ministry clearly stated it would abolish restrictions on where employee pension funds managed by trust banks could be invested, Yoshihiko Miyauchi, chairman of the subcommittee, told reporters.
Under current rules, each trust bank must invest at least half of the funds it manages in fixed-income assets, such as Japanese government bonds, no more than 30 percent in Japanese stocks, no more than 30 percent in foreign currency-denominated shares and bonds, and no more than 20 percent in real estate.
Miyauchi said the Finance Ministry said it would work out details on lifting its regulations on asset allocation by the end of the year.
Japan's corporate pension system is divided into employee pension funds, which are supervised by the Welfare Ministry, and Tax-Qualified Retirement Pension (TQP) plans, which are supervised by the Finance Ministry.
The Welfare Ministry abolished its restrictions on asset management by trust banks in April.
Industry sources currently estimate assets in employee pension funds at about 42 trillion yen ($378 billion) and those in TQPs at about 18 trillion yen ($162 billion).
However, Miyauchi quoted Finance Ministry officials as saying the ministry was still considering whether it would allow investment advisory companies to manage TQP plans.
At the moment, only trust banks and life insurers are allowed to manage them.
The Welfare Ministry has already lifted the rules it had to prevent investment advisory companies managing employee pension funds, although some restrictions remain on the firms.
Japanese corporations have been urging the government to reform Japan's rigid corporate pension system in the face of low returns on investment and to help maintain the international competitiveness of Japanese firms.
Employers participating in the corporate pension system are required to maintain specified yields, currently 5.5 percent a year, to guarantee pre-determined benefits.
However, the actual return on pension funds' investments is now about three percent, due to Japan's record-low interest rates and weak economic recovery, industry sources say.
Miyauchi said the Finance Ministry told the sub-committee it was studying ways to relax specified yields but had not given details.
Securities industry sources said the abolition of restrictions on asset management would encourage fund managers to pump more money into Tokyo's stock market in order to boost returns on investment. ($1=111)
A Chinese court on Friday will consider the appeal of dissident Wang Dan against his 11-year sentence for plotting to overthrow the government, a hearing held days before a visit by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
The Beijing Higher People's Court was widely expected to reject the 27-year-old dissident's appeal and uphold his conviction, Chinese lawyers said. In China, appellate courts rarely overturn rulings by lower courts.
Asked what the chances were of an acquittal, Wang's mother, Wang Lingyun, told Reuters on Thursday: "I feel there's practically none. There is no precedent."
Wang's appeal comes four days before the scheduled arrival of the U.S. secretary of state, who diplomats say was expected to raise human rights issues in his meetings with Chinese leaders during his November 19-21 visit.
Sino-U.S. relations have been strained over the last year by a range of issues from human rights to Taiwan to arms proliferation and trade.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai told a briefing on Thursday that Wang's trial had no bearing on Sino-U.S. relations because it involved a Chinese citizen and not an American.
Beijing has slammed Western criticism of its human rights record as interference in its internal affairs.
Christopher would not be not alone in bringing up Beijing's shortcomings in human rights.
Former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher said on Thursday that harsh sentences slapped on Wang and Wei Jingsheng, widely known as the father of China's modern democracy movement, had caused dismay in the international community.
"The recent harsh sentences imposed on Mr Wei and Mr Wang have caused dismay in the wider world," Thatcher told a business conference in Beijing.
Last week, Swedish Prime Minister Goran Persson said he had expressed his misgivings over the jailing of Wang to his Chinese counterpart, Li Peng.
Wang's mother said court officials had told her that she would be able to attend her son's hearing as one of two defence lawyers, but she would not be allowed to speak. She has submitted a written defence.
The dissident's father and older sister would also be allowed to sit in on the hearing at the appellate court in Beijing, the mother said.
"If we don't go, Wang Dan would feel even more isolated. Our going is spiritual encouragement for him," the mother said.
The dissident's lawyer is unlikely to attend because only Wang would be allowed to speak.
The jailing of Wang was the latest in a series of crushing blows to China's struggling pro-democracy movement. Most dissidents have already been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or labour camps.
The lower court took less than four hours to convict and sentence Wang on October 30.
Wang had already served four years in prison for his role as a leader of student demonstrations for democracy that were crushed by the military with heavy loss of life in 1989.
The New York-based Human Rights in China has denounced what it said was the "secret trial" of Wang on a trumped up charge.
China said it was an open and fair trial but Human Rights in China said no foreign reporters, diplomats or other international observers were allowed to attend.
There has been no mention of Wang's conviction in the local Chinese-language media.
Some of the Internet startups due to make their debut at next week's Comdex computer industry show have little more to their name than a few ambitious entrepreneurs, business cards and a Web site.
But the 60 or so companies scheduled to make presentations to prospective investors at the first Comdex Venture Outlook represent the cutting edge of high-technology investment in the mushrooming Internet market.
"There are dozens, maybe a few hundred, new companies that are being created every day that have to do with the Internet," said Richard Shaffer, principal of New York-based Technologic Partners, who assembled the executives.
"It's the biggest thing to hit computing in at least 20 years," he said, which is why Comdex organisers Softbank Corp. engaged Shaffer's group to bring young private companies at the centre of Web innovation to the largest U.S. trade show.
Included in the presentations will be the heads of some of the hottest Internet companies, including Kim Polese, the chief executive of Palo Alto-based Marimba Inc., who by some accounts is credited with naming Sun Microsystems Inc.'s hot new Java computer programming platform.
Formed in February by four members of Sun's original Java team, Marimba a month ago unveiled its Castanet package of software development tools for sending out applications and content over the Internet.
Other speakers include NetAngels Chief Executive Mark Goldstein, whose company is backed by such high-profile investors as high-tech guru Esther Dyson and former Time Warner Inc. chief executive Nicholas Nicholas.
Also speaking is David Arnold, head of InterMind, a Seattle-area startup backed by mobile phone pioneer Craig McCaw, which recently launched its InterMind Communicator linking people anonymously to Web sites of their choice.
Shaffer said the list includes access, content and tools companies which are primarily looking at ways to apply Internet technologies to the internal corporate networks known as intranets.
Some companies have no more than five or 10 people at the moment, and most have received some venture capital. Many, though, are at such an early stage of financing that the $50,000 fee for a booth at Comdex would have been too costly.
Although there was an abrupt slowdown in Internet initial public offerings over the summer, analysts and investors expect the market to heat up again.
The pace of venture investment may not continue at its red-hot rate of the second quarter, when Price Waterhouse LLP reported 556 firms received $2.8 billion in venture capital, up 32 percent from a year earlier. But new investment appears poised to top the 1995 record of $7.5 billion.
"Judging by preliminary numbers, it is virtually assured that 1996 is going to be a record year," said Kirk Walden, who is compiling the firm's third-quarter venture capital survey.
Walden said venture capital funds invested $5.2 billion in the first nine months of 1995.
"The technology category continues to be what's driving overall investment," he added.
Technologic Partners' Shaffer admits it remains a difficult task for investors to sort out which companies will be a success in markets that may take years to develop despite the intense interest and hype surrounding the Internet.
Furthermore, many startup companies have been forced to reinvent themselves with frequently updated business plans as the fast-paced Internet market evolves.
"It's initially going to be a very big market for a lot of players, and it will be quite some time before we know what the best business models are," Shaffer said. "Developing the Internet and electronic commerce ... is going to be a decades-long process. We're just at the beginning."
A gunman in military fatigues burst into a Ford Motor Co. assembly plant and opened fire Thursday, killing one and wounding two others before eluding police in a series of draininge tunnels.
Police said they trapped the man and he gave up voluntarily after a tense, four and a half-hour standoff.
Sgt. Clarence Goodlein of the Wixom police said the white male shot and killed one Ford employee and wounded another, then left the plant and shot an Oakland County Sheriff's deputy in the shoulder when police tried to confront him.
Goodlein did not identify the victims, but a Ford worker, Jim Maher, said the man killed was a foreman at the plant.
Deputy Matt Miller, 39, was listed in stable condition and was expected to undergo surgery Thursday afternoon, said Amy Middleton, a spokeswoman for Providence Park Medical Center.
The other worker, Alvin Akers, 43, was treated and released, with a bullet fragment in his arm and glass fragments in his neck.
Goodlein said authorities did not immediately know whether the gunman was a Ford employee.
"This guy came into the plant and with some kind of weapon starting shooting all over the place," said Ford spokesman Bill Carroll.
Police shut down nearby Interstate 96, which runs parallel to the plant. Workers were evacuated from the plant and production of Lincoln Town Cars, Continentals and Mark VIII luxury cars was suspended until Monday.
Carroll said the gunman opened fire in several sections of the plant before before leaving and shooting in the direction of the nearby Interstate.
Witnesses said the gunman was dressed in camouflage, with a dark cap and carried an assault-type rifle. It was not known whether he was an employee at the plant, but several said they thought he may be going on a deer hunting vacation.
One employee at the plant, who identified herself as Christy, told WWJ Radio the gunman told her, "Get out of here" before he started shooting in the plant.
"He knew what he was doing. He just started shooting, and when he ran out of ammo, he just reloaded and kept on shooting," she saiid.
The shooting is the third at a Ford plant in the Detroit area since August 1994. It also falls on the fifth anniversary of a 1991 tragedy in which a fired postal worker went on a shooting rampage at the Royal Oak, Mich., post office, killing himself and four others.
In August of this year, a Ford employee killed a security guard at a Ford climate control plant in Plymouth, Mich., then shot himself. On January 7, 1995, a Ford worker at the same factory wounded his estranged wife, killed her boyfriend, then shot himself to death.
In August 1994, a United Auto Workers official at Ford's Rouge industrial complex in Dearborn, Mich., shot two of his fellow union committeemen to death and wounded two others in a dispute over union policy.
Chrysler Corp, also has had its share of tragedy. In December 1994, a worker upset about a job assignment killed his foreman and wounded a coworker at a metal stamping plant in Sterling Heights, Mich.
This year's Comdex, the world's most influential computer trade show, will be the showcase for some unusual computers, including machines the size of paperback books.
A host of companies will introduce second-generation handheld computers, about the size of paperbacks, which can do much of the work their desktop counterparts handle.
The trade show, expected to draw 250,000 people to Las Vegas next week, also will feature the digital video disc, or DVD, an advanced compact disc for playing movies and storing computer information.
In addition International Business Machines Corp., Microsoft Corp. and other industry giants are expected to take their year-old battle over rival approaches to simplifying personal computers to the trade show floor.
Moreso than in recent years, this year's show will highlight how the PC, the centre of a $400 billion global industry, is moving into new venues such as the living room entertainment cabinet, shirt pockets and the backs of airline seats, industry executives said.
"As more and more of the population gains experience with PCs, the types of products consumers select will diversify, and the major players have to accommodate them," said Tom Grueskin, marketing manager at computer maker Gateway 2000 Inc.
Microsoft will kick off Comdex on Sunday night with the introduction of Windows CE, a computer programme that will run on handheld computers. Several companies, including Compaq Computer Corp., NEC Corp. and LG Electronics Inc. will unveil devices using the software.
The handheld PCs represent the industry's second big push in four years to sell tiny computers for managing appointments and contacts and keeping in touch with the office.
Analysts said the new more powerful machines will let users do things earlier models were not good at, such as writing lengthy e-mail and tapping the Internet. Microsoft has made strides in making it easier for the handhelds to share information with desktops, analysts said.
Microsoft also will unveil Microsoft Office 97, a major revision of its top-selling package of business programmes. The product will be one of the biggest revenue generators for the world's biggest PC software company, analysts said.
Consumer electronics companies will crash Comdex this year to formally introduce DVD. The technology is based on compact discs similar to music CDs, but with many times the storage capacity.
Next year, Toshiba Corp., Sony Corp., Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. and several other companies will sell DVDs that can play movies and music.
At Comdex, the computer arms of the consumer electronics companies will unveil DVD storage devices that plug into PCs. The so-called DVD-ROM players are expected to spur development of video games that use sophisticated 3-D animation.
By the middle of next year, high-end consumer PCs will be equipped with DVD-ROM players, said Paul Dempsey, senior vice president at Pioneer Electronic Corp.'s New Media division. Several game software companies will have DVD-based products ready to show at Comdex.
By early 1998, some DVD-equipped laptops may even be able to play full-length, full-screen movies, analysts said.
Comdex may also become an arena this year for competing versions of so-called network computers -- bare bones PCs that get most of their computing power from corporate or public computer networks.
IBM will introduce several network computers, geared toward corporate customers who need simple terminals for data entry and customer service tasks.
Meanwhile, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates and Intel Corp. Chief Executive Andy Grove may give some details in keynote speeches about their companies' plans to redesign the guts of the PC to make them easier to maintain and upgrade.
Both Gates and Groves had pooh-poohed the concept of the network computer, but decided to take a second look when it became clear consumers were intrigued by the possibility of no-brainer PCs.
With Chairman Jack Smith behind the wheel of a shiny red EV1, General Motors Corp. rolled its first electric vehicle out of the plant Thursday, marking what it dubbed the start of a new era in the auto industry.
The car was loaded on the back of an auto-hauling truck at the Lansing Craft Centre that will take it on the first leg of its journey to the West Coast. The cars will go on sale Dec. 5 at 26 Saturn dealerships in Los Angeles, San Diego, Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz.
"When they look back on the next 100 years of the evolution of the automobile, they will agree that this car was the first in a new generation of vehicles that redefined the limits of technology and efficiency," Smith said during the drive-away ceremony.
GM spent $350 million and more than six years to develop the two-passenger, sleek-looking coupe. The car is the first and only GM vehicle to carry a GM badge, instead of a name from one of its other seven divisions.
While other automakers have developed and are selling electrically powered vehicles, GM says the EV1 is the first vehicle to be designed from the ground up as an electric car.
In his remarks, Smith called the EV1 "the most technologically advanced vehicle platform in the world," incorporating 23 new patents.
The EV1 is powered by 26 12-volt lead-acid batteries. It can travel up to 90 miles before it needs recharging. The fully equipped EV1 comes with standard features, including air conditioning, dual air bags, anti-lock brakes, power windows and door locks. It can go from 0 to 60 mph in less than nine seconds, and has a top speed of 80 mph.
GM announced in October that it will sell the EV1 through a 36-month lease at a sticker price of $33,995. Buyers who receive a $5,000 credit from the state of California will be able to lease an EV1 for $480 a month. Monthly payments without the credit would be $640. The cost does not include a wall-mounted charger, which sells for about $2,000.
Production of the EV1 began at the Lansing Craft Centre in August. GM officials will not discuss how many EV1s they intend to sell or produce annually, although the Lansing facility has the capacity to make about 2,000 of the vehicles annually.
So far, Saturn has received more than 1,000 calls from potential buyers on a toll-free line, said Joe Kennedy, vice president of sales and marketing for the division. Of that, Saturn estimates about 250 are "serious" buyers.
Talking to reporters after the ceremony, Smith said GM viewed the electric vehicle market as a long-term programme. He again would not say when the EV1 will turn a profit for GM.
"Our effort is to make the programme over time to be a business," he said. "The niche is small to start, but it will grow."
Kennedy said the initial focus is not on volume but on generating a positive shopping, buying and ownership experience. He said the company will remain flexible in its production and sales plans to adjust to demand.
"This is a totally new market, and we don't know what the demand will be on any given month of year," he said, noting that Saturn has 13 EV1 specialists who have completed two months of special sales training.
BZW, the investment banking arm of Barclays Plc, has restructured its Global Markets division in another step towards reshaping its business to compete wth global rivals, banking sources said on Thursday.
BZW has been carrying out a top-to-bottom review of the markets business including matching staff profiles and skills against the needs of sustaining a profitable business.
The review resulted in around 30 people leaving this week, including Alex von Ungern-Sternberg, deputy chief executive of Global Markets, and Klaus-Peter Moeritz, head of foreign exchange trading in the UK and Europe.
But not all were at such high levels. Those departing also include seven foreign exchange traders, metals traders, secretaries and telephonists.
In an internal memo, Bob Diamond, who has been Global Markets chief since July, said von Ungern-Sternberg had decided to leave after the new structure was put in place as his role "was substantially narrower."
Since Bill Harrison joined BZW as chief executive from Robert Fleming there have been the usual personnel changes associated with the investment banking business.
There was no room, for example, for Barclays veteran Donald Brydon who had been running BZW after its previous head, David Band, died earlier in the year.
Harrison and Diamond are thought to be working on methods to make profitability more sustainable -- a quandary which is at the centre of the debate on the investment banking industry.
The industry's detractors, among them Lloyds TSB chief Brian Pitman, always point to the fact that the revenue stream cannot be relied upon as it is subject to market volatility.
In the good times, when markets are booming and mergers and acquisitions on a roll, investment banks rake in profits as if there is no tomorrow and the participants get paid huge bonuses.
But in the bad times, the banks can rack up heavy losses in markets which suddenly look very over-populated.
Diamond, in common with the head of the Barclays group, chief executive Martin Taylor, is known to want to intensify the return on capital employed in the business.
He knows that unless BZW's profits are sustained at high levels, he will find it difficult to put together the kind of team needed to succeed in an increasingly competitive and crowded environment.
No aspect of BZW's markets business from gilts to JGBs (Japanese government bond) and dollar/yen to copper will be left out of the in-depth review, banking sources added.
In the meantime BZW, along with other banks, will also continue to react to more short-term events in the markets.
For example the departure of foreign exchange traders follows a period of reduced volatility in the market over the last few months.
Ironically, such periods of volatility are key to both outperformance and underperformance which dictate returns on capital for investment banks.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864
After 11 days of number crunching, telecoms analysts remain split over the financial merits of British Telecommunications's (BT) $20 billion proposed merger with America's MCI Communications.
Some insist the deal is at best neutral, with synergy benefits just about offsetting the 30 percent premium BT paid.
BT, which posted second quarter pretax profits ahead of expectations at 730 million pounds ($1.21 billion) on Thursday, has been traditionally considered a less inspiring stock than faster-growing, smaller UK rivals like Cable &amp; Wireless.
But when the telecoms giant announced on November 3 its plans to link up with MCI to form one of the world's biggest international telecoms groups, some brokers promptly recommended buying BT's shares up to 400 pence.
However the stock failed to rise substantially on the MCI move -- and some analysts changed their "buy" recommendations back to "hold".
MCI investors, bailing out after the deal with the larger and slower BT, have also been blamed for BT's lagging shares.
But some analysts said they thought the shares were now fairly valued and brushed aside BT projections of double digit growth from the new enlarged BT/MCI group, to be called Concert.
"(The deal) changes the way BT looks but it doesn't change the price it should be at," noted one analyst.
But not all analysts are so bearish. Daiwa's telecoms analyst John Clarke said he believed the deal would boost BT's five year earnings per share compound growth from 5.5 percent in 1996/97 to between seven and eight percent.
"The problem is that the benefits from the acquisition won't become apparent for a couple of years," he said. "But it has given BT the confidence to signal that it can increase the rate of its dividend growth (to six percent), which presumably it wouldn't have done otherwise."
BT is paying its shareholders a 35 pence special dividend as part of the deal, as well as forecasting a final 1995/96 dividend rise of 6.1 percent to 19.85 pence.
The split in analysts' views on the merger, trumpeted as the biggest transatlatic deal ever, highlights the complexities of valuing telecoms stocks.
BT, whose long-distance businesses are faced with ever fiercer competition, is pitched against companies such as Vodafone, whose sole business as a mobile telephone operator is booming. Vodafone is also seen as a potential takeover target.
BT's relative performance has lagged rivals in the FTSE telecoms sector by almost six percent since early June 1995 and the wider FTSE All-Share index by over 20 percent.
Although BT is a prolific cash generator, its gross dividend yield has topped seven percent in the past year, reflecting the opportunity cost of investing in a highly regulated stock where growth prospects may be limited.
Analysts polled by Edinburgh Financial Publishing, a third party data provider, see the dividend yield slipping to near six percent in the year to March 1998. But it remains stubbornly above smaller rivals.
C&amp;W and Vodafone's gross dividend yield is nearer 2.5 percent, according to EFP.
According to Reuters 3000 analysis, BT's price earnings ratio (PE) is currently only 11.5 compared with Vodafone's hefty 24, while C&amp;W, with its prize Hong Kong Telecommunications stake, has a PE of 17.4.
A sector rating of nearly 21 -- against a market PE of around 15.25 -- underlines the growth prospects as well as the possibilities of takeovers or demergers that some investors see in some parts of the telecoms industry.
But some analysts argue that comparing PE ratios is no longer a valid way of deducing future earnings potential.
"For companies other than mega carriers like BT, it's not really a PE story anymore, it's a strategic value story," said Andrew Harrington, telecoms analyst at Salomon Brothers.
"When assessing the growth potential moving forward, you've got to look at each stock with reference to the operating environment compared to the others," he added.
Harrington doubts BT's predictions of double digit growth for Concert, pitching growth forecasts nearer 8-9 percent, dented by a loss of margin and earnings suffered by BT at home and abroad in the face increasing competition.
"Just as it makes a lot of sense for BT to invest a lot of money in the U.S., so it makes a lot of sense for other big international carriers to invest a lot of money in the UK.
"At the end of the day, BT is not going to compensate for the fact that there's going to be another turn of the screw in tariff declines in the next five years in the UK," he said. ($1=.6054 Pound)
Twelve years as a privatised business have left British Telecommunications Plc (BT) leaner and more efficient, with its staff halved -- but with few growth prospects in one of the world's most competitive markets.
Persistent wrangles with industry regulator Don Cruickshank over uncompetitive practices have helped depress BT's relative market performance. Its shares have lagged rivals in the FTSE telecoms sector by almost six percent since early June 1995 and the wider FTSE All-Share index by over 20 percent.
But analysts say the millions of hopeful investors signing up for the latest European telecommunications sell-off -- Germany's $12 billion sale of about 23 percent of Deutsche Telekom -- have little to fear under a more lenient regulatory regime than that faced by its British counterpart.
"The overall spirit of Deutsche Telekom's regulatory regime is supportive," says broker ABN AMRO Hoare Govett in London. "The current regime provides investors with a high level of earnings visibility. It runs until 2001, whereas most European regulatory arrangements expire in 1998."
BT, which first stepped onto the privatisation launchpad in November 1984, now employs about 130,000 staff and has a gearing level, or debt-to-equity ratio, of around seven percent. Since 1994, around 110,000 jobs have gone. BT LOOKS ABROAD
Ever fiercer competition at home has forced BT to seek growth abroad. This month, the company launched an assault on America's $100 billion a year local telephone market with a $20 billion merger with MCI Communications. The deal would create the world's second biggest international carrier.
BT still controls nine-tenths of the UK residential market, but stiff competition for international and business calls and tough regulation have helped the group forge a deal -- however defensive -- analysts say may turn it into a world class firm.
"BT has exploited its lead...in doing a deal with MCI while the UK is squeaky clean as far as open markets are concerned -- certainly by comparison with anyone else," said one analyst.
As the technological revolution sweeps the market and the cost of delivering an ordinary telephone call plunges, customers can already avoid excessive international charges by using several sorts of wireless telephone, cable telephony in some countries, callback services and Internet telephony.
Since 1991, the British international telecoms duopoly between BT and its much smaller rival Cable and Wireless' Mercury Communications unit was ended, allowing rivals to carry calls by leasing BT and Mercury lines.
International competition will be complete from January 1, 1997, when all 46 rivals to BT and Mercury, such as U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T, will be free to build and operate their own infrastructure without having to make costly settlement payments for using other networks.
The rest of Europe is only due to break up telecoms monopolies, which have relied on national and international restrictions to shore up their profits, by January 1998. EASIER REGIME FOR DEUTSCHE TELEKOM
While BT has to cut its prices under an inflation minus 7.5 percent (RPI-7.5) formula at the moment, a cap that will be eased to RPI-4.5 percent from August 1997, Deutsche Telekom will operate under a price cap requiring it to cut tariffs by only three percent below inflation in each of two years to 1998/99.
Deutsche Telekom, due to start trade next week, revealed to analysts during syndicate meetings that past high investment levels have left it with a gearing level of more than 400 percent. It will cut staff to 170,000 from 207,000 by 2000.
But the company is now generating five to 10 billion marks ($3.32-$6.64 billion) of net cash annually, and analysts in London expect interest costs to fall by an average of 0.5 billion marks per year.
While restructuring and other factors have depressed Deutsche Telekom's net profits, earnings are expected to recover strongly during 1997 and beyond, analysts say.
($1=1.5059 Mark)
International Business Machines Corp. said Wednesday it agreed to buy Edmark Corp., a publisher of children's education software, for $80 million in cash in a move to focus its consumer business on learning at home.
The world's largest computer maker said it would launch a tender offer for all of Edmark at $15.50 a share. The company, based in Redmond, Wash., where software giant Microsoft Corp. is based, makes software aimed at students in kindergarten through 12th grade.
Analysts said the move will strengthen IBM's effort to market personal computers and software to consumers.
"Edmark has some very valuable properties. This acquisition should be seen as one in a series of major moves that will help IBM achieve some of its goals in the consumer market," said Richard Zwetchkenbaum, director of consumer research at International Data Corp., a market research firm.
Analysts said many of Edmark's titles, including its newly released Mighty Math Series, Stanley's Stickers Stories and its Thinkin' Things Series, were gaining popularity.
Some of IBM's consumer software titles, such as its recent CD-ROM based on the Pinnochio movie, and other CD-ROMS with movie tie-ins, have not fared well.
"They have had mixed results," Zwetchkenbaum said, referring to IBM.
The deal will also give Edmark access to IBM's worldwide distribution network, which it needs to compete in the cut-throat consumer retail market, where the fight for shelf space can sometimes make or break a software company.
Following the news, Edmark's stock jumped $3.8125 to $15.25 on Nasdaq and IBM rose $1.50 to $134.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
IBM said the directors and executive officers of Edmark have agreed to sell their shares.
IBM said it plans to operate the unit under the Edmark name in Redmond, with Jim Firestone, the head of its consumer business, overseeing and directing operations. Edmark will be the core of its plans to focus more on educational computers.
"This gives us a very strong foundation," said Firestone, general manager, IBM Consumer Division, in an interview. "We are working with a handful of other firms, but I expect Edmark to be the real core of this activity. It is a base upon which we expect to grow."
Firestone, formerly an American Express Co. executive, was named to head IBM's newly created consumer business in July 1995. He faced the daunting task of overhauling IBM's previous forays into the home PC market, which have not gone well. Nor is it well known for its consumer software.
As part of refocusing IBM in the consumer arena, Firestone said IBM will only choose a few places to compete, and one of those areas will be the family educational market.
"I am not interested in the entertainment side of consumer software," Firestone said. He also said IBM's latest Aptiva home PC models introduced in September were gaining market share. The machines are being marketed as a family learning tool and Edmark software will fit with that focus.
Analysts also said more deals in educational software could be coming since stock prices have fallen. Edmark's shares have traded as as $43.50.
The low price that IBM paid for Edmark, "reflects the distress of the industry," said Scott McAdams, of Ragen Mackenzie. "The whole sector's fortunes have changed."
British water and sewerage company South West Water saw half year profits surge on Thursday and it hiked its dividend 20 percent, as expected, with a promise of real dividend increases of eight percent in coming years.
"The dividend policy will continue to be based on the pursuit of progressive growth," the company said in a statement.
South West Water's pretax profits for the six months ending September 30 rose to 72.9 million pounds ($120.4 million), up 35 percent and ahead of expectations which were between 57 and 68 million pounds.
It had promised to pay out an interim dividend of 11.8 pence when two proposed bids for it, from Severn Trent and Wessex, were blocked by the UK government in October.
In a statement, the company said it hoped to raise the total dividend for the year by 20 percent and then reach eight percent real increases in the annual payout to shareholders.
But the half year surge in profits was unlikely to be repeated, finance director Ken Hill told Reuters.
"I do not think a 35 percent increase in PBT (profit before tax) is likely to occur at the end of this year," he said, nor in years immediately following. "But we are looking for profit increases," he added.
Shares in the company gained five pence to 582.5 pence by 0940 GMT.
Anglian Water, which reported last week, saw half year profits rise 5.5 percent and raised its dividend 14.6 percent.
Thames Water, which kicked off the flow of interim results in the sector on October 29, turned in pretax profits before exceptionals up 15 percent and raised its dividend 22 percent.
South West Water has also committed to pay out a rebate of 15 pounds each to customers after trade secretary Ian Lang blocked the bids, which were awaiting approval before being priced.
Hill said the company's strategy now was to "focus on the core business...and develop very carefully the strategy of the non-regulated businesses."
South West Water has interests in waste management, environmental instrumentation and construction services, which contributed 6.6 million pounds to profits in the first half.
Hill said recent tax changes affecting some share buy backs would not alter the company's strategy of only using its mandate if it were in the interests of shareholders.
South West Water said a complicated financing deal which involves standby letters of credit which are counter-indemnified by cash deposits had contributed 5.7 million pounds to first half profits.
The facility should boost annual profits by nine million pounds in each of the next three years, the company added.
It said capital expenditure was 61.6 million pounds in the first half of the year and "a further substantial uplift is planned for the second half."
Water leakage, an issue which has triggered severe criticism of water companies from politicians and lobby groups, has been cut to 21 percent from 28 percent in 1992, the company said.
Its target of only 15 percent of water leaking from infrastructure by 1999 should be reached, it added.
The company's non-executive chairman Keith Court steps down in February and a replacement is being sought after non-executive deputy chairman Alan Fletcher bowed out.
($1=.6054 Pound)
Shanghai's real estate market is showing signs of recovery thanks to growing numbers of individual home-buyers and policy support from the city government, analysts and officials said on Thursday.
Increasing numbers of people are buying their own homes in the city as a result of lower interest rates, a state-run house-buying fund and the inability of many state firms to provide homes for their employees, they said.
People from other parts of China are also showing a growing interest in buying apartments in Shanghai, partly due to new rules that allow home purchasers from elsewhere to obtain residency permits in the city.
In the first nine months of 1996, private citizens bought 1.21 million square metres of commercial housing in Shanghai, or 55 percent of the city's housing space sold in the period, the city's Business News said on Wednesday.
"Two years ago, all our buyers were enterprises," said a salesman from a Shanghai real estate company. "But this year nearly half the houses we sold were bought by individuals."
A key element in this growth is a public housing loan fund set up by the city government in 1992, into which most employers and employees each pay five percent of an employee's salary.
"More people have bought and plan to buy houses with the help of these funds due to lower interest rates on loans after two cuts in bank interest rates this year," said an official of the Construction Bank of China, which administers the fund.
"In the first half of this year, we lent about 500 million yuan ($60.24 million) from the fund and expect to lend 1.2 billion for the whole year," he said.
"Between 1992 and 1994, individuals borrowed a total of only 220 million yuan from the fund and in 1995 the figure reached 440 million yuan," he added.
To encourage more individuals to buy, the city government in September cut the tax on house purchases by half and in August raised the rents on state-owned apartments by 50 percent, a Shanghai Bureau of Real Estate Administration official said.
"These measures, including allowing non-Shanghai people the right to obtain a residence permit by buying property, show the determination of the local government to help real estate become a key industry in the city," she said.
In August, Shanghai started giving residency permits to out-of-city people if they bought an apartment worth more than 400,000 yuan in the Pudong New Area, and have since extended the offer to all districts of Shanghai.
Pudong is on the east side of the Huangpu River that runs through the city. Puxi, the main area of the city, is on the west side.
Pudong has so far sold 327 apartments worth 86.2 million yuan to people from outside of the city, an official of the Pudong Real Estate Exchange said.
"Sales of property in Puxi, despite higher prices, are hotter than in Pudong which is still seen as less convenient in terms of traffic," said an official of the Shanghai Real Estate Trading Centre said.
"Buyers from outside the city, mainly successful business people and enterprises, regard Shanghai as the best place in China to do business," he said.
Shanghai's economy continues to power ahead of the rest of China, with 12.8 percent growth in the first 10 months of 1996, official figures show.
China's GDP growth this year has been officially forecast at around 9.6-9.7 percent, compared to 10.5 percent last year.
Shanghai real estate prices have changed little in the first nine months of 1996 despite the increased sales due to a parallel growth in supply.
The average price of an apartment in Shanghai is now 4,020 yuan ($484.30) per square metre and office space 6,880 yuan ($828.90) per square metre, the Business News newspaper said.
"No one doubts that prices of property in the city will rise in the coming years," an analyst said.
($1=8.3 yuan)
When outgoing Chief Justice Sir Ti Liang Yang joined the contest to become Hong Kong's first local leader, he opened up a competition which had been seen as a clash of business titans.
Yang, 67, resigned in September as Chief Justice in a bid to become Hong Kong's Chief Executive and step into Governor Chris Patten's shoes when the British depart at midnight next June 30.
A prim, avuncular figure, he dropped his knighthood title "Sir" in October, choosing to be addressed as "Mister".
He was knighted in 1988, the year he became the first Chinese to head the judiciary under British rule.
The former judge's nearest rival is regarded as shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa who, until Yang joined the fray, had faced a rival businessman, Peter Woo. The latest public popularity poll gave Yang 42.6 percent, well ahead of Tung's 32.9 percent.
Woo, rated third, and former appeals court judge Simon Li, rated fourth, are regarded as unlikely winners in the eyes of the Hong Kong public, who see the two laggards more as spoilers than odds-on favourites for the leadership mantle.
However, it is not the public who will be casting the votes when the winner emerges on December 11, but the 400 members of a China-controlled Selection Committee.
Trying to prove he has the common touch, Yang made a show recently of moving out of his palatial official residence on Hong Kong's Peak, along with his chauffeur-driven Jaguar, and moved into a rented apartment.
He then went on a demonstrative jaunt around the territory on public subways and ferries. But days later when he went to tour slums, he arrived in a chauffeur-driven Mercedes.
"I never imagined they were so poor," he said after visiting a "cage home", a small room with rented caged-in bedspace that can be home to a dozen people.
Yang stresses his "neutral" background. "I have no business affiliation. I have no direct official connection with the civil service," he said.
"To that extent, I am very neutral and therefore I think I shall be able to adopt an independent view on matters and judge matters on their merits," Yang said.
Born in a privileged family and remembered by his former teachers in Shanghai as a thoughtful, intelligent student, Yang and his family moved to Hong Kong after the 1949 communist takeover on the mainland.
The soft-spoken, bespectacled Yang has promised a "moderately conservative" style of rule, without drastic changes.
"If I were to become Chief Executive, I'm at the head of a moderate, relatively conservative government," Yang said.
"I don't want to see more great challenges or great reforms over the initial couple of years after 1997," he said.
He apparently had in mind the political landscape before Patten arrived and spearheaded democratic reforms to the approval of many in Hong Kong but to China's utter fury.
Yang, a self-declared Chinese patriot, provoked a storm late last year when his misgivings about the territory's much-coveted Bill of Rights, spoken in private conversation to a senior Chinese official, were leaked to the media.
It pushed him into the limelight and attracted accusations of toadying to Beijing. Some pressure groups called for him to resign, which he promptly rejected.
Yang, who once described himself as a "bridge between the East and the West", appears to have ridden that storm, as the popularity polls indicate.
China's Supreme Court announced on Thursday that a court has rejected the appeal of a son of one of the country's political elite, upholding a suspended death sentence for bribery.
The appellate court showed leniency because Zhou Beifang, 43, former chairman of Hong Kong-listed affiliates of the giant state-owned Capital Iron and Steel Corp (Shougang), showed remorse, the Xinhua news agency said, quoting the Supreme Court.
Chinese courts frequently impose the death penalty in corruption cases but as Zhou's death sentence was suspended for two years it could be commuted to life imprisonment by the time it was due to be carried out, as is often the case in China.
Zhou is one of China's so-called "princelings", the popular sobriquet applied to the children of the ruling party elite, who enjoy wide influence.
The Zhou family has close ties to the family of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
The appellate court also showed leniency because Zhou voluntarily returned ill-gotten wealth during the investigation even before prosecutors obtained evidence against him, Xinhua said.
Zhou was convicted of accepting bribes totalling 9.28 million Hong Kong dollars ($1.2 million) between June 1993 and April 1994, Xinhua said. It gave no details of who paid Zhou the bribes or why.
He was also found guilty of paying 1.2 million yuan ($144,600) in bribes to three people, including two former officials of the Beijing city government, so that his wife and daughter could move to the British colony, it said.
Xinhua did not say when Zhou appealed, when he was first convicted or why the Beijing Higher People's Court rejected his appeal.
Court officials reached by telephone declined to comment.
Zhou's conviction was part of a highly-publicised anti-graft campaign launched by China last year.
The drive led to the suicide of a Beijing vice-mayor in April 1995 and the fall of his mentor, former Beijing Communist Party boss Chen Xitong.
Zhou's father, Zhou Guanwu, 78, resigned as chairman and Communist Party secretary of Shougang in February 1995, citing old age following Zhou Beifang's detention.
Shougang has been restructured since Zhou Guanwu's downfall.
The appellate court also rejected the appeal of co-defendant Chen Jian, 39, a former senior official of the Beijing city government, and upheld his 15-year prison sentence for accepting bribes from Zhou, Xinhua said.
Another former official of the Beijing city government, Li Min, did not appeal against his sentence of life imprisonment also for accepting bribes from Zhou, the agency said.
The appeal of a fourth defendant who was sentenced to 16 years was rejected while a fifth defendant who was given five years in prison did not appeal, it said.
Corruption was virtually eliminated in the years after the communists came to power in 1949, but has staged a comeback along with economic reforms in the past 17 years.
In an exercise dubbed by China as a "democratic election with Hong Kong characteristics", this bustling territory goes to the polls on Friday. But only 400 citizens out of 6.3 million people in the colony will be voting.
A 400-member Selection Committee formed under Beijing's tight rein will be inaugurated in Hong Kong with a month-long mission to elect the first post-colonial leader and the 60 members of a replacement legislature.
The committee, to be anointed by Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen on his first official trip to the colony, will set the tone of the government to rule Hong Kong after Britain hands its Asian pearl back to China at midnight next June 30.
Hong Kong, one of Asia's economic wonders, is to become a Special Administrative Region of communist-ruled China. Beijing has pledged to maintain the territory's thriving capitalist system intact for 50 more years under the terms of China's "one country two systems" reunification policy.
Pro-democracy legislators attacked the leadership candidates in a debate on Wednesday for failing to address issues of human rights and democracy and called for a real general election.
Trade unionist Lee Cheuk-yan told Hong Kong's existing legislature that a leading contender, shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, was dangerous.
"Mr Tung is the most conservative among them, and he is the most dangerous as he calls on Hong Kong people to be willing to be obedient citizens," Lee said.
But a motion critical of the leadership selection was defeated by the pro-Beijing camp. Several democrats were absent on a lobbying mission to London.
"Democratisation is not like instant noodles... It took hundreds of years for Western countries to develop their present democratic systems," pro-Beijing legislator Ip Kwok-him said.
The sovereignty transition has been frought with disputes between China and Britain, between colonial governor Chris Patten and Chinese envoys, and between Hong Kong's burgeoning democracy movement and a pro-Beijing political camp.
They have sparred over the future of Hong Kong's human rights, democracy and basic freedoms, over whether or not the commercial "level playing field" will continue, and over the survival of Hong Kong's autonomy and the rule of law.
But now, 229 days before the sun finally sets on Britain's empire in Asia, attention is shifting to who will be running the show for China after Patten sails away.
In the first round of the process on Friday, the Selection Committee members will propose candidates for the chief executive who will step into Patten's shoes next year.
To enter the final run-off for the job, a candidate must be nominated by at least 50 members of the committee on Friday. The committee meets again on December 11 to pick the winner.
The leading candidates are all acceptable to China, sources close to the committee say.
In the forefront of the leadership battle are Tung and former chief judge Ti Liang Yang. An opinion poll gave Yang a 10 percentage point lead over Tung in public popularity this week.
Businessman Peter Woo and former appeals judge Simon Li came a remote third and fourth, and four other little known candidates scored less than one percent in the public's ratings.
However, it is not the public who vote, but the committee, and inside that body the real lobbying campaign is unfolding.
"We have a process which is laid down and I think it's clear the polls don't determine the winner," said Woo.
The committee was formed in Beijing two weeks ago and is dominated by pro-Beijing political and business groups.
Guinness Flight Asia said on Thursday that the selection of Hong Kong's new chief executive next month could give further support to the territory's soaring Hang Seng Index, which it expects to rise to 14,000 points soon.
"Once the chief executive is chosen, the direction of economic policy after the handover will be clearer," the fund manager said in an Asian quarterly outlook.
"Since it is clearly in China's interest that the handover should proceed smoothly, China will seek to ensure that it does nothing to adversely affect sentiment. Investors are increasingly coming to regard the handover as a positive rather than a negative."
The British territory returns to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997. The chief executive, who will govern Hong Kong as a special administrative region of China following the transition, will be announced on December 11.
Guinness Flight is maintaining a heavily overweight position on the Hong Kong stock market, and investment director Nerissa Lee said she holds a three-month target of 14,000 points for the Hang Seng Index.
"Hong Kong has done very well and we're still very bullish," she said. "I think it will continue to do well for some time because money will flow into Hong Kong as the preferred market (in Asia) and will stay here for some time."
Lee said Hong Kong will benefit from the credit easing in China, which will offset any interest rate hike in the United States this year or next, with additional support from subdued inflation and a strong property market.
Guinness Flight is also overweight in China, where it expects company profits to recover strongly as the effects of the austerity programme ease.
"It's time to take a look at China," Lee said. "We are at the start of a cyclical uptrend."
She forecasts Chinese economic growth of 9.8 percent this year, rising to 10.2 percent next year, in a context of a carefully controlled credit easing that will be channelled into selective sectors and industries.
While exports are expected to recover from this year's weakness, China's economy will also benefit from an increase in investment and consumption, she said.
"The last cycle of growth was led by exports but in this cycle we believe it will be very much more broadly based," Lee said, who favours power, automobiles and consumer products as China's most promising sectors in the short term.
Huaneng International Power Company is her top power stock, thanks to an aggressive capacity expansion, while Qingling Motors Co Ltd leads the automobile pack.
Qingling stock is trading in single digit multiples, despite a 20-percent share of China's expanding car market that is expected to rise to 30 percent next year.
Earnings at Guangnan Ltd, an integrated food distributor poised to exploit a boom in Chinese supermarket consumption, could rise 30 percent each year for the next three years, Lee said.
Goldlion Holdings Ltd remains Guinness Flight's favoured retail stock, reporting an annual net profit growth of more than 40 percent each year for the past seven years.
"This is an excellent track record and proof of the quality of management at the company," Lee said.
Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd could face a multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over the ownership of its spectacular Busang gold deposit in Indonesia.
The young Calgary-based company said Friday that one of its Indonesian partners, PT Krueng Gasui, threatened it and 19 others with legal action in Canadian courts, claiming damages of US$1.9 billion.
"I find it curious that PT Krueng Gasui has chosen to threaten a lawsuit in Canada relating to matters that allegedly occurred in Indonesia," Bre-X chief executive David Walsh said in a statement. "However, we will sit down with them and listen to what they have to say."
Krueng Gasui owns an undisputed 10 percent of one section of the Busang discovery. It claims it owns up to 40 percent of the entire deposit, but Bre-X says the Indonesian company does not have the documentation to back up its claims.
Bre-X, which closed down C$1 at 20.90 in heavy trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, said Friday it had received a letter from its Indonesian partner demanding a meeting before November 22 to resolve the dispute. If Bre-X refuses or does not make an attempt to settle the argument, Krueng Gasui will sue, the letter said.
Bre-X said it has asked its lawyers to arrange a meeting.
"In my opinion, this (threat of a lawsuit) appears to be a last minute act of desperation," said gold analyst Chad Williams of Research Capital Corp.
"My question is, why have they waited so long? And why did they choose to do this in Canada?"
The dispute between Bre-X and Krueng Gasui, who is backed by Australia's Golden Valley Mines NL, became public at the beginning of October.
The argument prompted the Indonesian government to delay issuing vital contracts of work until the two parties worked out their difficulties. Without the contracts, Bre-X cannot proceed with work on Busang and has had to stall its search for a major gold producer to operate or buy the discovery, analysts say.
"The key is how the Indonesian government will react" to the lawsuit, said Williams.
The threat of a lawsuit gives Bre-X a strong incentive to settle with Krueng Gasui and Indonesian businessman Jusuf Merukh, who controls Krueng Gasui, said gold analyst Catherine Gignac of Deacon Capital.
While most analysts said it was too early to tell whether the Indonesian case would stand up in Canadian court, they said the threat of a lawsuit will definitely force Bre-X to treat the claims more seriously.
"It reinforces the uncertainty with respect to Bre-X," said gold analyst John Ing of Maison Placements. "My sense is this thing is not going away. This is more of a manoeuvring than an actual threat, but it does not look like this will end any time soon."
Krueng Gasui said in its letter that it will also sue the other Indonesian partners of Bre-X, some Bre-X officers and Canada's Minorca Resources Inc., which has a small stake in the discovery.
Minorca president Roland Horst said his company has no reason to be involved.
Exploration at Busang has outlined 47 million ounces of gold so far, and some analysts predict there could be up to 100 million ounces.
Intel Corp shares slid another four points on Friday, continuing a three-day retreat triggered by smaller rival Advanced Micro Devices Inc's statement that its turnaround plan is on track.
But analysts and money managers were unruffled by what they said was profit-taking in Intel and a temporary shift among some momentum investors to AMD and away from Intel.
Intel stock has lost about six percent of its value since Wednesday, when Advanced Micro said it was sampling its Pentium-like K6 chip, which its expect to ship in early 1997.  
Intel closed at 115-7/8, down 4, on volume of 15 million shares, marking it as the most active Nasdaq stock. Intel, a key component in the Nasdaq Composite index, has acted as a drag on the market even as the NYSE has hit new record highs.
The Nasdaq Composite Index closed at 1261.81, off 8.55.
Edwin Turney, a Silicon Valley-based technology money manager who runs the Panagea fund, agreed, saying: "You have a lot of profit-taking and then you have got the momentum players who have had a hell of a run in the last 6 months.
"So now they are looking at the secondary players," Turney said, referring specifically to Advanced Micro.  
"AMD has been a catalyst for other people to take profit," agreed Merrill Lynch semiconductor analyst Thomas Kurlak.
"There is really nothing specifically to explain (Intel's recent decline). It's just another wiggle in the chart."
Soundview President James Townsend agreed AMD's announcement may have provided an excuse for some investors to temporarily shift out of Intel.
"With a stock that has been this incredibly successful, it may be enough to take some profits off the table," Townsend said. He was referring to Intel's impressive 50 point rise to new record levels since mid-summer.  
AMD stock has languished in recent years after repeated failures to match Intel's Pentium technology. However, since Wednesday, the stock has gained more than 20 percent. It closed at 25-1/8, up 1/2 point on the day on Friday.
Analysts said AMD's new K6 chips are not compatible with Intel latest Pentium Pro chips, but the chip could do a healthy business as a simple Pentium alternative.
"There's clearly room enough for both companies to do well," said C.B. Lee, an analyst at Hancock Institutional Partners, who follows both Intel and AMD.  
"Clearly, AMD has had some impact in the minds of some investors," Lee said of Intel's declines in recent days, but added: "In my mind AMD is not a threat."
Analysts expect Intel to produce 20 million Pentium microprocessors in the current quarter, while AMD will build only a tiny fraction of that number -- and less powerful processers at that.
Like most chip sector securities analysts, Kurlak maintains a strong buy on Intel and a neutral rating on AMD.
Lee said he also remains neutral on AMD, "but its back in my good graces" with its plans to introduce the K6 chip.
In the last week, Prudential Securities analyst Mark Edelstone was alone among Wall Street analysts in upgrading AMD to a buy from a hold in response to the K6 announcement.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
CMS Energy Co should have no trouble meeting or exceeding the $2.40 to $2.45 a share earnings estimates that analysts forecast for all of 1996, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William McCormick said Friday.
"We feel very comfortable we'll be at or above that range," he said in a telephone interview from the utility's Dearborn, Mich. headquarters. CMS, the parent company for Consumers Power Co, Michigan's largest utility, earned $2.27 a share on total revenues of $3.9 billion in 1995.  
Earlier Friday, CMS announced the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved a settlement that removes the final rate uncertainty of its Midland Cogeneration Venture L.P., ending a 10-year regulatory saga involving the embattled plant.
The settlement allows Consumers Power to include the cost of buying the final 325 megawatts of power from the plant in its customer rates. Previously, CMS was granted permission to include in rates the cost of buying 915 megawatts of the plant's total 1240 megawatts of power.  
"The last significant uncertainty related to the whole Midland situation was the recovery of the remaining 325 megawatts," said McCormick, who added he has been dealing with the Midland project since he became CEO of CMS 11 years ago.
McCormick said the settlement removes the possibility of future earnings write-downs related to the project. CMS recorded an after-tax charge of $343 million in the fourth quarter of 1992 from an earlier settlement of Midland Cogeneration issues.  
CMS' stock was up $1 to $32-3/8. Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 206,700, indicating trading for Friday would be more than 300,000 shares, heavier than normal, said McCormick.
CMS' construction of the facility as a nuclear power plant was abandoned in the mid-1980s. CMS finished its conversion to a gas-powered energy plant in 1990.
Midland Cogeneration, the largest cogeneration project in North and South America, is a partnership of CMS; Dow Chemical Co, Coastal Corp, Asea Brown Boveri Inc and Fluor Corp.
Approval of the settlement prompted Standard &amp; Poor's to revise its outlook on Consumers Power and CMS to positive from stable, and re-affirm its ratings on the companies.
McCormick said he believes CMS will be meeting with the debt rating agency to discuss a possible upgrade of its ratings.
Chicago Board of Trade Chairman Patrick Arbor said Thursday he expects electronic technology to replace open outcry trading in 20 to 25 years.
"I would think that in 20 to 25 years, there will be some kind of technology that will replace the traditional, open outcry market," Arbor said in answer to a student's question after a speech at the University of Chicago.
In the past, the CBOT has said it views electronic trading as a supplement to open outcry pit trading, which it has said provides maximum integrity and liquidity at minimum cost.
A CBOT press release distributed after Arbor's speech quoted him saying that "electronic trading ... supplements open outcry during daytime hours and the evening session."
In answer to the student's question, Arbor remarked that his 33-year-old son, a CBOT member allowed to trade in the pits, has "got about 20 years left" in his trading career.
Arbor added, "Technology is the wave of the future. There's no question about it."
Electronic trading remains a small part of the total volume of trading done on the CBOT, but is growing rapidly.
Total trading volume on the exchange in 1995 was more than 210 million contracts and Arbor predicted record-setting volume in 1996. Electronic trading increased to an average daily volume of 7,397 contracts in the first quarter of 1996 from just 560 contracts in 1992, when it commenced.
"The growth of electronic trading is here. It's going to continue," Arbor said.
He said he expects the CBOT -- the world's largest futures exchange -- soon to move away from paper orders. He said, "My prediction would be that in three to five years, the Board of Trade floor ... will be completely paperless and pretty much automated as far as the entering and exiting of orders."
Shares in British utility Northern Electric rose on Friday after a newspaper reported that U.S. group CalEnergy was set to raise its 630 pence a share takeover offer.
The report in the London Evening Standard said CalEnergy, through CE Electric in which it has a 70 percent stake, might be willing to increase its 650 million pound ($1.08 billion) bid to 660 pence to win a recommendation from the regional power distribution company (Rec).
Neither side would make any offical comment, however, and market sources were sceptical that any increased bid was in the offing.
Despite market scepticism, Northern shares rose to an intraday high of 618 pence before easing back to close up seven pence at 608.
Other stocks in the sector also gained, bouyed by a resurgence in bid activity which saw East Midlands succumb to an agreed 1.3 billion pounds bid at 670 pence per share from U.S.-based Dominion Resources on Wednesday.
Seven of Britain's original 12 regional power firms have been swallowed up in under two years. Among the remaining five, Southern Electric jumped 30p to 708p, while London Electric added 21-1/2p to 627p.
CalEnergy, which has already snapped up more than 29 percent of Northern, has consistently said its 630 pence offer is a full and fair price.
But Northern has argued the offer undervalues the company and claimed a level of 700 pence was discussed in talks ahead of the bid launched on October 28, an assertion which CalEnergy has denied.
Analysts said the U.S. company might be in no rush to improve its offer as it has already attracted nearly 30 percent of Northern shareholders and the shares are languishing below this level.
Hanging over both bids are concerns they may be referred to British competition authorities as political pressure mounts on the Conservative government, which lags the opposition Labour Party in the polls ahead of a general election due by next May.
Previous similar bids have been approved, but the market is worried that heavy criticism of high shareholder payouts, hefty executive pay packets and high takeover prices might weigh the scales against approval this time.
In addition, approval of both bids would leave just three independent power firms in the sector and this may not be enough for industry regulator Offer to make comparisons, analysts said. Those worries have kept share prices of both bid targets largely below offer levels, with East Midlands closing down 4-1/2p at 623p.
It is not clear whether Trade Secretary Ian Lang, who will decide whether to refer the bids, would be swayed by a recommended offer.
In addition, CalEnergy might want to wait for Northern's defence document, expected by next Tuesday, and interim results due by the end of the month instead of the previously scheduled December 5 announcement.
Northern, which spent 560 million pounds last year on a package of shareholder benefits to successefully fend off Trafalgar House, now a unit of Hanson, is expected to use sparkling interim results to pitch for a higher offer.
Analysts said CalEnergy's bid compares favourably with that of Dominion on a cashflow basis and shows a 27.5 percent premium to share prices ahead of the bid, compared with a 25 percent level for Dominion's offer.
But on a price to earnings basis, CalEnergy's offer comes in slightly lower than that for East Midlands, they added. ($1=.6005 Pound)
The story of Sea Launch sounds like the daring fiction of a Bond movie -- with corporate giants from Russia, the U.S., Norway and Ukraine joining forces to build the ultimate in space technology, firing satellite rockets into space from the Pacific Ocean.
The cost is 350 million pounds ($583.2 million), funded by a consortium of four firms, joining the East and West in a deal which claims it can undercut the cost of land-based launchers including the French-led Ariane, recently embarrassed by a rocket explosion, and Nasa of the U.S..
The lead Sea Launch investor is Boeing Commercial Space Co of the U.S., holding 40 percent, with  RSC-Energia of Russia taking a 25 percent slice, Norway's Kvaerner with 20 percent and  NPO-Yuzhnoye of the Ukraine holding 15 percent.
At a sneak preview in Norway on Thursday, Svein Johnsen, Sea Launch project manager from Kvaerner joked with Russian reporters that countries which had once built technology with the conflict in mind, were now united in their quest for profit.
"In the name of detente," he said.
Norway's Kvaerner is the prime contractor, building the mobile sea-borne rocket launch platform and the command ship.
It rescued the Ocean Odyssey oil rig which exploded in a fireball just after the 1988 Piper Alpha rig disaster.
Odyssey has since been stripped and reconstructed to become the floating rocket launcher which will operate under remote control from a specially built command ship.
The platform is nearing completion at Stavanger in Norway, with the command ship under construction and ready for launch next month at Govan in Scotland.
The first rocket launch will happen in June 1998. The rig and command ship will travel from the base in Long Island, California and travel to a site in the Pacific Ocean for blast off.
Satellites and rockets will be assembled on the ship for transfer to the platform which will be evacuated before lift-off.
The command ship will press the control button for firing the rocket at a distance of two or three miles. The 10,600 ton ship has the added protection of blast-proof safety glass at a cost of 2,000 pounds a pane.
The Russians will provide the Zenit rockets, chosen because they can be assembled horizontally on board the command ship.
Boeing will provide project management, marketing services and run the operation for lift-off.
Asked about the risk of explosion Johnsen says "The risk of explosion is very much related to this business. But we think that risk is very low. There are in-built safety features and it's a very sound operation from an insurance point of view."
Ignition to release of the rocket takes 4.6 seconds, with emissions from the rocket on take-off channelled sideways.
"If the emissions didn't go sideways, the pressure could shift the platform," he said, which weighs 23,000 tons.
Confidence in the system, a world-first, has been demonstrated by a rash of early contracts.
Hughes Space and Communications International Inc of Los Angeles, California has 10 launches signed. Space Systems/Lorel, also from California has five booked.
The groups involved have refused to comment on how much they will charge per launch or on potential profits, with Kvaerner's Johnson only stating that its slice will be "A good return on our investment."
It will be able to fire six to eight rockets a year. The idea was originally conceived by Boeing which had intended to fire satellites from a supertanker.
But the danger involved made the platform idea more appealing, allowing evacuation before blast off. ($ = 0.600 British Pounds)
The 350 million stg Sea Launch satellite project -- backed by firms from the U.S., Russia, Norway and Ukraine -- will fire its first satellite from a sea platform in June 1998, project contractor Kvaerner told reporters on Thursday.
Kavaerner, which also has a 20 percent stake in the project, is overseeing the construction of the launch platform and control ship, at Stavanger, Norway and Goven, Scotland.  
Boeing Commercial Space Co of the United States, Russia's RSC-Energia and the Ukraine's NPO-Yuzhnoye are also involved in the project.
As well as being a shareholder, Kavaerner is receiving a 250 million stg fee to build the ship and platform launcher.
In Stavanger, Sea Launch project manager Svein Johnsen told Reuters that launch prices would be "significantly cheaper" than those charged by land-based sites, but refused to be drawn further.
Hughes Space &amp; Communication International Inc has a contract for 10 launches and Space Systems/Lorel for five.
Sea Launch will use a converted oil rig called Odyssey to fire Russian-made Zenits rockets from a position in the Pacific.
The rockets will be transported and assembled on the control ship. The 640 feet ship, still to be named, will have blast proof safety glass. It weighs 10,600 tons and can carry 250 crew. The platform weighs 23,000 tons, is 430 feet long and has room for 20 crew members.
Volkswagen AG Czech unit, Skoda Auto a.s., on Friday launched sales of its new sedan, the Octavia, hoping to kill off jokes about Communist-era quality, and pull the company into profit.
Officials said the new model, built on a common VW platform designed for the 1998 Audi A3 and upgraded Golf, would expand Skoda's market penetration by putting the company's first post-Communist mid-sized car in showrooms worldwide.
"Our strategic markets are in central and eastern Europe, western Europe, and we are present in some Asian markets. We expect to sell Octavias successfully in all of our 66 markets," marketing director Frank Farsky told Reuters.
The new sedan received a hero's welcome at showrooms around the capital Prague on Friday as crowds gathered to watch dealers mount the Octavia on viewing pedestals.
Exports of the front-grilled Octavia -- a major step away from the boxy sub-compacts which made the Communist-era Skoda the butt of automotive jokes worldwide -- to Europe and beyond later this year or in the first quarter next year.
The car will be available on the domestic market with a choice of three petrol and two diesel engines, with the top-of-the-line SLX automatic model priced at 497,900 crowns, and a base model priced at 335,700 crowns.
"In the Czech market its more or less toward a luxury- class car by the nature the purchasing power and the nature of the car market itself," Farsky said.
"In western Europe it is a medium sized car that will belong to the middle class market, and in Asian markets I think it will be toward the luxury class," he added.
Skoda will make 64,000 Octavias in 1997 at its new purpose-built plant in Mlada Boleslav north of Prague, and raise production to 90,000 in 1998.
Skoda Chairman Ludvik Kalma said earlier this year he expected 20,000 Octavias to be sold annually on the home market, with the rest exported to Europe and points East.
"I think customers who would be looking for a used car would look at a Skoda Octavia, I think that people who own a smaller car would look at Octavia," Farsky said.
The company lost 1.621 billion crowns last year due to heavy investments into the new factory, but Kalma said the firm should come close to breaking even this year.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech President Vaclav Havel, nursing a heavy cold, voted in Senate elections on Friday and called on fellow citizens to turn out despite widespread apathy or even hostility towards the newly created upper house.
Voting in a Prague suburb, Havel showed his identity card to election officials before patiently queueing up with pensioners to cast his ballot in a primary school.
The vote is the first electoral test for right-wing Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus since he lost his lower house majority in June.
Opinion polls suggest many Czechs will not bother to turn out for the elections, which have a second round runoff on November 22 and 23, because they either do not understand what the Senate will do or feel it is a waste of time.
The Senate was written into the new constitution of the Czech Republic which came into force in 1993 after the breakup of Czechoslovakia. But only now is the Senate to be elected after much political footdragging.
Havel, who spent almost five years in communist jails in the fight to restore Czech democracy, called on citizens to vote even it means turning out two weekends in a row.
"At first glance it may seem like bothering people that they have to vote twice in a row," he said in a voice made hoarse by his illness.
But he pointed out that the two-round system, in which the top two candidates from the first round meet in a runoff if neither wins more than half the vote, was common in Europe.
"It has to be like that and I believe that anyone who is not indifferent to the democratic development of our country will turn out for the second round as well," he said.
Both rounds span a Friday and Saturday, with voting ending at 2 p.m. (1300 GMT).
Havel has appealed for a high turnout before previous elections. Until now Czechs, who regained their pre-war democracy after the 1989 fall of communism, have heeded him.
Turnout was 76.4 percent in voting for the lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, last June. But it is expected to be much lower for the Senate, which has few powers compared with the Chamber of Deputies where all government and opposition leaders sit.
A survey by the IVVM agency showed that only 57 percent planned to vote in the first round and 52 in the runoffs. Another IVVM poll showed 53 percent of those questioned doubted the need for the Senate at all.
Politicians have also been lukewarm. However, the results may give clues on the political way ahead, depending on how well Civic Democratic Party (ODS) headed by Klaus and its two junior coalition partners do.
If the coalition performs well, Klaus may be tempted to provoke early lower house elections in an attempt to regain the majority lost in a surge in support for the opposition Social Democrats.
But if the Social Democrats win the Senate race, Klaus could be forced to resign.
Most opinion polls suggest a tight race. But the last survey suggested the ODS was pulling ahead after an outbreak of squabbling in Social Democrat ranks.
The Social Democrats may also have suffered from a row this week over allegations by their chairman Milos Zeman that the state intelligence agency BIS had spied on him.
Asked about the row, Havel told reporters: "I don't think that the affair, as you call it, will influence in any significant way the outcome of the elections."
Czech power producer CEZ a.s. on Friday said its nine month net profit hit 8.4 billion crowns ($312.6 million), up from 7.4 billion for the same period last year, according to international accounting standards, after household electricity demand surged.
CEZ's Director of Planning and Analysis section Petr Voboril told a news conference that higher depreciation write-offs due to the opening of new installations cut the company's tax obligations, and boosting its bottom line.
The company's gross profit for the period remained flat at 13.1 billion.
Czech accounting put the firm's profit for the first nine months at 7.04 billion, up from 6.7 billion last year.
CEZ said the result did not change the firm's profit forecast under Czech standards for the whole year, which is 8.1 billion crowns, equal to last year's.
A financial statement showed CEZ wrote off 4.1 billion in the first nine months compared with 3.4 billion in the same period of 1995, and paid 4.7 billion in income tax after 5.7 billion last year.
"Above all, lowering of tax obligations in connection with depriciation policy have influenced this (profit) increase," Voboril said.
He said that overall demand for electricity rose by 5.5 percent in the period, and is expected to reach a record high of 55.3 terrawatthours, 6.1 percent up year-on-year, for the whole 1996.
Household consumption drove the increase, rising 10.5 percent, while large clients demanded almost two percent more power over the same period of the last year.
Voboril said that a recent ruling by the Finance Minstry on maximum prices CEZ can charge regional power distributors did not effect results thanks to the sales increase.
The ministry decided that the maximum average price CEZ can charge for supplies this year is 1,035 crowns per megawatthour, up two crowns from the last year but below the firm's 1,040 crown expectation included in business plan.
Voboril said that short-term indebtedness of CEZ increased as well as financial expenditures due to unpaid debts from some of the eight regional distributors, which totalled 3.2 billion crowns as of September 30.
CEZ and six of the country's eight regional grid operators had been locked in a price dispute with CEZ until the ministry ruling last month.
CEZ is also considering an international bond issue next year as it needs financing but has already flooded the domestic market with paper, Voboril said.
Local analysts welcomed the results but said they did not expect them to help CEZ's share price much as the Prague Stock Exchange is plagued by a lack of confidence.
"The CEZ results are slightly better than I expected. CEZ is fundamentally undervalued but genereal market sentiment is not very strong," said Petr Dousa of Zivnostenska Banka. "I don't expect the price to go up to 1,000 in the next few days."
CEZ shares closed up 14 crowns on the Prague Stock Exchange on Friday to close at 937. -- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
($1=26.87 Czech Crown)
Czech National Bank (CNB) Governor Josef Tosovsky said that despite objections from some cabinet officials, it was too early to write off the central bank's plan to create post-Communist Europe's largest bank.
Tosovsky said he expected the full cabinet to consider "in a few weeks" the CNB's plan which includes the proposed merger of the savings bank Ceska Sporitelna a.s. with the foreign trade bank  Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s. (CSOB).
"There are only some preliminary opinions of some official who saw our proposal. Because most of the members of the cabinet didn't see our proposal, so it's too early," he told Reuters Financial TV in an interview to be broadcast later.
"I don't know what will be the decision of the government."
The central bank has submitted a broad plan seeking to fully privatise state holdings in the "Big Four" largest banks, but Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus said last week the cabinet needed more concrete details.
The most controversial plan calls for Sporitelna and CSOB to merge to create a bank with over $20 billion in assets and then to privatise the state's stake in the newly-created bank several years later after the merger is analysed.
Klaus has reacted coolly to the merger plan, saying it was akin to fusing Prague's top two soccer teams Sparta and Slavia, something unthinkable for many Czechs.
The plan has also been criticised by a key Klaus adviser, Martin Kocourek, and by officials at both institutions who said they want to preserve the specific character of each bank.
But the central bank's plan, which Tosovsky said is from the point of view of a regulator to promote stability of the entire banking system, seeks to create a bank which would compete better against large western European institutions.
"We feel that it would be possible to find some closer ties between CSOB and (Sporitelna), and we see a merger could be made," Tosovsky said, but added that "it would require more professional analysis."
Tosovsky said that if the merger plan was not adopted then a strategic foreign partner "would be welcome in CSOB -- this means the fast privatisation with a foreign strategic partner, but this is only if the idea about the merger is not accepted."
A variety of Czech and Slovak state institutions, including the central banks, hold CSOB shares. Ceska Sporitelna has had some stakes privatised through the voucher-privatisation programme, but the state still holds a 45 percent stake.
The CNB and the Finance Ministry have both called for the fast privatisation of the state's roughly one-third stake in Investicni a Postovni Banka to a strategic foreign partner. Japan's Nomura and Dutch ING NV are widely seen as frontrunners seeking IPB shares.
Tosovsky said the roughly 49 percent stake in the largest commercial bank, Komercni Banka a.s. should be divided into smaller units and sold to a variety of investors, not a single foreign strategic partner.
"As concerns Komercni Banka, there is no rush as concerns the privatisation but no reason to delay as well," he said.
"(Komercni), in our opinion, doesn't need a foreign strategic partner, and there could be small stakes and more investors could be invited to enter into the this bank."
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Australian-based industrial group Pacific Dunlop Ltd painted on Friday a dour outlook of intense competition and low margins, and said it would look to cost cutting and acquisitions to help reignite its share price.
Faced with shareholder anger at the group's weak share price, chairman John Gough fended off suggestions at the group's annual meeting that Pacific Dunlop was vulnerable to a takeover and forecast a profit recovery in the year ending June 30, 1997.  
"We are forecasting an improvement in results for this financial year, although the first six months will be well below the comparative period of last year," Gough said.
Gough defended the board against persistent criticism of its aborted forays into the food and cardiac-implant businesses.
Pacific Dunlop still faces litigation related to its former pacemaker subsidiary, U.S.-based Telectronics Pacing Systems Inc, which was forced to halt production for 13 months until last June due to a pacemaker component defect.  
Telectronics was sold last month for A$170 million to medical equipment firm St Jude Medical Inc. Before the sale, Pacific Dunlop booked gross abnormal losses from Telectronics totalling A$340 million in its 1995/96 accounts.
"It was really developing quite visionary things that got us into trouble," Gough said as shareholders lined up at microphones to criticise the group's performance.
One pensioner told the meeting the group's share price had roughly halved since hitting a high of A$5.87 in March 1994, describing it as "not exactly a blue chip performance".
China launched the contest to pick Hong Kong's future leader on Friday, hailing the event as the birth of "real democracy" in the British-ruled territory which is set to revert to Beijing's control next year.
But pro-democracy protesters disagreed -- they stormed into the building where Hong Kong's rich and mighty had gathered to vote, and, waving imitation black coffins, they denounced the exercise as the death of freedom.
Only 400 of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people are participating in the voting, having joined a special Selection Committee set up under China's close supervision.
Shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa and his principal rival, former Chief Justice Ti Liang Yang both scored more than the minimum of 50 votes required to reach the next leg of the contest to select the first post-colonial Chief Executive.
Tung took a commanding lead with 206 votes. Also through to round two is businessman Peter Woo, but five contenders including former appeals court judge Simon Li fell out of the race.
The run-off will be on December 11.
The gathering of the Selection Committee, inaugurated by China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, who was visiting the territory for the first time, was marred by scuffles when pro-democracy activists clashed with police.
A dozen demonstrators scrambled into the plush Hong Kong Convention Centre in an unsuccessful bid to disrupt the historic meeting. Police chased protesters up six floors of escalators before they were rounded up and detained.
Outside, a police officer received a bloody nose and three more demonstrators were carted away in scuffles between about 40 activists and 100 police.
In his inauguration speech Qian declared the selection process as the dawn of genuine democracy in Hong Kong.
"For Hong Kong's people to elect their own chief executive, that is something unprecedented in Hong Kong's history," he said.
"For some 150 years Britain has appointed 20 or so Hong Kong governors, and when were the views of Hong Kong people ever consulted?" Qian asked the assembled caucus.
"The establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) is the start of real democracy in Hong Kong, and not the end of democracy in Hong Kong," he said.
Hong Kong reverts to China at midnight next June 30.
Tung, 59, Yang, 67, and Woo, 50, are now the only hopefuls left in the race, and Qian was at pains to stress that despite claims by critics that the winner had been chosen in advance by China's communist rulers, the result was not preordained.
The democracy activists brandished posters of jailed Chinese dissidents Wang Dan and Wei Jingsheng and banners condemning China's plan to replace Hong Kong's elected legislature.
"Free Wang Dan, release Wei Jingsheng, oppose the provisional legislature", they shouted through loudhailers.
The democracy lobby brands the leadership race undemocratic and has campaigned against the provisional legislature.
"The provisional legislature is a great step backwards for democracy," one protest banner said on Friday.
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind warned China on Thursday its plans for a provisional legislature risked creating "confusion and uncertainty" in Hong Kong.
"China would have to explain to Hong Kong and the world why they had chosen to replace a body for which more than a million Hong Kong people voted by one chosen by a handpicked electorate of only 400," he told a parliamentary debate in London.
Pro-democracy demonstrators stormed into a plush Hong Kong conference centre on Friday in an attempt to disrupt a historic meeting convened by China to choose Hong Kong's future leaders.
They were stopped by police before reaching the meeting, inaugurated earlier in the day by China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen.
Protesters had gathered before dawn outside the Hong Kong Convention Centre where the 400-member Selection Committee was due to start its month-long mission to select the territory's Chief Executive and 60 members of a replacement legislature.
As delegates were returning from lunch, about a dozen demonstrators plunged through a side door of the convention centre and were chased up escalators by police.
They managed to reach the sixth floor, one floor away from the meeting, before at least seven were seized by police as they unfurled banners and shouted slogans.
Eyewitnesses said that two prominent members of the Democratic Party, Andrew To and Chan Kwok-leung, and independent activist Wong Chung-ki, were among those detained in the building.
In a second attempt to storm the building, three screaming demonstrators were dragged away by police on the street outside.
Scuffles ensued and at least one policeman was slightly injured when up to 40 chanting protesters surged against crowd control barriers, waving models of black coffins above their heads to symbolise the death of democracy.
Some of the demonstrators had camped overnight outside the building where Britain will formally return its colony to China in 228 days' time.
They were surrounded by police at dawn and herded behind barriers across the road.
Hong Kong's pro-democracy lobby has attacked the selection process and refused to take part in the selection committee which they have branded as undemocratic.
They are adamantly opposed to China's plan to dissolve the elected legislature and replace it with an interim provisional chamber until new elections are held.
Waving banners and using loudhailers, demonstrators chanted "We want a directly elected legislature" and "We reject the reversal of democracy".
Some of them held up black boxes, saying "This is a coffin. It represents the death of democracy and freedom in Hong Kong."
Members of the Democratic Party had planned to pass a letter to Qian but were unable to get past police lines. An official eventually came out to accept the letter.
"We hope you will exchange views with Hong Kong people on the setting up of the provisional legislature and selection of the Chief Executive," the letter said.
The Selection Committee was holding a first round of voting on Friday to narrow down the list of candidates to step into the shoes of colonial governor Chris Patten when British rule ends at midnight on June 30 next year.
To qualify, candidates for the job of Chief Executive must be nominated by at least 50 members of the committee.
Two business magnates and two former judges are regarded as the front-runners in the race. The Selection Committee meets again on December 11 to pick the winner.
A Chinese court on Friday took 10 minutes to reject the appeal of dissident Wang Dan and uphold an 11-year prison sentence for subversion, his mother said.
The verdict came four days before the scheduled arrival of U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who diplomats say was expected to raise human rights issues in his meetings with Chinese leaders during his visit.
Angry family members staged a one-hour sit-down protest in front of the Beijing Higher People's Court after the court rejected Wang's appeal against his conviction, she said.
"It (the verdict) was all prepared in advance," Wang Lingyun told Reuters in a telephone interview.
"I'm very angry. It was very unfair," she said. "The (appeals) court just copied the verdict of the first trial."
The 27-year-old dissident was not allowed to speak at his appeal hearing as a judge read from a brief, prepared statement, the mother said.
Wang was convicted of plotting to subvert the government by publishing articles in foreign publications and receiving funds from hostile overseas organisations.
The mother said she would petition the appeals court but that it would be a formality and would not involve the court holding another trial.
Court officials, reached by telephone, declined comment. The tightly-controlled state media made no mention of Wang's conviction.
Police earlier kept reporters away from the court building, the family's home and nearby subway stations.
The dissident, wearing a red sweater and grey suit, appeared in low spirits and poor health, the mother said.
"(But) he was psychologically prepared. It came as no surprise. He does not have any illusions about them (the authorities)," she said.
The former student leader had already served four years in prison for his role in student demonstrations for democracy that were crushed by the army in 1989.
The U.S. secretary of state, scheduled to arrive on Tuesday, was likely to bring up human rights when he meets Chinese leaders.
Sino-U.S. relations have been strained over the last year by issues ranging from human rights to Taiwan to arms proliferation and trade.
Beijing has slammed Western criticism of its human rights record as interference in its internal affairs.
Former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher said in Beijing on Thursday that the world was dismayed by harsh sentences slapped on Wang and fellow dissident Wei Jingsheng, the father of China's modern democracy movement.
The jailing of Wang was the latest in a series of crushing blows to China's struggling democracy movement. Most dissidents have already been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or labour camps.
China has said Wang's trial last month by a lower court was open and fair but the New York-based Human Rights in China said no foreign reporters, diplomats or other international observers were allowed to attend.
Human Rights in China has denounced the trial as a "secret trial" on a trumped up charge. The lower court took less than four hours to convict and sentence Wang on October 30.
China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen was greeted by angry protesters on Friday when he arrived to open a historic meeting to choose Hong Kong's future leaders.
Police scuffled with demonstrators when they blocked access to the Convention Centre, where Britain will formally return its colony to China in 228 days' time.
Qian will preside over the 400-member Selection Committee, which began its month-long mission to select the Chief Executive and 60 members of a replacement legislature.
A group of about 30 police surrounded a handful of student activists and herded them towards barricades where other protesters were sequestered. Many had spent the night on a protest fast outside the building.
Hong Kong's pro-democracy lobby has attacked the process and refused to take part in the selection committee which they have branded as undemocratic.
They are adamantly opposed to China's plan to dissolve the elected legislature and replace it with an interim provisional chamber until new elections are staged.
One student was pushed to the ground before being hauled over the barricades into the cordoned-off area by other protesters. "I am very frightened," the university student said. "I don't know why they pushed me."
Waving banners and using loud hailers, about 40 demonstrators chanted "We want a directly elected legislature" and "We reject the deterioration of democracy".
Police flung themselves against the barricades to hold back surging demonstrators, some of whom held up a large black box.
"This is a coffin. It represents the death of democracy and freedom in Hong Kong," one demonstrator said.
Members of the Democratic Party had planned to pass a letter to Qian but were unable to get past police lines.
"We hope you would exchange views with Hong Kong people on the setting up of the Provisional legislature and selection of the Chief Executive," the letter to Qian said.
The Selection Committee is due to hold a first round of voting on Friday to narrow down the list of candidates to step into the shoes of colonial governor Chris Patten when British rule draws to a close at midnight on June 30 next year.
To enter the final run-off for the job, a candidate must be nominated by at least 50 members of the committee.
Two business magnates and two former judges are regarded as the frontrunners in the race.
The Selection Committee meets again on December 11 to pick the winner.
European record business executives on Friday sang the praises of China's crackdown on widespread copyright piracy, saying Beijing appeared sincere in its desire to build a legitimate music industry.
European companies were eager to establish cooperative ventures with local firms that would allow them to supply music to a vast listening audience currently largely supplied from illicit music production lines, the executives said.
"The Chinese market has enormous potential," EMI Europe President Rupert Perry told reporters in Beijing, adding that China was making progress in its crackdown on piracy.
Beijing vowed to clamp down on pirates and prise open its cultural markets in a June agreement with the United States that narrowly averted a multibillion dollar cross-Pacific trade war over violations of intellectual property rights.
Analysts and some industry figures have cast doubt on China's commitment to wipe out piracy, but the music executives said they had been encouraged by their talks with Chinese copyright and publishing officials.
"Our conversations with Chinese officials in the last couple of days lead us to believe that they are very cognisant of the problem and doing everything that they can to control it," said Perry.
"The laws are in place, they have an understanding of what has to happen and yes, they have had successes in closing certain factories," he said. "We believe that will continue."
The executives, who are part of a trade delegation to China led by European Commission Vice President Sir Leon Brittan, said they hoped to build an industry that would develop Chinese musical talent for a domestic and international audience.
The multimillion dollar Chinese music market had the potential to grow 10-fold over the next few years, industry officials in the delegation said.
"We... tried to explain to the Chinese what we could do together," said Polygram Far East president Norman Cheng, "They have been pretty receptive to all these ideas."
"This is our first round of meetings," said Michael Smellie, senior vice president of BMG Entertainment International Asia Pacific. "We were encouraged."
Music imports into China were still negligible, while pirate sales were estimated at $170 million a year, roughly equivalent to the value of legitimate sales, said Adrian Strain of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).
European music companies were looking for Chinese partners to develop the local market, with former pirate firms among the potential wedding partners, the executives said.
While it was impossible to wipe out piracy with a single campaign, Beijing's crackdown on illicit production had worried illegal producers and had forced them to shift some production lines to Vietnam and even South America, IFPI officials said.
The head of China's restive northwestern Xinjiang on Friday accused western nations of working with pro-independence activists to try to split the nation, saying no end was in sight in the war on separatism.
Activists in the mainly-Moslem district had fomented riots and carried out political killings, but their struggle against Beijing rule was bound to fail, chairman of the Xinjiang autonomous region, Ablait Abdureschit, told reporters here.
"Against the strategic background of some people internationally engaging in splitting and westernising China, there is a small clique who want to split Xinjiang from China and achieve independence," he said.
"To achieve their objectives they take all kinds of actions; they infiltrate, make propaganda, carry out assassinations and create riots," he said.
"The vast majority of Xinjiang people resolutely oppose such activities," he said, adding western conspiracies to divide China could never succeed.
Separatists stood against the economic progress that Beijing was bringing to a region where development had long lagged behind other areas of China, he said, accusing un-named western nations of conspiring with pro-independence activists.
"In the last few years some western countries have concentrated on engaging in activities to westernise and split China," he said. "...In Xinjiang, the separatists have cooperated with the international conspiracy to westernise and split China."
Authorities in Xinjiang this year intensified a crackdown on separatists and unauthorised religious activity after a series of violent clashes, bombings and assassinations of officials and Islamic leaders regarded as pro-Beijing.
The arid region, described by officials as a sunny "Land of Fruit and Melons", is considered by many Chinese a wild frontier province and has a long history of ethnic unrest between the native Uighur population and members of China's Han majority.
In May, Beijing ordered tighter controls along Xinjiang's long borders to block the smuggling of weapons and subversive materials from nearby central Asian states.
Ablait Abdureschit said only a few people were involved in separatist activities in the region, but acknowledged the struggle against separatism was unlikely to end soon.
"Nationalist separatist activities occurred in the past, occur now, and will occur in the future, abroad and also within the country," he said. "This struggle is long-term and complicated."
Despite the struggle against separatism, the outlook was bright for the sprawling region, which borders Afghanistan, Pakistan and three mainly-Moslem central Asian states from the former Soviet Union, Ablait Abdureschit said.
Beijing, which provided more than 40 percent of the region's government budget, was working hard to boost the economy and improve Xinjiang's links with the outside world, he said.
The resource-rich region was aiming to become one of the country's top grain producers by the end of the century and had already gathered a record cotton harvest of 1.05 million tonnes in 1996, while oil and gas resources were abundant, he said.
"The general situation in Xinjiang is good," he said.
Japan's Finance Ministry, which has long resisted calls from employers to reform the country's rigid corporate pension system, has finally decided to relax its tight grip.
However, industry sources say its proposals fall short of what is needed to cope with Japan's rapidly "greying" society and the poor financial state of employee pension funds resulting from record-low interest rates and a weak economic recovery.
"Unless Japan undertakes a drastic overhaul of the corporate pension system, it will remain out of step with the rest of the world," said an official at an overseas-based investment advisory company.
In the past, the amount of money Japanese corporate pension funds held was so small that authorities could regulate them without too much difficulty. But the amount has grown to about 60 trillion yen ($540 billion) and unless the current system is changed, it will hurt corporate balance sheets, he said.
Yoshihiko Miyauchi, a key member of an advisory panel to the prime minister, said on Thursday that the Finance Ministry had stated in a subcommittee meeting on deregulation that it would abolish restrictions on where employee pension funds managed by trust banks could be invested.
Under the current rules, each trust bank must invest at least half of the funds it manages in fixed-income assets, no more than 30 percent in Japanese stocks, no more than 30 percent in foreign currency-denominated shares and bonds, and no more than 20 percent in real estate.
Japan's corporate pension system is divided into employee pension funds, which are supervised by the Welfare Ministry, and Tax-Qualified Retirement Pension plans (TQPs), which are supervised by the Finance Ministry.
Miyauchi said the Finance Ministry was still considering whether to allow investment advisory firms to manage TQPs. It also told the subcommittee that it was studying whether to allow variable yields and flexible benefits, he said.
The Welfare Ministry has steadily lifted its restrictions on the management on employee pension funds, which have assets estimated at 42 trillion yen ($378 billion), and allowed investment advisory firms to manage the funds.
However, the Finance Ministry has barred investment advisory firms from managing TQPs, which have assets totalling 18 trillion yen ($162 billion). Only trust banks and life insurers are allowed to manage TQPs.
Employers participating in the corporate pension system are required to maintain specified yields, currently 5.5 percent a year, to guarantee predetermined benefits. But the actual return on investments is now only about three percent.
Because of the poor investment environment, many corporate pension funds are facing a shortage of funds to pay benefits to pensioners in the future, industry sources said. If pension funds fall short of meeting future payments, sponsoring companies must cover the shortfall.
Industry sources said that investment advisory firms, especially foreign companies, are keen to manage TQPs.
"Generally speaking, fund managers at Japanese companies are conservative," said the official with the investment advisory company.
"They tend to avoid investment risks because they see the risks, which are short-term volatility, as something dangerous. But experienced foreign advisors are well-qualified to manage pension funds as they take reasonable risks in long-term pension fund management over 20- to 30-year periods," he said.
He said British pension funds invest about 90 percent of their assets in equities, including about 15 percent in foreign stocks.
Ken Okamura, a strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson (Asia) Ltd, said in a recent report that if Japan completely abolished restrictions on asset management of corporate pension funds, it was likely to see more investment in local stocks.
He estimated that at the moment, life insurers and trust banks put an average of about 20 percent of the pension assets they are entrusted with into local stocks.
"If corporate pension funds increase the weighting of local stocks to 30 percent, about six trillion yen ($54.0 billion) of funds will come to Japanese stock markets." ($1=111 yen)
Hewlett-Packard Co. said Friday that it will unveil technology Monday that will provide a breakthrough in the long-deadlocked debate over use of software encoding for secure data traffic.
If the encryption technology has won the backing of industry and the U.S. and other governments -- which Hewlett-Packard officials say is the case -- the development could eliminate a key obstacle to the growth of electronic commerce via the Internet.
Hewlett-Packard Chairman Lewis Platt will provide details on the technology, which includes technology patented by the Palo Alto computer giant as well as other technologies, a company spokesman said.
Technology from RSA Data Corp. the de facto standard-setter for Internet security, will be involved Hewlett-Packard officials said.
Hewlett-Packard stock closed up $1.375 at $50.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Senior Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp. executives were also scheduled to attend Monday's news briefing at the National Press Club in Washington, Hewlett-Packard officials said.
The technology will make it possible to export products containing so-called "strong encryption," which cannot be exported under national security laws dating back to the Cold War.
Under national security law, the U.S. government has allowed the export of software and other computer products containing only weaker data encryption technologies.
Encryption has been classified as a munition because of its potential for use by terrorists, spies or other criminals to conceal messages.
Encryption programmes use mathematical formulas to scramble information, such as electronic mail messages or credit card numbers, to render them unreadable to computer users without a password or "software key" that can unlock the coded material.
For years the domestic computer industry has complained that such restrictions have hampered its competitiveness in world markets, and that its customers did not necessarily want the government to be able to decode internal data.
The industry says the laws have prevented it from offering some of the most recent Internet technologies, even within the United States, because it is impossible to prevent computer users outside U.S. borders from gaining access to technologies publicly available on the Internet.
Companies and their customers want to use encryption to protect confidential communications and electronic commerce.
Silicon Valley executives recently noted that consumer devices, such as WebTV Network's Web browsing television device that hit store shelves this autumn, use the same levels of strong encryption as used in military systems.
WebTV said it is using keys comprised of 128 bits, or characters, of data to encode and decode its communications to its set-top boxes to provide consumers with the best level of security available over the Internet.
The government recently proposed that the roadblock be eliminated by providing a key recovery system, in which authorities could recover keys to crack messages if they received a court warrant to do so.
Industry has rebuffed this as difficult to manage.
The solution being offered by Hewlett-Packard would be flexible, allowing customers to use the levels of encryption required by different governments, the company said.
"This is going to allow very strong encryption," said a spokeswoman.
Hewlett-Packard said its technology would provide a means of "solving the data security and integrity issues that have impaired and frightened users and companies from exploiting the full power of the Internet."
Data Security Inc., the computer security pioneer acquired this year by Security Dynamics Technologies Inc. is also expected to be involved in Monday's announcement.
RSA Data has become a de facto standard-setter for security over the Internet by licensing rights and technology to use its encryption systems. Hewlett-Packard declined to identify other companies or technology that may be involved.
A gunman in military fatigues shot his way into a Ford Motor Co. assembly plant and continued firing Thursday, killing one person and wounding two before barricading himself in a network of drainage tunnels.
The suspect, 29-year-old Gerald Atkins of Wixom, fired repeatedly at officers in a 4 1/2-hour standoff but had given up voluntarily by late afternoon, police said.
Authorities said Atkins, armed with a high-powered assault-type rifle, fatally shot Darrell Izzard, 57, the Ford plant's manager of manufacturing planning, and wounded two Oakland County sheriff's deputies. The 18-year Ford veteran killed in the rampage was married and had three children.
Another worker in the factory was injured slightly in the neck by glass fragements from a window that was shot out.
Ford officials said Atkins had never been a Ford employee but had apparently come to the plant to talk to a woman he had been dating. He had had no prior contact with Izzard.
"He more or less shot his way into the plant," Wixom Police Sgt. Richard Howe said, adding that Atkins fired on a security office at the plant's main entrance when unarmed security guards tried to block his way.
One employee, who identified herself as Christy, told WWJ Radio the gunman told her, "Get out of here," before he started shooting.
"He knew what he was doing. He just started shooting, and when he ran out of ammo, he just reloaded and kept on shooting," she said.
Howe, the Wixom police sergeant, said that after firing shots in several parts of the plant, Atkins left the sprawling facility and shot two deputies who tried to apprehend him.
One deputy was hit in the shoulder and the other in the leg as they tried to confront the gunman outside the plant.
One of the wounded officers, Matt Miller, 39, was listed in fair condition but may need shoulder surgery, Amy Middleton, a spokeswoman for Providence Hospital in Southfield, Michigan, said.
Police shut down adjacent Interstate 96 for most of the afternoon. Workers were evacuated from the plant, and production of Lincoln Town Cars, Continentals and Mark VIII luxury cars was suspended until Monday.
Howe said Atkins fired several shots at police from a series of storm drainage tunnels underneath the plant but they managed to close off the tunnels and persuade him to surrender.
They had not established a motive for the rampage.
But a friend of Atkins said he had been having problems in a relationship with a female employee at the plant and "something cracked."
"Gerry's a very intense guy. He was in the military and was very successful in it," Ron Vahanian, a neighbor of Atkins, said. "I think there might have been problems with this girlfriend that he had that worked there."
Several workers said security at the facility, which employs about 3,200 people, was lax and identification cards were rarely checked.
Ford officials pledged to review security measures at all company facilities. "We're going to take a look at everything," Ford Automotive Group President Jacques Nasser said, adding that Thursday's incident "was probably impossible to prevent."
The shooting was the fourth at a Ford plant in the Detroit area since August 1994. It also fell on the fifth anniversary of a shooting rampage at the Royal Oak, Michigan, post office in which a fired postal worker killed himself and four others.
Air Hong Kong Ltd (AHK) chief operating officer, Stanley Hui said the August 25 start of its first trans-Pacific service means the airline is now firmly headed in the right direction.
The head of Hong Kong's only all-cargo airline told Reuters in an interview said it was "an important milestone towards a much brighter future."
However Hui said the cargo carrier did not make any money in the first half of 1996 suffering, like many others, from low yields.
Last year AHK made its first ever profit and although Hui would not disclose the exact amount, he said it was "very healthy" after "huge losses" in the past.
Four years ago, things were so bad that the airline was just a telephone call away from going under, industry sources said.
But then a new management team was installed, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd came to the rescue by taking a 75 percent stake, loss-making routes were cut, old aircraft were retired and three newly converted Boeing 747-200s acquired, Hui added.
The new aircraft are able to carry 25 tons more tonnes than the carrier's old aircraft and complete with a new Chinese wheel company logo signifying brisk business, they began a twice weekly service to Chicago on August 25.
When Air Hong Kong's third converted 747 leased from Cathay Pacific for 15 years joins the fleet in October, the Chicago service will become three times weekly.
Hui says the new route has been possible with the leasing of the three former combi 747s which formerly flew with the Brazilian airline Varig.
The aircraft, converted at Boeing facilities in Wichita, Kansas and at Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Ltd, will give AHK a much higher aircraft utilisation rate from 12 to 14 hours per day.
AHK existing fleet of older 747s are being returned to the leasing company.
"We're talking about more expensive aeroplanes but they're more reliable, with better payload and can help save on maintenance so it's a good investment for this company."Hui said.
Cathay Pacific has handed its once weekly Chicago service over to AHK in order to concentrate on its own new twice weekly freighter service to New York which also started on August 24.
The new U.S. services have been made possible after a new air agreement was drawn up between the U.S. and Hong Kong government.
AHK also fly to Dubai, Brussels and Manchester five times a week and twice weekly to Osaka. It has applied for a twice weekly service to Seoul in South Korea on Friday.
Hui said there has been a 20 per cent drop in cargo selling rates over the past six months.
"But I'm not surprised, the market is very competive, very seasonal and slow in the first half. We have seen a slower market this year consequently rates have dropped, tonnage is down, rates and yields are down but I think we are seeing a nice recovery. Developing for us and Chicago will help that. It is a very important gateway for us," Hui said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44-171-542-7706 Fax+44-171-542-5017
The Internet continued to grow in leaps and bounds this year while online services found it much harder to add new customers, a survey said Friday.
An estimated 35 million adults in the United States had used the Internet, according to the poll by Louis Harris and Associates conducted in late September, up from 27 million at the beginning of the year.
"Although the number of people who use computers has fluctuated around just over half of the adult population, the number of adult Americans using computers for cyber-activities is growing," said Humphrey Taylor, chairman of the polling organisation.
While online services like America Online Inc. and Compuserve Corp. could lay claim to almost 41 million subscribers, that was the same level Harris found back in January.
Online services, which provide private online content in addition to Internet access, have faced greater competition this year from companies like AT&amp;T Corp., which provide cheaper Internet-only access.
Businesses, which are looking to the Internet as a potential source of new revenue, are intensely interested in figures on its usage. Differing surveys have come up with widely varying numbers.
The Harris poll found that, although more people are getting wired, they are on average spending less time in cyberspace.
Home users said they were online 2.8 hours a week, down from three hours a week in an April survey. Business and other users said they were online for 1.8 hours, down from two hours in April.
The poll also reinforced findings of earlier studies showing that more educated people were more likely to use computers and access the Internet.
People with college and graduate degrees were twice as likely to use computers and four times more likely to access the Internet as people who only graduated from high school, the poll found.
The poll's results were based on a telephone survey of 1,032 adults at the end of September and have a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, according to Harris.
Officials from Ford Motor Co pledged to review security measures Thursday after the fourth fatal shooting in two years at one of their facilities.
But executives from the automaker said there was little that plant security guards, who do not carry guns, could do to defend themselves against armed intruders.
"When somebody blasts their way into a factory, it's very difficult to prevent," said Jacques Nasser, the executive vice president in charge of Ford's automotive operations.
A gunman dressed in military fatigues shot his way into Ford's Wixom Assembly plant about 30 miles west of Detroit Thursday morning, according to police.
The man killed a manufacturing planning manager, 57-year old Darrell Izzard, and fired at people throughout the plant, sending workers fleeing in panic through the sprawling assembly complex.
Before it was over more than four hours later, several people, including two police officers, had been wounded.
The shooting came three months after a Ford worker shot and killed a security guard at Ford's Sheldon Road climate control plant in Plymouth, Mich. In January of 1995, another employee of the plant wounded his estranged wife and killed her boyfriend before killing himself.
In September 1994, a United Auto Worker union official killed two fellow union officials and wounded two others during a shooting at Ford's Rouge Manufacturing centre in Dearborn, Mich.
Throughout Thursday, radio and television stations carried calls they said they received from hourly Ford workers who complained about the stressful work environment at the Wixom plant and other Ford facilities.
But Ford spokesman Jon Harmon pointed out the suspect in the Wixom shooting, identified as Gerald Atkins, 29, was not an employee of any Ford facility. Moreover, he noted it has not been uncommon in recent months for workers at Wixom to be idled because of slow demand for vehicles made at the plant.
The plant produces the Lincoln Town Car, Mark VIII and Continental cars, which have all been experiencing soft sales. About 3,000 hourly workers, members of United Auto Workers union Local 36, work at the facility.
During a news conference, plant manager Jeff Haller described the plant's workforce as dedicated, hard-working and cohesive. He said the plant's security measures would be reviewed. Some workers told reporters they had not had their security badges checked in eight years.
UAW Local 36 President Richard Greenfield said the union was saddened by the event and had set up a counselling line. He declined to comment on the day's events because the investigation had not been completed.
State-owned Air France is under pressure from the French government to drop any thought of buying Boeing long-haul jets from the U.S. and stick with the French-based Airbus equivalent, industry sources said on Friday.
They said that Air France chairman Christian Blanc flew into a political storm after saying on Thursday that the French flag carrier might use a mix of Boeing and Airbus planes in its planned new long-haul fleet, expected to cost some $1 billion.
One industry source said the pressure on Blanc had come from Transport Minister Bernard Pons.
"It's clear there is extremely strong political pressure," head of the SNPL pilots union Geoffrey Bouvet said on Friday.
Blanc on Thursday told the business newspaper Les Echos there was no conflict in flying both the Airbus 340 and Boeing 777 aircraft.
"They are complementary...Today like yesterday, we need both Airbus and Boeing." He added that he did not expect government opposition if the company bought from both European Airbus Industrie consortium and arch-rival Boeing.
"The minister, having talked to Airbus, has been told that there will be an equivalent Airbus product. It is perfectly natural that he ask the national company to invest in Airbus," a transport ministry spokeswoman said.
Any decision will go to Prime Minister Alain Juppe for ratification, the transport ministry spokeswoman said.
France's state-owned Aerospatiale is a senior partner in Airbus. The others are British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
At the heart of the debate, apart from technical merits of the fleet, is Blanc's desire to run the airline as a "normal" company along commercial lines, free of political intervention.
Blanc's mandate is to turn round the airline, prepare it for privatisation and deregulation of European air travel from 1997. He has forecast the group was on track to break even this year.
Because of the political sensitivity, a committee of Air France board members was formed to evaluate the products and will submit its conclusion on December 20.
The union's Bouvet said Air France should be left to choose the right planes for particular routes rather than have a fleet imposed by the government. A mixed fleet could make economic sense, if a world class airline such as Singapore Airlines could fly both Airbus and Boeing, he said.
Air France is expected to order between five and 10 planes.
The official list price for the A340-300 is around $120 million. The plane seats 295 passengers in a typical three-class layout and can fly up to 7,300 nautical miles or 13,500 km.
The Boeing 777 flies in two basic versions. The 777-200 seats between 305 to 328 in three classes and has a catalogue price of $128-146 million, and has a range of 3,780 nautical miles, or 7,000 km.
The 777-300, officially priced at $151 million-170 million, seats between 368 and 394, flies 5,380 miles or 9,970 km.
A Boeing spokesman said the company has made a number of offers to Air France using different product mixes.
Airbus itself declined to comment.
The Air France operating company in June reported a first-half operating profit of 413 million francs compared with a loss of 902 million in the first half of 1995.
Czech paper concern Sepap Group a.s. on Friday said its nine-month net profit fell as a shutdown of its main paper mill, coupled with a downturn in the paper cycle bit into its bottom line.
Sepap said its nine-month net profit, calculated according to international accounting standards, fell to 188.4 million crowns from 520.4 million over the same period in 1995, while revenues slumped to 3.94 billion crowns from 5.34 billion.
The firm said results from the third quarter only had stabilised after a first half industry downtrend, though "the planned annual shutdown of the Steti mill lowered earnings by virtue of the expected higher maintenance costs associated with the stoppage".
"Overall, Sepap year-end ernings are expected to rise and show a slight improvement over third quarter levels," a company statement said.
The Steti mill, which accounts for some three-quarters of the group's revenues and profits, saw its pre-tax profits plummet to seven million crowns.
Comparative figures were not immediately available, but the mill's nine-month 1995 gross profit was some 95 million crowns.
"The market place is sending mixed signals for the fourth quarter. Anticipated price increases have not taken hold at the anticipated levels in all of the pulp and paper grades," the statement said.
It added that the group's second biggest subsidiary, newsprint maker ROTO, "continued to produce good results in a market that is weakening".
ROTO showed a nine-month pre-tax profit of 149 million crowns on sales of 1.25 billion crowns.
Last year, Sepap was the center of a heated battle for control between Bahamas-based investor Michael Dingman and Swedish forestry concern Assidoman.
Dingman, who controls 48 percent of Sepap through his Daventree Ltd investment company, won the battle, but later accepted Assidoman's role as a strategic partner in the paper industry. The Swedish firm holds a 39 percent stake in Sepap.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech power producer CEZ a.s. on Friday said its nine month net profit hit 8.4 billion crowns, up from 7.4 billion for the same period last year, according to international accounting standards, as household electricity demand surged.
CEZ's Director of Planning and Analysis section Petr Voboril told a news conference that higher depriciation write-offs due to the opening of new installations cut the company's tax obligations, and boosting its bottom line.
The company's gross profit for the period remained flat at 13.1 billion.
Czech accounting put the firm's profit for the first nine months at 7.04 billion, up from 6.7 billion last year.
CEZ said the result did not change the firm's profit forecast under Czech standards for the whole year, which is 8.1 billion crowns, equal to last year's.
A financial statement showed CEZ wrote off 4.1 billion in the first nine months compared with 3.4 billion in the same period of 1995, and paid 4.7 billion in income tax after 5.7 billion last year.
"Above all, lowering of tax obligations in connection with depriciation policy have influenced this (profit) increase," Voboril said.
He said that overall demand for electricity rose by 5.5 percent in the period, and is expected to reach a record high of 55.3 terrawatthours, 6.1 percent up year-on-year, for the whole 1996.
Household consumption drove the increase, rising 10.5 percent, while large clients demanded almost two percent more power over the same period of the last year.
Voboril said that a recent ruling by the Finance Minstry on maximum prices CEZ can charge regional power distributors did not effect results thanks to the sales increase.
The ministry decided that the maximum average price CEZ can charge for supplies this year is 1,035 crowns per megawatthour, up two crowns from the last year but below the firm's 1,040 crown expectation included in business plan.
Voboril said that short-term indebtedness of CEZ increased as well as financial expenditures due to unpaid recievables from some of the eight regional distributors, which totalled 3.2 billion crowns as of September 30.
CEZ and six of the country's eight regional grid operators had been locked in a price dispute with CEZ until the ministry ruling last month.
CEZ is also considering an international bond issue next year as it needs financing but has already flooded the domestic market with paper, Voboril said.
Local analysts welcomed the results but said they did not expect them to help CEZ's share price much as the Prague Stock Exchange is plagued by a lack of confidence.
"The CEZ results are slightly better than I expected. CEZ is fundamentally undervalued but genereal market sentiment is not very strong," said Petr Dousa of Zivnostenska Banka. "I don't expect the price to go up to 1,000 in the next few days."
CEZ shares closed up 14 crowns on the Prague Stock Exchange on Friday to close at 937.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech paper concern Sepap Group a.s. on Friday said its nine-month net profit fell as a shutdown of its main paper mill, coupled with a downturn in the paper cycle bit into its bottom line.
Sepap said its nine-month net profit, calculated according to international accounting standards, fell to 188.4 million crowns ($7 million) from 520.4 million over the same period in 1995, while revenues slumped to 3.94 billion crowns from 5.34 billion.
The firm said results from the third quarter only had stabilised after a first half industry downtrend, though "the planned annual shutdown of the Steti mill lowered earnings by virtue of the expected higher maintenance costs associated with the stoppage".
"Overall, Sepap year-end earnings are expected to rise and show a slight improvement over third quarter levels," a company statement said.
The Steti mill, which accounts for some three-quarters of the group's revenues and profits, saw its pre-tax profits plummet to seven million crowns.
Comparative figures were not immediately available, but the mill's nine-month 1995 gross profit was some 95 million crowns.
"The market place is sending mixed signals for the fourth quarter. Anticipated price increases have not taken hold at the anticipated levels in all of the pulp and paper grades," the statement said.
It added that the group's second biggest subsidiary, newsprint maker ROTO, "continued to produce good results in a market that is weakening".
ROTO showed a nine-month pre-tax profit of 149 million crowns on sales of 1.25 billion crowns.
Last year, Sepap was the centre of a heated battle for control between Bahamas-based investor Michael Dingman and Swedish forestry concern Assidoman.
Dingman, who controls 48 percent of Sepap through his Daventree Ltd investment company, won the battle, but later accepted Assidoman's role as a strategic partner in the paper industry. The Swedish firm holds a 39 percent stake in Sepap.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003 ($ = 26.86 Czech Crowns)
Volkswagen AG Czech unit, Skoda Auto a.s., on Friday launched sales of its new sedan, the Octavia, hoping to kill off jokes about Communist-era quality, and pull the company into profit.
Officials said the new model, built on a common VW platform designed for the 1998 Audi A3 and upgraded Golf, would expand Skoda's market penetration by putting the company's first post-Communist mid-sized car in showrooms worldwide.
"Our strategic markets are in central and eastern Europe, western Europe, and we are present in some Asian markets. We expect to sell Octavias successfully in all of our 66 markets," marketing director Frank Farsky told Reuters.
The new sedan received a heroe's welcome at showrooms around the capital Prague on Friday as crowds gathered to watch dealers mount the Octavia on viewing pedastals.
Exports of the front-grilled Octavia -- a major step away from the boxy sub-compacts which made the Communist-era Skoda the butt of automotive jokes worldwide --  to Europe and beyond later this year or in the first quarter next year.
The car will be available on the domestic market with a choice of three petrol and two diesel engines, with the top-of-the-line SLX automatic model priced at 497,900 crowns, and a base model priced at 335,700 crowns.
"In the Czech market its more or less toward a luxury- class car by the nature the purchasing power and the nature of the car market itself," Farsky said.
"In western europe it is a medium sized car that will belong to the middle class market, and in asian marekts I thinik it will be toward the luxury class," he added.
Skoda will make 64,000 Octavias in 1997 at its new purpose-built plant in Mlada Boleslav north of Prague, and raise production to 90,000 in 1998.
Skoda Chairman Ludvik Kalma said earlier this year he expected 20,000 Octavias to be sold annually on the home market, with the rest exported to Europe and points East.
"I think customers who would be looking for a used car would look at a Skoda Octavia, I think that people who own a smaller car would look at Octavia," Farsky said.
The company lost 1.621 billion crowns last year due to heavy investments into the new factory, but Kalma said the firm should come close to breaking even this year.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus kept his options open on whether the domination of his Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in this weekend's first round of Senate elections might encourage a quest for a larger mandate.
As results for the new upper house came in late on Saturday, Klaus reserved comment on possibly using his party's strength in the Senate races as a signal to seek new elections to the lower house in order to win back a majority government.
Klaus's ODS won 36.47 percent of the total vote on Saturday in the first test since his conservative three-party coalition lost its majority in June lower-house elections when the Social Democrats (CSSD) posted a surprising second place result.
This time the opposition CSSD won just 20.27 percent of the vote after falling about three percentage points short of the ODS's 29.6 percent in June. But voter turnout this time was very light making it difficult to draw broad conclusions.
Klaus, who like all ministers sits in the lower house, hedged his bets on possible early lower house elections.
"I've said many times this country does not need another election. It needs to function, work," Klaus said in a panel discussion on Czech Televisoin after the vote.
But he added: "If the Senate vote gives a chance to go forward, it'll be good for all of us."
The ODS put 76 candidates through to next weekend's runoff elections out of the 81 constituencies, and won three seats outright by taking more than 50 percent of the vote.
In 73 districts, ODS had the top candidate go into the runoff, while CSSD had 48 candidates in a runoff, but won no seats outright and had nobody on top in any constiuency.
Exactly seven years since the revolution which would end Communism began, only about one in three eligible Czechs voted, less than half the turnout for the previous three lower-house elections since the 1989 revolution.
Analysts said many Czechs felt that the upper house, which will have limited legislative powers and act more as an advisory body, was redundant.
Pre-election opinion polls showed many people did not did not know who was running in their district, and there was a wide misunderstanding of the two-round voting system.
But no one really knows how the dynamics will change in next weekend's runoffs or if turnout will improve.
"The situation is not as rosy as it may appear..." cautioned ODS party vice-chairman, Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec even after the strong result for ODS was apparent.
Analysts said that it would be too soon to declare the first round vote an unmitigated success for ODS, as the second round will be much more polarised and the choices between two candidates instead of many will be distinct.
Czechs cold-shouldered their newly-created Senate on Saturday, turning out in record low numbers for elections which were supposed to be a key test for the minority government of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
Early results showed candidates of Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS) ahead in the few constituencies declared so far but without the majority of the vote needed to win outright, meaning they will face the runner-up in a second round.
Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec, an ODS vice chairman, welcomed the results but warned supporters against overconfidence. "I'm very happy that several of our candidates have moved into the next round," he told reporters.
But he added: "I warn you, add up all the votes for all of the candidates and think how they will go in the second round. The situation is not as rosy as it may appear from the numbers of ODS candidates that are moving into the next round."
With three of the 81 constitunecies officially declared, the striking statistic was the turnout figure which ranged from 26.36 percent in the northern mining town of Most to 29.78 in one constituency in the industrial city of Ostrava.
One official of the Central Electoral Commission, Ales Kaspar, forecast that turnout nationwide would be by far the lowest in the four parliamentary elections held since the 1989 fall of communism. "According to optimistic expectations, the turnout could be between 30 and 40 percent," he told Reuters.
This suggested the real winners might not be ODS or the opposition Social Democrats, but the far-right Republicans who boycotted the Senate polls and told Czechs to follow suit.
Opposition Social Democrat leader Milos Zeman bewailed Czechs' apathy towards the upper house, but predicted turnout would improve in the second round on November 22-23.
"I would like to remind all voters who criticise our country that by not voting they do not have the right to criticise the government. They have only the right to criticise themselves," said Zeman, who is speaker of the lower house.
But he added: "I firmly believe that in the second round, participation will be markedly higher because then it is a choice between the two strongest candidates," he said.
Share dealers welcomed signs that ODS, which has led free-market reform in recent years, would do well.
"The early results appear pleasantly good for ODS. To me, if these continue, it could be a good result for the market," said Jan Sykora of Prgaue brokerage Wood and Co.
Pundits have billed the Senate elections as an indicator of whether the Czech Republic can break out of a political impasse following inconclusive lower house polls which stripped Klaus's conservative coalition of its majority last June.
But the apparent low turnout, which compares with 76.4 percent in June, seems a vindication of the Republicans and their leader Miroslav Sladek.
Sladek regards the Senate as a waste of time and money. "They had nowhere to dump the political zombies so they established the Senate," he told a recent anti-election rally, adding that it "would be lazy, useless and expensive".
One complaint among voters was that many of the Senate candidates were unknown as government and opposition leaders all sit in the lower Chamber of Deputies. Few Czechs have much idea of what the Senate will do.
Conventional wisdom has been that if ODS did well in the Senate Klaus might provoke early lower house polls to regain the coalition's majority. If ODS lost to the Social Democrats, however, he could be forced to resign after seven years leading economic reform as finance minister and since 1992 as premier.
But Jiri Pehe, research director at the Open Media Research Institute (OMRI), said these theories may not be valid.
ODS is better at mobilising its supporters than the Social Democrats when interest is low. A big ODS win on a low turnout might therefore not be representative for lower house polls.
"If there is a low turnout, even if Klaus wins, I think that it would be very difficult for the ODS to know the real mood of the country," he said.
-- Prague newsroom (42 2) 24 23 0003
The party of Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus performed strongly in Senate elections on Saturday but with turnout at 35 percent, the real winner was apathy.
In what was billed as a key test of the minority coalition government, Klaus's centre-right Civic Democratic Party (ODS) took a commanding 36.47 percent of the first round vote, with the opposition Social Democrats trailing on 20.27 percent.
The result was a major improvement for the ODS, which won only 29.6 percent in elections to the lower house in June when a strong Social Democrat performance of 26.4 percent stripped Klaus's three-party coalition of its majority.
Klaus, the father of Czech economic reform, played down the voter apathy and played up the ODS performance.
"It is obvious that the citizens of this country understand that they want stability," he told reporters, alluding to the political stalemate since the inconclusive lower house polls.
"These elections ... are an important test of the political feelings of people of this country about the (June) elections. In this respect they are giving an important signal," he said.
Klaus also sidestepped questions on whether he might seek early lower house elections to try to regain his majority.
But analysts said the results may be misleading. Unlike the lower house system of proportional representation, the Senate is elected in two rounds of a first-past-the-post system.
Only three ODS candidates won outright in the first round held on Friday and Saturday. Another 76 face a run-off on November 22-23 between the top two contenders in constitiuencies where no-one won more than half the first round vote.
Also, the well-organised and funded ODS is better at rallying support when public interest in elections is low than the Social Democrats. Klaus cannot therefore automatically rely on repeating the performance in a lower house election, when turnout is usually over 75 percent.
But the dismal turnout vindicated more the far-right Republicans, who boycotted the elections to the newly-created upper house and told fellow Czechs to do likewise.
The Central Election Commission said turnout was just 35.03 percent, far lower than forecast and compared with 76.4 percent participation in lower house elections in June.
Zeman, whose party has been afflicted by squabbling, appeared to blame the low turnout for the poor result.
But he added: "I firmly believe that in the second round, participation will be markedly higher because then it is a choice between the two strongest candidates."
In the end the Republicans led by doctor of philosophy Miroslav Sladek came out looking best without even running.
Sladek hit a chord by denouncing the Senate as a waste of time and money. "They had nowhere to dump the political zombies so they established the Senate," he told a recent rally.
Polls showed few Czechs understand the function of the Senate, which has little power compared with the lower Chamber of Deputies. With a few exceptions, most of the candidates are little known because Czech leaders all sit in the lower house.
The party of Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus pulled ahead in Senate elections on Saturday but with turnout at just 35 percent, the real winner was apathy.
In what was billed as a key test of Klaus's minority coalition government, candidates of his centre-right Civic Democratic Party (ODS) topped voting in 66 of the 71 constituencies declared by mid-evening.
But most face a second round run-off on November 22-23 for the newly-created upper house, and analysts said the dismal turnout vindicated more the far-right Republicans, who boycotted the elections and told fellow Czechs to do likewise.
Nationwide figures were not available. But the Central Election Commission said turnout in 53 of the 81 constituencies had been just 34.27 percent.
This was far lower than forecast and compared with 76.4 percent participation in lower house elections held in June.
Klaus, the father of Czech economic reform, played down the voter apathy and played up the ODS performance following his electoral disaster last June, when strong Social Democrat gains stripped his three-party coalition of its lower house majority.
"From the results so far it is obvious that the citizens of this country understand that they want stability," he told reporters, alluding to the political stalemate which has stalled reform since the inconclusive lower house polls.
"These elections ... are an important test of the political feelings of people of this country about the (June) elections. In this respect they are giving an important signal," he said.
Under the Senate rules, candidates who fail to win over half the first round vote have to face the runner-up in a second round. Most constituencies will be decided next weekend.
But already it appears the Social Democrats of economist Milos Zeman have done badly, failing to come out on top in a single constituency.
Zeman, whose party has been afflicted by squabbling, appeared to blame the low turnout for the poor result.
But he added: "I firmly believe that in the second round, participation will be markedly higher because then it is a choice between the two strongest candidates."
In the end the Republicans led by doctor of philosophy Miroslav Sladek came out looking best without even running.
Sladek hit a chord by denouncing the Senate as a waste of time and money. "They had nowhere to dump the political zombies so they established the Senate," he told a recent rally.
Polls showed few Czechs understand the function of the Senate, which has little power compared with the lower Chamber of Deputies. With a few exceptions, most of the candidates are little known because Czech leaders all sit in the lower house.
Conventional wisdom has been that if ODS did well in the Senate, Klaus might provoke early lower house polls to regain the coalition's majority, although he denies that.
But ODS is better at mobilising support than the Social Democrats when interest is low. A big ODS win on a low turnout might therefore not be representative for lower house polls.
"If there is a low turnout, even if Klaus wins, I think that it would be very difficult for the ODS to know the real mood of the country," said Jiri Pehe, research director at the Open Media Research Institute (OMRI).
Czechs cold-shouldered their newly-created Senate on Saturday, turning out in record low numbers for elections which were supposed to be a key test for the minority government of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
The apathy suggested that the real winners might not be Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS) or the opposition Social Democrats, but the far-right Republicans who boycotted the Senate elections and told fellow Czechs to follow suit.
Unofficial figures from the two-day first round, which ended on Saturday, indicated that turnout would be well under 40 percent, by far the lowest in the four parliamentary elections held since the 1989 fall of communism.
Opposition Social Democrat leader Milos Zeman bewailed Czechs' apathy towards the upper house, but predicted that turnout would improve in the second round on November 22-23.
"I think that no party can be happy with the low election turnout, because people that don't turn out for the Senate elections are giving up their civic rights, the right to vote, the right to decide," Zeman told reporters.
No national figures were available immediately after the polls closed at 2.00 p.m. (1300 GMT).
But preliminary, unofficial data from some of the 81 constituencies showed Klaus's centre-right ODS doing well against a bleak background on turnout.
In the Western city of Plzen, turnout was just 36 percent with the ODS candidate expected to face a Social Democrat in the second round, the Czech news agency CTK reported.
If no candidate wins more than half the vote in the first round, the top two candidates go through to the runoff.
In the northern mining town of Most, turnout was 26 percent with the ODS candidate leading trade union leader Richard Falbr, who is running for the Social Democrats.
Pundits have billed the Senate elections as an indicator of whether the Czech Republic can break out of a political impasse following inconclusive lower house polls which stripped Klaus's conservative coalition of its majority last June.
But the apparent low turnout, which compares with 76.4 percent in June, seems a vindication of the Republicans and their leader Miroslav Sladek.
Sladek regards the Senate as a waste of time and money. "They had nowhere to dump the political zombies so they established the Senate," he told a recent anti-election rally, adding that it "would be lazy, useless and expensive".
Conventional wisdom has been that if ODS did well in the Senate Klaus might provoke early lower house polls to regain the coalition's majority. If ODS lost to the Social Democrats, however, he could be forced to resign after seven years leading economic reform as finance minister and since 1992 as premier.
A shipping tycoon whose company was bailed out by Beijing when it was sinking years ago is poised to govern Hong Kong when China takes over next year, after a thumping victory in the first round of the ballot.
Tung Chee-hwa swept up 206 of the votes cast on Friday by an exclusive club of 400 Hong Kong's rich and influential, who were selected for the purpose under Beijing's close supervision.
The runner-up, former chief judge Ti Liang Yang scored 82. A third candidate, businessman Peter Woo, came in with 54. The trio were the only candidates to get the minimum 50 votes required to go through to the deciding round on December 11.
If an election were held by universal suffrage, however, Yang would get 35.7 percent and Tung 33.5 percent, an opinion poll by a local university showed after the vote.
Tung, 59, recently revealed for the first time that China had helped salvage his family shipping empire 11 years ago by backing a US$120 million syndicated fund led by pro-Beijing tycoon Henry Fok, a kingmaker in today's leadership contest.
"I know there were mainland funds in it. I'm sure. To Mr Fok and those who have helped me...I am very grateful," Tung said.
Fok went to pains after Friday's vote to assure reporters for half an hour that the rescue package was above board and had not entailed any political deal on the future of Hong Kong.
"I don't think he is returning favours to China by running for the Chief Executive," Fok said.
"Commercial relations are strictly what we have with those what you call Chinese-funded banks. We deposit our money there or we borrow money from them -- it is strictly normal commercial relations," Fok said.
Tung has long been viewed as Beijing's favoured candidate to become Hong Kong's Chief Executive when Britain hands its last Asian colony back to China at midnight next June 30.
Foreign Minister Qian Qichen gave fresh assurances on Friday that the winner had not been preordained by Chinese leaders.
Many in Hong Kong are convinced that a demonstrative personal handshake that Tung received from President Jiang Zemin in January was a deliberate cue.
Tung has tried to shake off the impression that despite the existence of other candidates it is really a one-horse race.
"I dont think it is a foregone conclusion. It's three weeks away to December 11...and I will have to be working very hard to make sure that I win on that day," he told Reuters Television after the first round vote.
"The process of nomination today was done in a very transparent manner," he said.
Some analysts, noting that Tung had scored more than 50 percent, wondered if a second round was worth the bother and suggested that Yang and Woo might as well bow out.
"For, if the ultimate purpose of running is to win, then there is little point in them carrying on," said political commentator C.K. Lau.
Tung, a striking figure with spiky grey hair and a boxer's stance, is noted for his cautious style and modesty.
He and his rivals will be interviewed by the committee members at the end of the month on their policies and attitudes.
So far he has emphasised the importance of the economy and business, and has taken a conservative view on ticklish issues such as human rights and democracy, advocating "consensus rather than confrontation" in dealings with China's communist rulers.
Speculation has abounded in Hong Kong that some of its business titans may have been secret card carrying members of the Chinese Communist Party for years. But Tung's name has until now not figured among these rumours.
China's Communist Party has taken its crusade to resurrect socialist values to Tibet, with a call for textbooks and publications to stress the historical links between the restive Himalayan region and its Chinese rulers.
Delegates to a recent Communist Party meeting urged Tibet to embrace "spiritual civilisation", or socialist values, to uproot the influence of the region's exiled spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, the Tibet Daily said in an edition seen in Beijing on Saturday.
"Protecting the unity of the motherland and opposing the Dalai Lama's evil activities to split the motherland is a major task of building spiritual civilisation in our region," the November 6 edition of the official newspaper said.
"School textbooks, classrooms and various publications must strengthen (the) embodiment of the historical links between Tibet and the motherland," the newspaper said.
Beijing says Tibet has been a part of China for centuries but many Tibetans dispute this and have yearned for independence since Communist troops marched into the region in 1950.
"The mentality that Tibet is an inseparable part of the motherland must be firmly established throughout society," the Tibet Daily said.
The newspaper accused the Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his peaceful campaign for Tibetan autonomy, of disfiguring religion to paralyse his people and split the deeply-Buddhist region from the rest of China.
Tibet's most revered spiritual leader fled into exile in India in 1959 after a failed revolt against Chinese rule.
"Tibetan Buddhism has already been disfigured beyond recognition by the Dalai clique," the Tibet Daily said.
"The Dalai clique has employed every possible trick to use religion in vain attempts to split the motherland and paralyse the people," it said.
Greater efforts were needed to expose the "evil" acts of the Dalai Lama that were aimed at stirring up turmoil, it said.
Tibet has been rocked by repeated anti-Chinese protests that Beijing charges are stirred up by the Dalai Lama's supporters.
The newspaper warned that Tibetan culture and material life had been flooded by religious ideas and urged people to embrace socialist culture.
"Religion...cannot provide the impetus for development in Tibet and cannot provide any help to the Tibetan people in throwing off poverty and becoming prosperous," it said.
China has called for greater efforts to promote atheism in the deeply religious area, saying that religious beliefs are a hindrance to economic progress.
Beijing views international support for Tibet's holiest man as a Western plot to split China and contain its development.
China slammed as rude intereference in its internal affairs a meeting last month between the globe-trotting Buddhist monk and representatives of the European Parliament.
Beijing also threatened trade relatiation against Canberra after a meeting between the Dalai Lama and Australian Prime Minister John Howard in September.
Czech analysts on Sunday said the domination of pro-market Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's party in the weekend's first-round Senate elections would have a neutral to mildly positive effect on local financial markets on Monday.
But they said thin voter turnout made it hard for Klaus and his three-party coalition to conclude that the electorate had swung back to their clear favour after they lost their majority in June lower house elections.
"Nobody can jump to conclusions based on these figures, because if you take the total (voter) turnout, it's nothing," said Radek Maly, economist at Citibank Prague.
"We might see a mild strengthening of the crown, but we don't think any major movement," he added.
The currency has traded in a tight range recently at around 26.9 to the dollar and 17.8 to the mark or roughly 2.5 percent above parity with the central bank's mark/dollar basket.
But Maly stressed that the market was focused more on macroeconomic fundamentals and not political influences.
Klaus's rightwing ODS on Saturday won 36.47 percent nationwide compared with 20.47 percent for the second place centre-left opposition Social Democrats (CSSD), with the rest thinly split among coalition parties and the Communists.
That after ODS won by just three percentage points at 29.6 percent over CSSD in the June general elections, costing the coalition a 12-seat majority in the lower house.
The ODS won three seats of the total 81 Senate seats outright in the first round of the Senate vote by taking over 50 percent, and put 73 of their candidates in next weekend's runoff election as the top vote getter in their district.
But only 35 percent of a confused and uninspired Czech electorate voted in the poll for the newly-created Senate, after more than 70 percent voted in the June general elections.
Miroslav Nosal, equities analyst at Prague investment house Patria Finance, said that a premature general election was probably not on the cards, and said the stock market had other concerns than party politics.
"Poor regulation and transparency is already included in the share prices, but from a fundamental point of view many stocks are quite attractive," said Nosal,
He said some foreign investors might be tempted to play on Klaus's victory early on Monday, but any gain based on the political situation would be short lived.
Unless the runoffs build on ODS's success next weekend with much higher turnout, analysts said it was unlikely that Klaus would move for new lower house polls in an effort to win back the coalition's majority in the more powerful lower house.
"If ODS sees a sweeping victory next week...then they might feel tempted for a possible early election in a year or so, but I think they should be very careful about it," said Maly.
Klaus, who as with other ministers is a member of the lower house, late on Saturday was reserved on possible early general elections.
"I've said many times this country does not need another election. It needs to function, work," Klaus said in a panel discussion on Czech Television, adding, "If the Senate vote gives a chance to go forward, it'll be good for all of us."
Commercial sponsors have flocked to the Portuguese enclave of  Macau to back Sunday's annual Grand Prix despite fears that China wants to steal the show.
Fans of Asia's answer to Monte Carlo fear a Formula One track, recently constructed just across the border in the southern Chinese city of Zhuhai, will seduce sponsors and signal the death knell for Macau's Formula Three race.
Macau has no special track with the race run through the enclave's twisting streets.
But the concerns have not materialised this year at least and Macau is festooned with banners, kiosks and giveaways from sponsors including French oil concern Elf, Budweiser and Corona beer, watchmaker Omega and Japanese tyre manufacturer Yokohama.
"Zhuhai hasn't really affected Macau because most of its sponsors are here for very specific reasons," said Stephanie de Kantzow, an organiser of the Macau Formula Three Grand Prix.
The annual event, about 60 kilometres west-southwest of Hong Kong, started in 1954 and many of the world's top drivers have cut their teeth on the tricky 6.2 km (3.8 miles) Guia street circuit. Double Formula One world champion Michael Schumacher, and current Formula One champion Damon Hill are past Macau competitors.
China also insists it is not seeking to edge Macau out of hosting international motor racing.
"We won't affect Macau. Macau's speciality is in the Formula Three, our aim is to host Formual One and the GT (Global Touring) Rally," Yu Binglin, vice-mayor of Zhuhai, said in a recent interview.
Elf, one of the event's major sponsors, said there was no reason for it to pull out of Macau even though another race track has sprung up in China.
"Macau has a history of automobile racing. As long as Formula Three Grand Prix exists in Macau, Elf will be present in Macau. Business and selling products is one thing, sport is another," Michael Bonnet, Elf's director of commercial activities told Reuters.
"What we wish to build in Asia are several (motor racing) schools to develop young drivers from Macau and rest of Asia ... we want to find potential champions in Asia."
Elf sponsored a Formula Campus Challenge in early November at the China Zhuhai 1996 International Race.
Royal/Dutch Shell, which lost its bid as fuel sponsor to Elf in 1995, said it would tender for the 1997 Macau race.
"Macau and Zhuhai have their individual merits, like individual tenders. Macau belongs to our Hong Kong business (budget) rather than China. We'll try to do it next year," Albert Wong, a spokesman for Shell, said earlier last week.
But China, which is determined to muscle its way into the glamourous circuit of international motor racing, is expected to give Macau a good run for its money.
Zhuhai, just 15 km (9 miles) northeast of Macau, boasts a 4.32 km dedicated racing circuit.
The Federation Internationale de L'Automobile (FIA) is conducting a study on whether its is up to standard for endorsement as a suitable Formula One venue.
FIA is also discussing with Chinese officials Zhuhai's possible hosting of a Formula One race in 1997, a senior Zhuhai government said.
"What Zhuhai has done is that it has opened up a whole new area of sponsorship. People who hadn't sponsored car racing before seem to be coming to Zhuhai to see if there's a possibility of being involved in sponsorship," de Kantzow said.
Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd could face a multi-billion-dollar lawsuit over the ownership of its spectacular Busang gold deposit in Indonesia.
The young Calgary-based company said Friday that one of its Indonesian partners, PT Krueng Gasui, threatened it and 19 others with legal action in Canadian courts, claiming damages of US$1.9 billion.
"I find it curious that PT Krueng Gasui has chosen to threaten a lawsuit in Canada relating to matters that allegedly occurred in Indonesia," Bre-X chief executive David Walsh said in a statement.
"However, we will sit down with them and listen to what they have to say."
Krueng Gasui owns an undisputed 10 percent of one section of the Busang discovery. It claims it owns up to 40 percent of the entire deposit, but Bre-X says the Indonesian company does not have the documentation to back up its claims.
Bre-X, which closed down C$1 at 20.90 in heavy trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, said Friday it had received a letter from its Indonesian partner demanding a meeting before November 22 to resolve the dispute.
If Bre-X refuses or does not make an attempt to settle the argument, Krueng Gasui will sue, the letter said.
Bre-X said it has asked its lawyers to arrange a meeting.
"In my opinion, this (threat of a lawsuit) appears to be a last minute act of desperation," said gold analyst Chad Williams of Research Capital Corp.
"My question is, why have they waited so long? And why did they choose to do this in Canada?"
The dispute between Bre-X and Krueng Gasui, who is backed by Australia's Golden Valley Mines NL, became public at the beginning of October.
The argument prompted the Indonesian government to delay issuing vital contracts of work until the two parties worked out their difficulties.
Without the contracts, Bre-X cannot proceed with work on Busang and has had to stall its search for a major gold producer to operate or buy the discovery, analysts say.
"The key is how the Indonesian government will react" to the lawsuit, said Williams.
The threat of a lawsuit gives Bre-X a strong incentive to settle with Krueng Gasui and Indonesian businessman Jusuf Merukh, who controls Krueng Gasui, said gold analyst Catherine Gignac of Deacon Capital.
While most analysts said it was too early to tell whether the Indonesian case would stand up in Canadian court, they said the threat of a lawsuit will definitely force Bre-X to treat the claims more seriously.
"It reinforces the uncertainty with respect to Bre-X," said gold analyst John Ing of Maison Placements.
"My sense is this thing is not going away. This is more of a manoeuvring than an actual threat, but it does not look like this will end any time soon."
Krueng Gasui said in its letter that it will also sue the other Indonesian partners of Bre-X, some Bre-X officers and Canada's Minorca Resources Inc, which has a small stake in the discovery.
Minorca president Roland Horst said his company has no reason to be involved.
Exploration at Busang has outlined 47 million ounces of gold so far, and some analysts predict there could be up to 100 million ounces.
A stronger showing by Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's rightwing Civic Democratic Party in the first round of Senate elections may give a mild fillip to local financial markets, Czech analysts predicted.
But a thin turnout made it hard for the three-party coalition government, which lost its lower house majority in June, to claim it had recaptured voters' hearts, the analysts said.
"Nobody can jump to conclusions based on these figures, because if you take the total turnout, it's nothing," said Radek Maly, economist at Citibank Prague.
"We might see a mild strengthening of the crown, but we don't think any major movement," he added.
The currency has traded in a tight range recently at around 26.9 to the dollar and 17.8 to the mark or roughly 2.5 percent above parity with the central bank's mark/dollar basket.
But Maly stressed that the market was focused on macroeconomic fundamentals, not political influences.
Klaus's Civic Democratic Party won 36 percent of the nationwide vote on Saturday.
The centre-left opposition Social Democrats were second with 20 percent. The rest of the vote was thinly split among coalition parties and the Communists. Only 35 percent of the electorate voted.
Of the 81 Senate seats, Civic Democrats won three outright in the first round and 73 of their candidates go into next weekend's runoff as the top vote getter in their district.
The Civic Democrats took less that 30 percent of the vote in June's general elections, costing the coalition its majority in the lower house.
Miroslav Nosal, equities analyst at Prague investment house Patria Finance, said that a premature general election was probably not on the cards, and said the stock market had other concerns than party politics.
"Poor regulation and transparency is already included in the share prices, but from a fundamental point of view many stocks are quite attractive," said Nosal,
He said some foreign investors might be tempted to play on Klaus's victory early on Monday, but any gain based on the political situation would be short lived.
Two Germans, thought to be members of a Colombia leftist guerrilla group, were arrested in the northwest of the country early on Sunday as they tried to smuggle a kidnap victim out of the country, police said.
They were seized at Rionegro international airport, near Medellin, at 1 am local time (0600 GMT) as they tried to bundle a third German, Brigitte Schoene, the wife of a former BASF Chemicals director snatched on Aug. 15, on to a charter plane.
A list of 83 international guerrilla organisations together with a number of false passports were found in the bags of the two detainees -- a 54-year-old man and a 36-year-old woman -- police said.
"I would dare to say that these (German) citizens we captured are the international finance heads and advisers of the National Liberation Army (ELN)," Gen. Alfredo Salgado, head of the anti-kidnap police in nortwest Antioquia province, told reporters.
The ELN is Colombia's second largest rebel group. It is notorious for its attacks on oil infrastructure and on multi- national companies and their employees.
Gen. Salgado said the two Germans in initial questioning claimed they were carrying out an international peace mission and merely mediating the release of Schoene, seized from her home in Prados de Llanogrande, Antioquia, along with her five-year-old son and chauffeur. Both her son and the chauffeur were released hours after being snatched.
Salgado gave no details of the other guerrilla groups named in the documents seized from the couple and was unable to say if either had been linked to the German urban guerrilla groups of the 1970s.
The German Embassy in Bogota declined to comment on the arrests. Names found on the man's forged ID papers were Norbert Schroder, of Munich, and Jurgen Seidel. The woman's papers gave her name as Silvia Schroder and Isabel Seidel.
The man is also believed to have played a prominent role in the kidnap of a British, Danish and German engineer in Antioquia province earlier this year, Gov. Alvaro Uribe said. The release of the three in return for an undisclosed ransom, paid without the knowledge of the Colombian authorities, led to an angry exchange between Uribe and the German and British embassies.
In comments to reporters on Sunday, Uribe said he had spoken to Schone after her release and that she had confirmed she had been held by the ELN and complained of pyschological torture.
Colombia is the kidnap capital of the world with one person abducted every 2-1/2 hours, according to security experts. About half the kidnaps are attributed to the country's rebel armies.
China said on Sunday the United States was trying to contain it and that Washington needed to shift policies to improve ties.
In an attack aimed just days before the arrival of U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, China also accused the United States of being "self-righteous" and "alientating" in its foreign policy.
"Only when the United States drops the idea of (containing China), removes ideological bias against China and stops basing its foreign policies purely on its own economic interests can we expect significant progress in bilateral ties," said the Business Weekly.
Contrary to Washington's stated policy of maintaining contact with China, the United States was employing a strategy of containment based on a security defence chain linking South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and Thailand, said the newspaper, published by the official China Daily.
The newspaper was quoting Chen Bingcai, an economist at a think-tank linked to the State Planning Commission.
The U.S. secretary of state is scheduled to arrive in China on Tuesay in the first senior-level contact between the two nations since the re-election of U.S. President Bill Clinton.
It is part of an effort aimed at repairing relations strained by a series of disputes ranging from Taiwan to human rights to trade and arms proliferation.
The most serious damage to ties was inflicted when China held war games and unarmed missile tests off Taiwan early this year, prompting the U.S. to send two aircraft carrier groups near the island in a show of force.
Beijing has accused the U.S. in the past of pursuing a goal of containment, often linking Washington's policies to what it sees as a revival of Japanese militarism.
The newspaper also made the same policy connection, saying that although there had been fewer conflicts with Japan of late, Tokyo still needed to abandon this path.
China and Japan have been at loggerheads most recently over disputed East China Sea islands known in Chinese as the Diaoyus and in Japanese as the Senkakus.
An expanded U.S.-Japan security pact signed this year was in fact a cover for a resurgence of Japanese militarism, according to the newspaper.
Diplomats in Beijing said this was a theme heard most frequently from China's armed forces.
The newspaper quoted Chen as saying the United States, relying on its economic and military might, was becoming increasingly high handed in international affairs -- "and its own foreign policy has become extremely self-righteous and alienating".
Without a policy shift, the United States could be expected to continue blocking China's long-stalled entry into the World Trade Organisation and further turbulence was likely in trade and economic relations.
The newspaper said the U.S. needed to take into account cultural diferences in handling a range of disputes from the World Trade Organisation to human rights.
Shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa saw his fortunes almost dashed on the rocks in the 1980s when the family company met ill winds, but Beijing bailed him out and now he is poised to become Hong Kong's next leader.
Next month, China's carefully screened Selection Committee will choose a Chief Executive to run Hong Kong after Britain hands its last important colony back to Beijing in mid-1997.
Tung appears streets ahead of his rivals, having run away with 206 of the 400 votes in the first round of balloting on Friday.
Behind him were retired Chief Justice Yang Ti Liang, who scored 82 votes, and businessman Peter Woo, who clocked up 54.
In the public's eyes, Yang is slightly more popular than Tung, according to recent opinion polls.
Tung has been a senior member of a Preparatory Committee of pro-Beijing Hong Kong notables and mainland China officials, charged with crafting the power structures which will replace British colonial rule.
Tung was lauded as an impartial and honest counsellor by Governor Chris Patten when he stepped down in June this year from Patten's advisory cabinet, the Executive Council.
The shipping tycoon resigned in October as head of his family firm, Orient Overseas (International) Ltd, to make his leadership bid.
Tung's early campaigning consisted of clearing the decks of speculation that might lead to challenges on his integrity, such as how China had once saved his family from bankruptcy.
Tung took the helm of the business after his father died in 1979. He has publicly acknowledged that China had helped bail out the firm 11 years ago by backing a US$120 million investment fund for the firm, led by tycoon Henry Fok, a kingmaker in today's leadership contest. The family later bought back most of the company's shares and restored its control of the firm.
"In 1985 and '86 we went through a very difficult time when the shipping business was in serious recession. Henry Fok led a syndicate of investment in our company," Tung said.
"I know there were mainland funds in it. I'm sure. To Mr Fok and those who have helped me...I am very grateful."
Tung was spotted as a possible favourite of China when President Jiang Zemin singled him out for a personal handshake at a meeting in Beijing this year.
But Tung is believed to be acceptable also to Britain and to expatriate business leaders who hope he will form a "dream team" with incumbent Chief Secretary Anson Chan -- Hong Kong's top civil servant -- if China allows her to stay on after the flag change at midnight next June 30.
Tung has links with the powerful in key capitals -- Beijing, Taipei, London and Washington -- whose influence will be important for Hong Kong's evolution after 1997.
Born in Shanghai in 1937, Tung was educated at Liverpool University in Britain.
The 59-year-old tycoon who has previously dodged the limelight, is said to lead a disciplined life. He was known for arriving at his office at dawn to perform tai chi exercises on the roof before starting work.
Despite a reputation for modesty, wisdom and caution, and strong ties to China, Tung's local power base may ultimately stir some unease in Beijing. "It is hard to see Beijing favouring someone with a local power base, who really means to run the show," said legislator and lawyer Margaret Ng.
Tung has made a point of tapping various views, including those of pro-democracy parties and trade unions.
But he has also made increasingly strident pro-China policy utterances. He accused Patten of splitting Hong Kong's 6.3 million people through a speech that assailed China's plan to replace the elected legislature with an appointed assembly.
He has urged people to forget China's bloody army crackdown on the 1989 democracy movement in Beijing and to leave it to historians to judge the event.
American movies, hamburgers, jeans -- and U.S. bashing -- are all the rage in China today.
China and the United States have gone from confrontation in the 1950s and 1960s to odd bedfellows in the 1970s and 1980s to a love-hate relationship in the 1990s.
"More and more ordinary Chinese people are disgusted with the deeds of the United States," said Tang Zhenyu, one of five authors of "China Can Say No", a controversial bestseller which is capitalising on anti-U.S. sentiment.
For Tang, the fondness he once had for the United States ended in March when Washington sent aircraft carrier battle groups to waters near Taiwan where China was conducting war games and missile tests to cow the island into abandoning any dreams of independence.
"I believe this was the turning point for most ordinary Chinese people," Tang said in a recent interview.
Washington sent the warships in a show of force to support Taipei, Beijing's rival since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, as Taiwan held historic direct presidential elections.
For some Chinese, their American dream turned into a nightmare when Beijing lost its bid to host the 2000 Olympics in 1993. Many blamed Uncle Sam.
Anti-U.S. sentiment mounted after Chinese state media played up what was described as unfair and discriminatory treatment meted out to Chinese Olympians at the Atlanta Games.
"In the past, the United States had the wrong impression that the Chinese government was anti-U.S. while the people were pro-U.S.," said Wang Jisi, director of the Institute of American Studies of the prestigious Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
"China Can Say No" touched a sympathetic chord with many Chinese fed up with the United States.
It has chapters entitled "Burn Hollywood" and "If necessary, create another Saddam" in a reference to Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein.
"China Can Say No" sold so well that its authors have put out a sequel. It has given rise to a flurry of anti-U.S. books, including "Why Does China Say No?"
Beijing and Washington have also wrangled over human rights, arms proliferation and trade. The two giants narrowly avoided a bruising trade war in 1995 and again this year over U.S. charges that China condoned copyright piracy.
Many Chinese welcomed the re-election of U.S. President Bill Clinton this month as the return of a devil they knew and are hoping for a new post-election approach from Washington.
"Now, a good opportunity has presented itself for improving and expanding Sino-U.S. relations," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai said of Clinton's re-election.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher is scheduled to visit China next week to help push that process along. China last week blasted U.S. penalties against textiles ahead of Christopher's visit, but said the two sides had more in common than differences.
The Sino-U.S. honeymoon began in the 1970s when China's bamboo curtain came down and the country opened up to the West, triggering an influx of U.S. pop culture.
McDonald's is now a household word to many Chinese children and China's youth have traded yesterday's navy blue Mao suits for today's jeans.
U.S. blockbusters, such as "True Lies" starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and Tom Hanks' "Forrest Gump", have taken China by storm, raking in millions.
Beijing's honeymoon with Washington ended with the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Chinese military crackdown on a student-led drive for democracy in June 1989.
Sino-U.S. ties were dealt another jarring blow after the United States allowed a private visit by Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui in June 1995. Beijing regards Taiwan as a rebel province and has sought to push the island into isolation.
Sino-U.S. ties have improved since the March war games but China still suspects Washington is trying to contain it.
"The United States does not wish for the rise of a strong country which does not listen to it and does not do things according to its rules," said Wang of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
A decade ago, Chinese publishers were still putting type in place by hand, painstakingly selecting one character at a time from thousands of inky stereotypes.
Then in 1986, Wang Xuan, a professor of computer science at Beijing University, created a software programme to represent Chinese fonts on a computer.
Today, nearly all of China's newspapers are printed using Wang's Electronic Publishing System, a product of the Founder Group Corp that he helped the university launch.
"Our Chinese word processing software was far ahead of foreign products, that's why we took the leading market position at a stroke," Wang told Reuters in an interview.
From Founder's modest origins as a college department offshoot employing 20 workers, the firm now has 36 subsidiaries employing more than 1,000 people. It also has a listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange.
Founder's net assets totalled HK$494.9 million at the end of 1995 and the company posted net profit of HK$109 million last year on sales turnover of HK$1.1 billion.
Wang, the 59-year-old chairman of what has perhaps become one of China's most successful computer companies, predicted the firm would continue its strong performance as the domestic market expands and it finds new opportunities abroad.
The company's net profit in the first six months of this year rose a year-on-year 7.0 percent to HK$55.8 million and turnover shot up 27 percent to HK$590 million.
"I can confidently say that we will see an increase in both turnover and profit in 1996," Wang said.
Founder is China's fourth biggest manufacturer of personal computers but Wang says he plans to focus his energies on the more interesting -- and lucrative -- software business.
"Selling personal computers is all about sales technique," Wang said. "I get very excited about high-tech stuff, much more than business."
Founder had snared 78 percent of China's publishing software market as of August, up from 70 percent at the end of 1995, Wang said.
The company also boasted clients among Chinese newspapers in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia and North America, he said.
Founder's office automation products were gaining popularity among Chinese banks, government agencies and advertising firms, he said.
Wang has visited numerous companies abroad and said he was confident Founder would crack the Japanese market in two years and be a strong player in the international market within five years.
As part of Wang's drive to boost Founder's role overseas, the firm signed a pact last May to develop publishing solutions based on products and technology of U.S.-based Apple Computer Inc
Wang listed Founder in Hong Kong in December 1995. Beijing University still holds 56 percent of the company.
Initially offered at HK$1.98 a share, Founder's stock shot up to a high of HK$4.0 a share earlier this year though it has since fallen back. It ended at HK$3.15 on Friday.
Wang's market success has earned the slender, bespectacled entrepreneur comparisons at home to Microsoft's Bill Gates, a likeness Wang is happy to embrace.
But Wang insists similarities to the American software guru are limited.
"The difference is huge. Bill Gates is 40, I am almost 60. I am past my creative peak," Wang said.
The entrepreneur notes other differences.
Like many Chinese his age, Wang lived through the tumultuous early years after the communist revolution in 1949.
That included the disastrous Great Leap Forward  -- launched by Chairman Mao Zedong in the late 1950s to spur rapid development. Instead, it set China back for years and triggered famine that killed as many as 30 million people.
Wang was persecuted for listening to English radio broadcasts during the Cultural Revolution, a decade of political turmoil that began in 1966 to infuse the young communist state with renewed ideological vigour.
While the Microsoft mogul has amassed a personal fortune of billions of dollars, Wang receives a salary of about 10,000 yuan a month and holds no shares in the firm he heads.
"I'm easily satisfied," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan) ($1 = HK$7.8)
This month's Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit could see conflicting views between regional powers eager to boost free trade and a Chinese delegation more interested in soft loans, diplomats said.
While Pacific heavyweights such as the United States, Japan and Canada aimed to lower trade barriers between the region's markets, China was hoping to squeeze easy credit out of richer APEC members at the summit in the Philippines, they said.
"There's a fundamental tension between China on the one hand and most other APEC states on the other," said a Western diplomat in Beijing.
"Should (APEC) be directed toward the trade-investment liberalisation framework or should it be directed toward economic and technical cooperation?" asked the diplomat.
Analysts say the Subic summit would also give Chinese president Jiang Zemin a key opportunity to put his personal seal on a recent upturn in cross-Pacific ties at the first Sino-U.S. presidential meeting since 1995.
While the forum would provide the Chinese delegation with a welcome venue for private talks with the United States -- and possibly rival Taiwan -- Beijing would be less keen on the summit's avowed free trade agenda, the diplomats said.
China feared throwing open its doors to foreign competitors could devastate China's struggling state sector, raising the spectre of social unrest, the Western diplomat said.
"There is a fundamental contradiction between the imperatives of China's domestic situation and the free trade agenda," he said.
Access to its potentially vast markets would be the juicy carrot China dangled in front of other APEC members in exchange for promises of soft loans and technical assistance, he said.
"China... is hinting that APEC members should make a 'down payment'... on economic and technical cooperation, i.e. fork out some money," he said.
Beijing could be looking for the creation of a special APEC fund to assist the region's developing countries, he said.
The economic summit would also provide China's Jiang with a rare chance to rub shoulders with other world leaders and to boost the recent warming in Sino-U.S. ties long battered by disputes over trade, human rights and arms proliferation.
"The Chinese like to talk about the 'APEC style'...you shelve sensitive agendas and sensitive questions and you talk about them behind closed doors," the diplomat said.
Beijing could also use the meeting to quietly resume talks with its island arch-foe Taiwan, he said.
"It's an ideal opportunity for them to get together in circumstances where they've got a fairly good chance of...keeping news of it hush-hush," he said.
Other analysts said there was little chance of backroom talks between Beijing and Taipei officials because China was unlikely to soften its stance towards the island, which it has viewed as a rebel province since the end of civil war in 1949.
"I don't expect any breakthrough in Taiwan-China relations at the APEC meeting because the two sides set their own conditions, and very different ones, for resuming talks," said Chiu Chao-ling, a research fellow at Taiwan's Academia Sinica.
While other APEC members send heads of state to attend the forum, Taiwan, at the insistence of Beijing, has been allowed to send only low-ranking officials to lead its delegation.
Taipei wanted to crack open its diplomatic isolation at this year's summit by sending President Lee Teng-hui or vice-president Lien Chan, but host Manila rejected the move.
"It looks like Taiwan puts too much focus on its APEC representative, but not on what it can do as an APEC member," said Taiwan's Chiu. "We should play a more active role instead of asking only who can go to the meeting."
A fast-selling product that allows grannies all across America to exchange electronic mail securely with their families may become a key weapon in challenging the U.S. government's tight encryption policies.
Computer industry executives said the strong encryption which startup USWeb Networks is delivering on hundreds of thousands of television-based Internet browsing devices is still prohibited from export by U.S. Cold War munitions laws.
Executives at Palo Alto, Calif.-based WebTV said they chose to use the strongest coding standard available to give consumers the assurance their communications would be kept confidential.
"The only way we felt we could guarantee the level of security we felt was uncrackable by anyone...was if we were essentially using CIA-class security procedures," said Steve Perlman, co-founder and chief executive of WebTV Networks.
WebTV uses 128-bit encryption, based on coded 'keys' with 128 characters of information, the same level of coding used in some of the most secretive U.S. government communications.
"It's very similar to what they use when they're communicating with cruise missiles," Perlman said.
This is a useful fact to point out in reassuring potential customers they can both communicate and pay for goods and services securely over the Internet, he added.
"They love it. They really love it, beause now they can just relax and forget about it," he said. Using a credit card number over WebTV's encrypted communications is safer than reading it over a telephone, which can be tapped, he argues.
"While the FBI can get your credit card that way (over the telephone), they can't get it through WebTV," he said.
Perhaps equally excited about the decision by WebTV to use such strong encryption is the Silicon Valley high tech business community, which has been deadlocked in a battle with the Clinton administration over encryption restrictions.
Laws against the export of encryption date back to the start of the Cold War, when earlier versions of coding were considered vital to national security and were classified as munitions explicitly barred from export.
Top computer executives now say the use of encryption in relatively normal, consumer-oriented applications such as WebTV is a perfect example why they feel the government's efforts to restrict the technology should ultimately fail.
"Without commenting specifically on WebTV, I can tell you that the government is fighting essentially a losing battle here," said Eric Schmidt, chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems Inc.
"What's happened is that the technology is now so ubiquitous and there are so many people using it that the current law...really needs to be scrapped."
In addition to the need for U.S. businesses to have strong encryption to secure their own systems when operating overseas, the computer industry argues that competitors in other countries are being given an open market to sell higher levels of encryption U.S. companies are barred from selling.
But Washington insists that law enforcement authorities must have a means of breaking into encoded messages to investigate criminal activity.
The Administration recently offered a compromise where companies could export modestly strong 'keys,' less powerful than those used by WebTV, as long as they could be recovered by authorities to crack codes after obtaining a court warrant.
Industry is not pleased with the idea.
It would be difficult, and unduly expensive, to administer and is unlikely to be acceptable to foreign customers who might not consider the U.S. government to have a right to break into their confidential communications, many argue.
"Our personal view is that the notion of key recovery is something that's not going to be very acceptable, particularly to other countries -- the notion that the U.S. government would be able to recover the keys," said Deborah Triant, chief executive of Check Point Software Technologies, Inc.
In the meantime, however, WebTV will be prohibited except by special license from exporting its devices, which are being sold by consumer electronics manufacturers Sony Corp. and Philips Electronics NV through retail stores.
In fact, the issue came to light publicly following a letter from one of the manufacturers to its distributors, warning not to export the machines due to the munitions laws.
"It would definitely be unfortunate if sombedy was to carry one over the border," said Perlman, adding the WebTV boxes have more computing power than the world's most powerful supercomputer -- Cray Reasearch's XMP-48 -- did in 1987.
"That was a $50 million computer in 1987. This is a $300 computer and it outperforms the Cray," he said.
WebTV has attracted investments from Microsoft Corp. and a unit of US West Inc..
"This WebTV is the first of many we're going to see where legitimate customers really do need very strong encryption for things involving really normal day-to-day use," said Schmidt.
Even before the personal computer era's foremost figures donned togas and circus suits for the traditional extravaganzas of the industry's annual gala summit, industry titans were jockeying for the limelight.
Although the 25th anniversary of the microprocessor is among the high points of this year's show, the next 25 years of the industry are likely to prove even more fast-paced, and bitterly competitive, according to senior executives.
The week promises a flurry of new products -- and whole new categories of products ranging from hand-held Windows PCs to new species of the controversial new Network Computer to fast new computer modems and the launch of DVD, digital video disk.
The latter technology holds many times the amount of data available on the conventional CD-ROM devices which now come as standard on many desktops, and is likely to appear next year on machines ranging from laptops to home theatre televisions.
Not only will people be able to play full-length movies on their laptop devices, but the new medium is expected to unleash a whole new genre of computer games using sophisticated three dimensional animation and hot new 3-D computer chips.
Although the annual event is prone to hyperbole -- and it is expected to draw nearly a quarter of a million executives, analysts, customers and media people this year -- some high- profile executives believe the time has finally arrived for the long-heralded convergence of television, computers and telecommunications into one vast, interconnected business.
"I think this convergence is starting to redefine itself as collision," Carl Wankowski, president and chief operating officer of Sony Electronics Inc., the U.S. operating unit of Sony Corp. told Reuters on the eve of the show.
Sony expects to showcase a variety of products, including DVD technologies and its WebTV set-top box, which turns a television into a simplified Internet browsing device.
The opening keynote of the week-long event will be Intel Corp. Chief Executive Andy Grove, who under the theme "A Revolution in Progress," will trace the history of the microprocessor which turned Intel from a fledgling chip company into the world's largest semiconductor company.
Grove will also provide live demonstrations of how personal computers can already be used for sophisticated applications today for complex graphics displays. He will outline goals and challenges facing the PC industry over the next 15 years, with projections for the next quarter century.
On Tuesday, Microsoft Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Gates promises to issue a challenge to the industry in a keynote speech whose title harkens back to Gates' "Information at Your Fingertips" address here six years ago.
Gates, who recently republished his book, "The Road Ahead," in paperback, has said the industry is too optimistic about what it can produce within a short, two-year time frame, but far too pessimistic about what can be achieved in a decade.
Netscape Communications Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jim Barkesdale on Wednesday will make the third of a trio of keynotes that day, providing insight on how the pioneer of Web browsers sees competition moving to internal corporate networks based on Internet technology, known as intranets.
But the celebrations begin already on Sunday night, as International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus Development Corp. officially launches its SmartSuite 97 for Windows 95 and Windows NT at a lavish gathering to be followed by IBM's famous Toga Party.
Microsoft Corp. is due to unveil the Handheld PC (HPC) devices running its Windows CE consumer electronics version of its system at a Treasure Island Hotel bash complete with a Cirque du Soleil performance.
A handful of major computer companies, including Compaq Computer Corp., NEC Corp. and Hitachi Ltd., are due to unveil mobile Windows CE-based handheld devices.
On Monday, Microsoft is due to show off the master version of its lastest productivity suite Office 97, enabling a direct comparison between its offering and Smartsuite 97.
Apple Computer Inc., still seeking to recover from huge losses over the last year, is expected to counter the Windows CE launch with more industry-focused adaptations of its three-year-old Newton handheld technology.
The company may also seize the opportunity to provide more details of its future technology plans, as rumours continue to swirl over discussions it has had with startup Be Inc., which has been working on a speedy new operating system.
A stronger showing by Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's centre-right Civic Democratic Party in the first round of Senate elections may give a mild fillip to local financial markets, Czech analysts predicted.
But a thin turnout made it hard for the three-party coalition government, which lost its lower house majority in June, to claim it had recaptured voters' hearts, the analysts said.
"Nobody can jump to conclusions based on these figures, because if you take the total turnout, it's nothing," said Radek Maly, economist at Citibank Prague.
"We might see a mild strengthening of the crown, but we don't think any major movement," he added.
The currency has traded in a tight range recently at around 26.9 to the dollar and 17.8 to the mark or roughly 2.5 percent above parity with the central bank's mark/dollar basket.
But Maly stressed that the market was focused on macroeconomic fundamentals, not political influences.
Klaus's Civic Democratic Party won 36 percent of the nationwide vote on Saturday.
The centre-left opposition Social Democrats were second with 20 percent. The rest of the vote was thinly split among coalition parties and the Communists. Only 35 percent of the electorate voted.
Of the 81 Senate seats, Civic Democrats won three outright in the first round and 73 of their candidates go into next weekend's runoff as the top vote getter in their district.
The Civic Democrats took less that 30 percent of the vote in June's general elections, costing the coalition its majority in the lower house.
Miroslav Nosal, equities analyst at Prague investment house Patria Finance, said that a premature general election was probably not on the cards, and said the stock market had other concerns than party politics.
"Poor regulation and transparency is already included in the share prices, but from a fundamental point of view many stocks are quite attractive," said Nosal,
He said some foreign investors might be tempted to play on Klaus's victory early on Monday, but any gain based on the political situation would be short lived.
-- Prague newsroom  (42 2) 24 23 0003
British regional electricity company Northern Electric on Monday promised to rush out results by the end of November to prove that a $1.225 billion hostile bid from America's CE Electric undervalued it. But CE Electric said it still felt its 630 pence per share offer was full and fair, adding that there was "nothing in Northern Electric's defence document which changes our view."
In its first formal defence since CE Electric posted its bid on November 5, Northern said the half-year figures, previously scheduled for December 5, would include "important financial information" to show the value of the company. It reiterated its belief that the offer was too low and said that when CE Electric announced the bid at the end of October, it had suggested a price of 700 pence per share.
But CE Electric, which is 70 percent owned by U.S. energy group CalEnergy, denied this in a statement on Monday, saying: "This ambitious range was entirely the proposal of Northern Electric's board."
The U.S. group has already snapped up nearly 30 percent of its target, as Northern's shares were clouded by uncertainty over whether the government would approve the bid. Northern shares eased half a penny to 608-1/2 pence by 1543 GMT. Northern confirmed it planned to pay a 56.5 pence special dividend in February 1997 if CE Electric's offer lapsed and said that could mean the U.S. firm stood to reap gross yields of over 9.5 percent a year from its net investment. "Northern Electric is worth more to CE Electric," the company said in a statement. But CE Electric said the special dividend was "fully reflected" in the share price before the offer was launched. Northern chairman David Morris said the company believed that uncertainty as to whether CE Electric's bid would be referred to the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission) was dominating the market's reaction and keeping the share low. The British government has approved takeovers of seven of the original 12 cash-rich regional electricity companies (Recs) in two years, of which three were bought by U.S. companies. Only two bids for Recs have been blocked, when offers from generators National Power and PowerGen were deemed against the public interest by trade secretary Ian Lang. Northern itself is the only Rec to have survived a hostile bid, when it fended off Trafalgar House, now a unit of Kvaerner, with a 560 million pound ($934.2 million) benefit package last year.
Since Northern came under threat, East Midlands Electricity agreed to a 670 pence per share $2.15 billion takeover by Dominion Resources of the U.S. last week. Bid speculation has sparked price rises in other RECS, including Yorkshire Electricity.
A report in the Sunday Telegraph said Yorkshire was in talks with Entergy of the U.S., but both firms denied this on Monday.Shares in Yorkshire gained 12 pence to 747-1/2 pence while East Midlands slipped 2-1/2 pence to 623 pence. The market is worried that political pressures on the ruling Conservative government, which opinion polls put in second place before the general election less than six months away, might prompt it to block any more bids.
The electricity sector, privatised by the Conservatives in 1989, has proved unpopular due to high dividend payouts, hefty executive pay packets and head-turning takeover deals.
($1=.5994 Pound)
Britain's biggest builder Taylor Woodrow has finally got something to celebrate in 1996, its 75th anniversary year, reversing 1995's share slide to outpace the market and assuring investors that year results remain on track.
Colin Parsons, Taylor's chairman, told Reuters in an interview that the second half performance so far has been "exactly as we indicated in the half year statement," when he described the outlook as "encouraging."
Taylor's shares hit a high of 183 pence in September after those results, with profits up 81 percent at 25.4 million pounds ($42.37 million).
The shares have since edged off that five-year peak to 156 pence, but are still outperforming the Financial Times All Share index by 30 percent and the building and construction sector by 18 percent, according to Reuters Securities 3000 data.
The group has clawed its way back from a share price nadir of 53 pence in July 1991, in the depths of the building recession when the group's results slumped to a 66 million pounds loss.
Taylor Woodrow is probably most famous for its international contracting activities, with involvement in high-profile projects from the Channel Tunnel to the building of a light railway in Malaysia.
But contracting offers the lowest growth potential in future. Instead revenue growth will stem from housing and land development, property and the Greenham Trading unit in that order, with contracting lagging last.
Commenting on current trading,, Parsons said contracting remained very tough, citing in particular the expense of operating in the British Private Finance Initiative (PFI) market - aiming to get private money into public infrastructure projects.
"PFI remains a very expensive business - too expensive for an industry operating on a zero percent margin basis," he said.
The industry has often complained about the high bidding costs - sometimes running to millions of pounds and delays from red-tape adding to costs further. Parsons also says "It's not a question of allocating capital but whether we want to carry the risks associated with it."
Parsons says that does not mean Taylor Woodrow will bail out, but it will be selective. He adds that "overseas business is encouraging," however, offering higher-margin business.
Taylor Woodrow remains committed to its four-business strategy, with Parsons comparing it to "sitting on a chair instead of relying on the uncomfortable shooting stick of having one business. When the wind blows you know where you are on a chair."
He has refuted suggestions that it may bail out of constracting. But admits that money for acquisitions will be targeted at the other businesses.
Commenting on trading since the first half, Parsons said the UK housing market recovery "...has now spread into the new home market and is doing well in the second half. The first half was much slower."
"In Canada housing had a dreadful year in the worst market for 40 years, I believe."
"Australia seems to be one of the worst markets in living memory. It shows no improvement but it's happening at the same time as a relatively strong Australian economy.
He added "It will be well into next year before we see any improvement." The California and Florida markets were reported to be doing well, however.
The outlook for the group's results have brightened, with analysts' forecasts for pretax profits in the year ending 31 December 1996 seen at between 63 and 67 million, a rise of 41 percent on 1995 figures. For the year ending 1997, the forecasts range from 70 to 80 million, a rise of 16 percent.
Simon Brown, analyst at UBS said Taylor's performance turnaround was partly down to "swift and aggressive action to downsize contracting activities" into a single operation spanning Africa, Asia Pacific, Middle East and Europe.
"It's closed non-profit making areas and is now investing in areas where it can get a good return," he said. The residual contracting business remained a sound business.
UBS has the shares on hold. "It will move ahead but it will not outperform sharply," he said. ($1=.5994 Pound)
Disgruntled Czech opposition Social Democrats have blamed party chairman Milos Zeman for their poor showing in weekend elections for the country's new Senate.
They suggested that charges by Zeman ahead of the elections that intelligence agents had harassed himself and his mother had backfired on the party, which had been neck and neck with the ruling Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in most opinion polls.
In the event, the Social democrats won only 20.3 percent of the vote in first round voting held on Friday and Saturday. This compared with 36.5 percent for the ODS, led by conservative Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
While the ODS called a news conference on Monday to trumpet its dominant showing, leading Social Democrats went to ground after a weekend of squabbling over who was to blame.
Vasil Biben, Social Democrat candidate in the north Bohemian town of Trutnov, was blunt in his criticism of Zeman.
"The Social Democrats were were hurt by his pre-election excesses, thanks to which the party lost centre-left voters," the daily Mlada Fronta Dnes quoted Biben, who will fight a second round run-off this weekend, as saying.
Shortly before the polls Zeman alleged secret agents had tried to extract compromising information from his elderly mother.
Earlier he had caused uproar when he accused the state intelligence agency BIS of spying on him. But he failed to provide evidence to a parliamentary watchdog and earned a rebuke from President Vaclav Havel.
The Social Democrats divided roughly into those who back Zeman and those who support four rebel deputies who voted with Klaus's coalition in a parliamentary budget vote last month.
Low turnout also hit the centre-left party, which did so well in general parliamentary six months ago that Klaus's centre-right coalition lost its parliamentary majority.
Only 34 percent of the electorate bothered to vote for the newly-created Senate (upper house), which few Czechs seem to understand. But the pro-business ODS proved much better at getting its supporters out than the opposition.
The Social Democrats failed to win most votes in any constituency, although their candidates went through to the second round in 48 of the 81 constituencies by finishing second.
Afterwards Zeman blamed the rebels, who included one of his vice-chairmen, Karel Machovec, for the setback. The defection in early October triggered public squabbling between the party's right wing and former communist colleagues.
Zeman dismissed the row over the BIS as a factor, citing a poll taken before the spy scandal broke which showed a sharp drop in the willingness of Czechs to vote again so soon after general elections.
"When I analyse what happened, and see that this opinion poll preceded the BIS affair, then I can find only one cause and that is the budget vote," he said.
One Social democrat rebel, Jozef Wagner, described this as nonsense.
Wagner, who chairs the parliamentary budget committee, noted that the BIS affair had been broken not by Zeman but by Deputy Prime Minister Josef Lux, who leads the Christian Democrats, a junior partner in Klaus's coalition.
Wagner said the Social Democrats should have stayed quiet in the affair, which cost the job of the BIS acting director.
Czech equity and forex markets pushed higher on Monday, buoyed by a strong showing by Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's rightwing Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in the first round of Senate elections at the weekend.
But analysts warned profit taking and uncertainty leading up to a second round of voting this weekend will temper gains.
The Prague Stock Exchange, mired in a two-month long slump that has felled the bourse by some 16 percent, jumped 10.1 points, or 2.08 percent, at its daily price fixing to 496.8.
Brokers expressed muted optimism at the prospect that the rise was long-term, saying that domestic investors looking for a quick rise to profit from, and not key foreign investors were at the heart of the gain.
"There is very little foreign institutional buying as a result of the elections. It's mainly domestic buying. This was just the first round and the (vote) isn't won yet," said Jan Sykora of the brokerage Wood and Co.
Lubomir Vystavel of ING Barings added: "We had expected some speculation on the outcome of the elections.
Vystavel said the upsurge could continue into next week and beyond if ODS sustains its strong position in the second and final round next weekend, adding that the results may give cause for the long awaited rebound in Czech equities. "It is quite likely that this is the start of a trend," he said.
The crown also strengthened on the back of the election result, gaining around 0.3 percentage points to three percent above its dollar/mark basket in early trading, before settling at around +2.9 percent.
"Some of those who pushed the crown up in early dealing took profits, so its dropped slightly on the index," said Petr Korous, a trader at Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka.
"There will be some bias toward a stronger crown in the coming days but I don't think there will be any major move -- the majority of the move was seen already today," he added.
The central bank fixed the crown at 2.96 percent above the basket midpoint on Monday, after fixing it at +2.45 percent on Friday.
In what was billed as a key test of the minority coalition government, Klaus's ODS party took a commanding 36.47 percent of the first round vote, with the opposition Social Democrats (CSSD) trailing on 20.27 percent.
The result was a major improvement for the ODS, which won only 29.6 percent in elections to the lower house in June when a strong Social Democrat performance of 26.4 percent stripped Klaus's three-party coalition of its majority.
The rest of the vote was thinly split among coalition parties and the Communists.
The strong ODS showing was tempered though by poor turnout as only 35 percent of the electorate voted.
Of the 81 Senate seats, Civic Democrats won three outright in the first round and 76 of their candidates go into next weekend's runoff.
The CSSD meanwhile, will send only 48 candidates into the second round of voting slated for Friday afternoon and Saturday morning.
Intel Corp President and Chief Executive Andy Grove said on Monday that by the year 2011, microprocessors may be capable of holding one billion transistors and delivering 100,000 million instructions per second (MIPS).
Grove, delivering the opening keynote address at the personal computer industry's Comdex trade show celebrating the 25th anniversary of the first microprocessor, said such advances were possible withing current technological know-how.
Microprocessors are the semiconductors, invented by Intel engineers in 1971, that serve as the brains of PCs.  
Grove said that by 2011, the microprocessors the industry could be producting, given current understanding of the laws of physics, could run at 10 gigahertz, or four times the frequency of a microwave oven.
This is roughly 50 times the frequency of the current top-of-the-line microprocessors.
Speeds of 100,000 MIPS, a standard measure of computing power, would be 100,000 times the speed of Digital Equipment Corp's VAX 1180s, a line of refrigerator-size midrange computers popular in the 1980s.  
In a summary text of his speech issued in advance, Grove said the microprocessor of 1996 delivers 400 MIPS, running at a frequency of 200 megahertz (Mhz) with 5.5 million transistors. This, he noted, meets or exceeds a 1989 projection by Intel engineers of 100-MIPS machines at 150 Mhz.
The microprocessor of the year 2011 might fit on a die the size of a half dollar, or 1.8 inches, three times the current 0.6-inch die size, the Intel executive added.  
The line width resolution of computer microprocessors, which is critical to the ability to add transistors and power, may -- through projected improvements in photolithographic and process technology -- reach 0.07 micron, compared to 0.35 today.
But Grove also said the industry must be prepared to meet consumer expectations, including those formed over a half century by the medium of television.
"We are in competition for these consumers, for their dollars and their leisure time," he said in the summary text. "That competition is the TV."
He said TVs outnumber PCs worldwide by about three to one.  
"In this war, he who captures the most eyeballs wins," he said. "In our battle for eyeballs, user experience on the PC must not only meet the expectation levels set by TV viewing, it must exceed them."
Grove provided demonstrations of the concept of visual computing, one comparing 1992 technology with state-of-the-art technology today, and another showing the high-end Pentium Pro Processor at current performance levels and simulating what will be available in the year 2000.
In his address, Grove demonstrated how Starbucks Inc uses connected personal computers to enable its chief executive, Howard Shultz, to communicate directly with the company's remote store locations.
"We need to be relentless in our concern and efforts to grow the number of users and uses of our technology as we are in our efforts to develop and build the technology," he said.
"Just as we are investing in technology for the long term, we need to target the new users of the future today."
Mattel Inc president Jill Barad said the proposed acquisition of Tyco Toys Inc is not expected to face antitrust problems and should fuel earnings in the first year of the transaction.
"The market shares are still low even when you look at the category breakdowns," she said in a telephone interview.
Mattel, the nation's largest toymaker, earlier announced plans to buy third-place Tyco in a stock transaction valued at about $755 million. The combined market share of the companies would be less than 20 percent of the overall toy market.  
Barad said the deal includes a topping fee of $40 million, which would payable to Mattel if another company lured Tyco with a higher bid.  It also calls for a break-up fee of $15 million if the transaction were not completed within a year.
The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 1997.
Barad declined to specify anticipated cost savings associated with the transaction, saying "there are a lot and they cover many categories."  She also said it was too early to assess the potential impact of the deal on Tyco's workforce.  
Barad said she approached Tyco about a transaction on Sept. 29 in a solitary meeting with Tyco chief executive officer Gary Baughman.  Representatives of both companies met again on Oct. 14.
The proposed transaction would significantly boost Mattel's position in the boys' toy market - an area that it sought to expand earlier this year with an unsolicited bid for number two toymaker Hasbro.  However, Mattel was forced to withdraw that offer after its proposal ran into fierce opposition on antitrust grounds.
"We really believe that the boys' toy business is a very important one.  We have never had big market share in that category," Barad said.
Any overlap in specific markets is not expected to be large enough to create antitrust concerns, Barad said.
For example, she noted Mattel's Hot Wheels holds a nine percent market share position in the "wheels" toy category and Tyco holds a 10 percent stake with Matchbox.
"It's very fragmented," Barad said, adding that the wheels category will become even more crowded as Hasbro emerges with a new product line.
Landing fees at Hong Kong's new Chek Lap Kok airport must be competitively priced compared to other airports in the region, the chairman of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited Peter Sutch said.
Reports of fees double those at Kai Tak airport have already caused alarm among airlines and representative groups such as the Orient Airlines Association.
As one of the main users of the new airport, industry observers say Cathay managers are especially concerned about the level of the new fees which will heavily influence long term profitability.
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) Users' Group is one group closely watching the situation, Sutch noted at the ceremonial start of work on Cathay's new headquarters at the site of the new airport.
"As airlines compete against each other, so do airports such as Taipei, Singapore and Bangkok's new airport. It is important for the industry and the economy of Hong Kong that the airport is competitive for its users," Sutch said.
A spokesman for the Airport Authority, the body set up to manage Chek Lap Kok said the consultation process is still going on and the fee structure is expected to be revealed in the first or second quarter of next year.
Sutch said Cathay is considering raising passenger ticket prices and air cargo rates because of increased fuel costs.
"We are seriously considering reducing some of the increased fuel cost through higher ticket prices and cargo rates. As soon as a decision is made we will let you know," he said.
Airlines belonging to IATA agreed on Friday on a three per cent rise in air fares to cover higher fuel bills. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Cathay Pacific chairman Peter Sutch on Monday dug the first turf for the airline's new corporate headquarters in Hong Kong.
"This headquarters... is a firm, visible and concrete example of our commitment to Hong Kong," Sutch told guests and reporters at the huge airport construction site.
The US$448 million or HK$3.5 billion HQ at the territory's Chek Lap Kok airport will house almost all the airline's staff under one roof for the first time. Sutch described the new building as a very important stage in Cathay's 50 year history offering a "home from home" for more than 4,000 employees.
The move to th will open up many new commercial, business and marketing opportunities.
Hank Townsend, chief executive officer of the Hong Kong Airport Authority, the body set up to run the new airport assisted at the ceremony.
"We wish you success, luck and great prosperity in the future and welcome you as one of the family, as one of the tenants here at Chek Lap Kok," Townsend said.
The one million square foot complex, being built by Dragages et Travaux Publics (HK) Ltd, part of the French Bouygues Group, includes a 10 storey office block, a 23 storey staff hotel with 350 rooms and a leisure area.
Cathay hopes for savings and improvements in efficiency by not having its staff and 30 department offices spread aronnd Hong Kong. Managers hope to overcome staff concerns about commuting time to the new airport site on Lantau island.
The new airport is due to open in April 1998, and Cathay said its new HQ is due to be completed in August 1998.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Hong Kong is among the world's most efficient economies but its continued success as a global financial centre and entrepot is far from certain, Harvard-based economic adviser professor Jeffrey Sachs said on Monday.
Uncertainty associated with the British colony's return to Chinese rule next year could compromise Hong Kong's leading position as the world's most competitive economy behind Singapore, said Sachs, whose Harvard Institute of International Development produced the Global Competitiveness Report 1996.
"I'm not predicting doom and gloom," Sachs, an adviser on economic reform to governments around the world, told reporters at the World Economic Forum in Hong Kong.
"I'm just saying that if you want to maintain a high-precision, finely-honed, world-class financial and trading centre such as this there isn't that much room for playing around."
Hong Kong will continue to flourish past the transition only if the rule of law is strictly observed, media freedoms are upheld and the economy remains completely open, he said.
But only time will tell whether the commercial underpinnings of Hong Kong's successful, highly-complex and capitalist economy will be maintained, he said.
"After Chinese sovereignty comes in July 1997 we're going to see whether the judicial system remains independent, whether the media remain free, whether there's ample opportunity for the full flow of financial and economic and political information that is vital for an entrepot of this kind," he said.
Sachs also adopted a cautious view of China's economic promise, warning that its economic institutions need drastic overhaul in order to maintain high rates of economic growth beyond the short-term.
"These institutions are not good enough to carry China toward long-term growth. China's dynamism now is undoubted and it's not going to come klunking to a halt, but it's based on the fact the starting point is so low," Sachs said.
Cheap labour, low taxation and access to foreign exchange along China's coastal regions have fuelled the world's most impressive exports boom, Sachs said. But in order for that momentum to be maintained, China must clarify property rights, develop financial markets and establish legal certainty.
"The Chinese government is going to have to run very fast and keep very clear sights on its goals in order ... for institutional change to keep up so that the goal of high growth can be sustained in the future," Sachs said.
A major obstacle to long-term success is the state enterprise sector, which employs 20 percent of the population. While it is not sufficiently large to submerge the entire economy, the state enterprise sector is a definite drag on the economy and poses a risk to the entire financial system, Sachs said.
Sachs lauded China's efforts so far to privatise businesses at the local and regional levels.
"Parts of China are reforming from the bottom up with local and regional governments making experiments in privatisation that can be models for the rest of China," he said.
China has sent mixed signals to the United States before the visit by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, combining toughness with conciliation on a range of issues that have tangled Sino-American ties.
But diplomats said on Monday the highest level visit by a U.S. official in two years is unlikely to stumble over any of the key hurdles in its path as the two sides focus on repairing past damage.
"Both sides seem to be eager to put the relationship back on track," said a Beijing-based diplomat. "The relationship is just too important."
China and the United States have seen ties strained by a series of disputes, including human rights, arms proliferation, Taiwan and trade.
Christopher's visit is likely to be the first in a series of top contacts in the months ahead aimed at keeping those conflicts from boiling over.
Clinton will confer with President Jiang Zemin in Manila on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit this month and plans are under discussion for an exchange of visits between the two leaders over 1997 and possibly 1998.
Vice-President Al Gore may also visit China in the first half of next year.
Both sides' eagerness to get their relationship moving forward again has still left plenty of room to manoeuvre.
"China has sent mixed signals to create an atmosphere of uncertainty," said another Beijing-based diplomat. "That should put some pressure on the U.S. for some concessions."
A key area of disagreement has been human rights where Beijing has publicly thumbed its nose at Washington by turning down the appeal of dissident Wang Dan and upholding his 11-year sentence for subversion.
But Beijing has also released dissident Chen Ziming, one of the so-called "black hands" behind the 1989 student movement for democracy. It made its move just as President Bill Clinton won re-election in what was widely seen as a gesture of goodwill.
Human rights marred Christopher's last visit in 1994. Leading dissident Wei Jingsheng was detained after meeting Assistant Secretary of State John Shattuck, the top U.S. policy maker on human rights.
Shattuck will accompany Christopher on this visit but there are no plans to meet pro-democracy activists this time.
China has tried to keep the United States off balance with other seemingly conflicting policy statements. It lashed out at Washington on Sunday, saying it was trying to contain Beijing by forming a defence chain linking other Asian states, notably Japan.
It also wagged a finger at the United States for blocking China's entry into the World Trade Organisation and called U.S. policy "self-righteous" and "alienating".
And on Monday, Beijing said it supported the candidacy of United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali for a second term, a move publicly opposed by Washington.
These followed largely upbeat statements after Clinton's re-election, suggesting that Beijing was willing to work with the U.S. administration.
Diplomats said that Taiwan would be raised in Christopher's discussions with Chinese leaders, although it would not be the burning issue it was earlier this year. In March, China conducted war games off the island's coast and Washington sent warships there in a show of force.
The United States was also expected to bring up the return of Hong Kong to Chinese rule in mid-1997, making its case that a smooth transfer of power in the British colony was in the interests of all parties concerned.
China's soaring demand for computer chips is expected to fuel strong growth in a domestic semiconductor industry that has long lagged behind its Asian neighbours, industry and government officials said on Monday.
Beijing hoped to boost the output of advanced integrated circuits (ICs), despite complaints that import tariffs and U.S. technology export restrictions made some vital equipment difficult to obtain, they said.
"In recent years the industry has grown fast," said Yu Zhongyu, chief engineer of the Ministry of Electronics Industry. "In the next five years it will grow even faster."
Chip production had been identified by Beijing as the first priority of the electronics industry, Yu told Reuters at an industry conference in the Chinese capital.
Demand for ICs would continue to be pushed by China's growing hunger for consumer electronics and telecommunications, with personal computers expected to become a major future source of demand, he said.
The value of China's IC output soared to $550 million in 1995 from $400 million the year before, but production was just one-fifth of demand, said industry group Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI).
China was expected to produce 700 million chips a year by 2000, up from 330 million in 1995, SEMI officials said.
The value of equipment imports for the plants needed to make chips was expected to soar to about $700 million in 1997 from an estimated $500 million this year, they said.
China was pulling itself out of a semiconductor swamp created by its attempts during the 1980s to set up small-scale producers around the country, said an official of one U.S. company that supplies semiconductor production equipment.
Beijing was now promoting larger, more advanced fabs, or IC plants, that could match international standards, said the official, who declined to be identified.
"They have made up their mind that they are going to go for it...and believe me, the market is big," he said.
Yu said Beijing had decided to build 0.5 micron ICs at the Huahong Microelectronics Ltd in Shanghai as part of moves to develop China's ability to make sophisticated small chips.
Other sub-micron plants were being built or expanded in cooperation with foreign firms, such as Mitsubishi Stone IC Co, a joint venture between China's Stone Group and Mitsubishi Electric and Mitsui &amp; Co Ltd of Japan, he said.
The $1.6 billion Mitsubishi Stone venture was announced in March, with a $100 million 0.35 micron IC fab to be launched next year.
South Korean chipmaker Samsung Electronics Co, which opened a $100 million semiconducter plant in the eastern province of Jiangsu in July, has said it expects the Chinese market to grow an average annual 26 percent until 1999.
Difficulties in importing production equipment were a major obstacle to China's creation of a semiconductor industry that could compete with neighbouring powerhouses such as South Korea and Japan, industry analysts at the conference said.
"China's increased import tariffs and U.S. restrictions on technology exports are the biggest problems," said one analyst. "Companies say they can't bring in the equipment they need."
Hewlett-Packard Co. unveiled a new plan Monday to boost sales of computer encoding technology, considered a key component of global communications and the development of commerce over the Internet.
The plan is intended to foster the growth of online commerce worldwide while still abiding by strict U.S. export laws limiting the sale of encryption products abroad.
Sales of goods and services over the Internet are booming but still lag well behind traditional sales by telephone or in person. Some businesses say that consumers are nervous about sending credit card numbers or other sensitive information over the Internet, where it could be intercepted by criminals.
Encryption scrambles information, such as a credit card number, while in transit so that it can be read only by the intended recipient using a password or a software "key."
"The bad news is that, unless you encrypt your information, it's very easy for electronic eavesdroppers to have a look at what you're transmitting," said Brad Silverberg, senior vice president at Microsoft Corp., a Hewlett-Packard partner in the new encryption framework.
The Hewlett-Packard plan is "the first government-approved encryption framework removing a significant barrier to making the Internet secure for business transactions and electronic communications," company Chief Executive Officer Lewis Platt told a news conference in Washington.
Intel Corp., another partner in the effort, said it plans to incorporate encryption into its market-leading computer hardware products.
Federal export laws prohibit the sale of strong encryption technology outside the United States. Last week, President Clinton signed an executive order liberalising but not eliminating the export rules.
Companies will be allowed to sell products with strong, built-in encryption features but only if the products also contain a feature that allows the government to break the codes when acting under a court order or similiar authority.
The administration said law enforcement authorities need the ability to decode messages by having access to the software keys, a system called key recovery or key escrow, in order to keep tabs on criminals and terrorists.
Under the Hewlett-Packard framework, powerful encryption features in a new computer or software could be automatically disabled if the product is sold abroad and does not permit government decoding.
That may not be enough to satisfy those opposed to the administration's policy, including some businesses and civil libertarians.
"It's not a solution for us," said Shari Steele, staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group that focuses on cyberspace issues. She said people should have the right to use encryption free of government-mandated escrow.
"The government is just strong-arming some companies by saying if you want to use strong encryption at all, you have to have key escrow," Steele said.
McDonnell Douglas Corp. stock tumbled Monday after the Defence Department eliminated the company from the race to build a new generation fighter jet that eventually could be worth $200 billion or more.
The decision was a blow to McDonnell Douglas, the nation's second-largest defence contractor and a long-time leader in fighter jets, and could force it to restructure, seek a merger or become more acquisition-minded, industry analysts said.
The Pentagon on Saturday awarded four-year contracts to Boeing Co. and Lockheed Martin Corp. to develop prototype fighter jets for the early 21st century for the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps and the British Royal Navy.
British and U.S. forces have announced plans to buy 3,000 of the joint strike fighter jets, with initial delivery scheduled for 2008.
With potential export sales of another 2,000 jets and additional funding for development and support, the programme could be worth $200 billion to $500 billion over the coming decades, industry executives said.
McDonnell Douglas stock lost $4.25 to close at $52.50 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was one of the biggest losers of the day. Boeing rose $1.50 to $93.25 and Lockheed Martin rose $1.875 to $95.625, also on the NYSE.
John Modzelewski, an analyst at PaineWebber, said the decision could force St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas to seek acquisitions more aggressively to help build its business, or into a merger with another defence or aerospace company.
"Everything's back on the table," Modzelewski said.
In the past year, McDonnell Douglas has been the subject of rumoured talks with Boeing, Rockwell International Corp. and Raytheon Co..
McDonnell Douglas has declined to comment on potential mergers and acquisitions. "We have said we will look at mergers, acquisitions and partnerships that will grow our business," a company spokesman said.
"This will be something of a wakeup call," CS First Boston analyst Peter Aseritis said. "It's a fairly sharp and dramatic blow to McDonnell Douglas and I would venture to guess one they probably didn't see coming."
PaineWebber's Modzelewski said, "Without having the internal growth such as joint strike fighter would give them, they're going to have to grow through acquisition." That could include Texas Instruments Inc.'s defence electronics business, which is for sale, according to published reports.
McDonnell Douglas Chief Executive Harry Stonecipher said on Saturday the loss was a surprise to the company.
"Certainly in terms of the overall future, 10 years and beyond, it is a significant programme to us," Stonecipher said.
But in a statement to employees Monday, Stonecipher noted the company's backlog of aircraft orders to the military at home and abroad and said it was pursuing other orders. The company has a $46 billion order backlog, a spokesman said.
"This decision does not mean we are out of the military aircraft business," Stonecipher said.
McDonnell currently builds the Air Force F-15 fighter and the Navy-Marine F-18E/F as well as the C-17 military cargo plane. Both the F-15 and the F-18 are to be replaced by the joint strike fighter in the next century.
PaineWebber's Modzelewski said McDonnell Douglas was likely to participate in the new jet fighter programme as a subcontractor, as politics will force the wealth to be spread.
But despite its key role providing fighter jets for decades, the based company has failed to win a major role in any of the next generation of tactical aircraft.
Already the smallest of the three major commercial jet makers, McDonnell said last month it would not continue to compete against Boeing and Europe's Airbus Industrie in the market for the biggest commercial jetliners.
Mattel Inc., seeking to expand in the market for boys' toys, agreed to buy third-ranked Tyco Toys Inc. for $755 million, the companies said Monday.
The proposed union will combine Mattel's Barbie dolls, Hot Wheels miniature cars and Fisher-Price toys with Tyco's Matchbox cars, Sesame Street toys and radio-controlled vehicles.
"We really believe that the boys' toy business is a very important one. We have never had big market share in that category," Mattel President Jill Barad said in a telephone interview.
Under the agreement, Tyco shareholders will receive Mattel stock valued at $12.50 per Tyco share, representing a 78 percent premium above Friday's closing price for Tyco stock.
Shares of Tyco jumped $4.50 to $11.50, while Mattel fell 75 cents to $29.875, both on the New York Stock Exchange.
The proposed transaction follows Mattel's unsuccessful effort earlier this year to acquire No. 2 rival Hasbro Inc. Mattel, the nation's largest toymaker, was forced to withdraw its unwelcome bid due to widespread concern about its effect on competition.
Mattel said the Tyco transaction was expected to be completed in the fist half of 1997 and would add to its earnings in the first year. The boards of both companies have approved the merger.
The proposed transaction followed discussions that began with a Sept. 29 meeting between Barad and Tyco Chief Executive Officer Gary Baughman. Representatives of both companies met again on Oct. 14.
Industry experts said the proposed acquisition will accomplish many of the same goals for Mattel as the failed Hasbro transaction.
"It's been something they have been trying to do for years and years," said Smith Barney analyst Jill Krutick of Mattel's desire to boost its presence in boys' markets.
"The outstanding worldwide potential for Tyco's well-known brands will be fully realised through this merger with Mattel," Mattel Chairman John Amerman said in a statement.
Although the union will combine two of the nation's biggest toymakers, Barad said antitrust issues were not expected to be significant. She noted that the combined companies will hold less than 20 percent market share in the highly fragmented industry.
"The market shares are still low even when you look at the category breakdowns," she said in a telephone interview.
Tyco, based in Mt. Laurel, N.J., had 1995 revenues of $709 million. Mattel, based in El Segundo, Calif., had 1995 sales $3.6 billion. No. 2 toy maker Hasbro had 1995 sales of $2.8 billion.
But some analysts cited concern about antitrust implications, citing potential market overlap of Mattel's Hot Wheels and Tyco's Matchbox units, two leading miniature car brands.
"I think it's going to be a long process in getting the OK of regulators. After the Hasbro debacle, anything Mattel does at this point will be looked at by the regulators," said one analyst who did not want to be identified.
For money-losing Tyco, the acquisition will represent the culmination of its turnaround efforts. The toymaker last year cut 10 percent of its work force as part of a restructuring aimed at returning to profitability.
With its deep pockets, leading market presence and long global reach, Mattel would easily capitalise on Tyco's products, analysts said.
"Mattel clearly has ways to enhance the revenue growth of Tyco and expand it internationally. Mattel is getting into a fairly cleaned-up situation," Smith Barney's Krutick said.
The proposed combination will also strengthen Mattel's position in plush toys, where Tyco is a market leader.
Barad said the deal includes a fee of $40 million that would be payable to Mattel if another company lured Tyco with a higher bid. It also calls for a break-up fee of $15 million if the transaction is not completed within a year.
Barad declined to specify anticipated cost savings associated with the deal, saying, "There are a lot and they cover many categories." She also said it was too early to assess the potential impact of the deal on Tyco's work force.
Intel Corp. President Andrew Grove said the $400 billion personal computer industry must serve up more than just television-like features to impress its most demanding customers: 10-year-old kids.
In an opening speech at the Comdex trade show in which he hailed the 25th anniversary of the microprocessor which Intel invented, Grove demonstrated how PCs with his company's next-generation microchips will be able to deliver full-screen video with theater-like, surround-sound stereo.
But, he said, this would only bring the PC to parity with the television as an entertainment device.
The industry must focus on satisfying "our most demanding users: 10-year-old kids," he said.
Using Intel chips and graphics technology from Salt Lake City-based Evans &amp; Southerland Computer Co., Grove demonstrated how graphics could improve by the year 2000 to provide a more lifelike "flythrough" down a quiet English village street.
Demonstrating Intel's renewed emphasis on increasing consumer use of products based on its chips and technologies, Grove said the entire industry needs to focus on satisfying customers with aggressive output of new products.
"My fear is that some day that (product) cycle might sputter," he told reporters after his address. The industry should aim to grow by 15 percent to 17 percent a year, as it has for the last decade or more, he said.
"Just as we are investing in technology for the long term, we need to target the new users of the future today."
This is particularly important as the cost of building a semiconductor plant has risen dramatically from $3 million in 1973 to $2.5 billion for its latest plant and will reach as much as $10 billion entering the next millennium.
Grove said the industry must be prepared to meet consumers' expectations, including those formed over a half century during which the television defined visual experience.
"We are in competition for these consumers, for their dollars and their leisure time," he said, arguing that time especially was a "finite" commodity and computers needed to compete with TV for consumer share.
Grove said there are only about one-third as many personal computers as TVs installed worldwide, even though the numbers of PCs sold annually is starting to outpace the number of new televisions sold on a worldwide basis.
"In this war, he who captures the most eyeballs wins," he said. "In our battle for eyeballs, user experience on the PC must not only meet the expectation levels set by TV viewing, it must exceed them."
Grove projected that microprocessors could by the year 2011 be capable of holding 1 billion transistors and deliver 100,000 million instructions per second, or MIPS.
Grove said these advances are possible with current technology. Microprocessors are the semiconductors, invented by Intel engineers in 1971, which serve as the brains of personal computers.
Forget about the pink Porsche. Barbie soon may have a whole fleet of cars at her disposal.
Seeking to expand in the market for boys toys, Mattel Inc said Monday it will buy third-ranked Tyco Toys Inc in a $755 million union that will wed the makers of Barbie dolls and Matchbox cars.
The move is considered hugely significant for top toymaker Mattel, which earlier this year pursued Hasbro Inc for similar reasons. Mattel was forced to drop its unsolicited Hasbro offer due to concerns about antitrust implications associated with joining the nation's top two toymakers.
Industry experts said the proposed acquisition will accomplish many of the same goals as the failed Hasbro transaction.
"Its been something they have been trying to do for years and years," said Smith Barney analyst Jill Krutick of Mattel's desire to boost its presence in boys' markets.
The proposed union will combine Mattel's highly successful product line, which includes Barbie, Hot Wheels and Fisher-Price, with Tyco's Matchbox, Sesame Street toys and radio control vehicles.
Shares of Tyco jumped 4-3/8 to 11-3/8 in afternoon trading. The stock transaction values shares of Tyco at about $12.50 each.
For money-losing Tyco, the acquisition will represent the culmination of its turnaround efforts. The toymaker last year cut 10 percent of its work force as part of a restructuring aimed at returning to profitability.
With its deep pockets, leading market presence and long global reach, Mattel is likely to easily capitalize on Tyco's products, analysts said.
"Mattel clearly has ways to enhance the revenue growth of Tyco and expand it internationally. Mattel is getting into a fairly cleaned-up situation," Krutick said.
But some analysts cited concern about potential antitrust implications, even though Tyco holds a far smaller market presence than Hasbro. They specifically cited potential market overlap of Mattel's Hot Wheels and Tyco's Matchbox units.
"I think it's going to be a long process in getting the OK of regulators. After the Hasbro debacle, anything Mattel does at this point will be looked at by the regulators," said one analyst who did not want to be identified.
In a telephone interview with Reuters, Mattel president Jill Barad said antitrust concerns are not expected to be an overwhelming issue in the transaction. She noted that the combined companies will still hold less than 20 percent market share in the highly-fragmented industry.
The proposed combination will also strengthen Mattel's position in plush toys, where Tyco is a market leader.
International Business Machines Corp's Lotus Development Corp unveiled the company's next productivity suite, SmartSuite 97, and said the product will begin shipping in January.
Lotus President Jeff Papows said on Sunday night the company will continue to add Internet functionality, with a further upgrade planned in the first quarter of 1998.
He took a shot across the bow of Netscape Communications Corp's aspirations in challenging Lotus's share of the corporate marketplace.
"If they thought the browser war was bloody, just wait," he said of Netscape's ambition to expand its role in supplying corporate internal networks, or intranets.
"This will be a whole new level of bloodiness," he told reporters after the launch of the new SmartSuite package on the eve of the Comdex annual computer show here, the largest industry trade gathering in the United States.
Lotus executives made clear Lotus plans to continue building new features into its applications suite, while undercutting the prices charged by market leader Microsoft Corp, which dominates the market with nearly 70 percent share.
Although the new Lotus SmartSuite carries an estimated retail price of $399, current Lotus applications users, or those using competing products, may upgrade for just $149.
Those buying the current SmartSuite edition through year-end 1996 will receive a free upgrade and a $50 rebate, bringing the effective price to $99.
Users of certain recent Corel applications packages will be allowed to trade these in for a free CD upgrade to the current SmartSuite for Windows 95 or Windows 3.1 by year-end.
Papows cited a 1996 International Data Corp survey showing the size of the suite application market growing from around $4.4 billion in 1997 to around $6 billion by the year 2000.
Lotus achieved a 26.3 percent share of unit volume in the third quarter, according to IDC data, and has benefited from nine million units sold through computer makers worldwide in the first year of its preloading program.
Online registrations in this program have been rising 600 percent quarter over quarter this year, and retail sales have soared 65 percent, the Lotus executive said.
Lotus aims to differentiate its productivity suite by providing the ability to easily find, share and collaborate, as well as publish, using Internet technology.
SmartSuite 97 works on Microsoft's 32-bit Windows 95 and Windows NT 4.0 operating systems, and permits users to drag and drop Internet information for use on the desktop, dynamically update spreadsheets and conduct searches over the Web.
Lotus product managers also gave previews of Lotus Components for the Internet "applet," due to be released in 1997, to create spreadsheets, charts and diagrams within applications. An applet is a small program, written in the Java environment developed by Sun Microsystems Inc.
Lotus said it currently has some 300 to 400 programmers working in Java -- roughly equivalent to the numbers that Sun's JavaSoft unit itself has had, although Sun now plans to accelerate its number of Java programmers to around 700.
-- Silicon Valley Bureau "1 415 846 5400
British regional electricity company Northern Electric said on Monday it would rush out results by the end of November to show that a $1.225 billion bid from CE Electric of the U.S. was inadequate.
In its first formal defence since CE Electric posted its bid on November 5, Northern said the half-year figures, previously scheduled for December 5, would include "important financial information" to show the value of the company.
It reiterated its belief that the 630 pence per share CE offer was too low and "below even the lowest price put...by the bidder prior to the launch of its hostile offer."
Northern said when the bid was announced at the end of October that CE Electric, which is 70 percent owned by U.S. energy group CalEnergy, had suggested a price of 700 pence per share, a claim that the Americans have denied.
CE Electric made no immediate comment on Northern's latest statement.
The U.S. group has already snapped up nearly 30 percent of its target, as its shares have been clouded by uncertainty over whether the government will approve the bid. Northern shares were up just a penny by 1310 GMT to 610 pence.
The company reiterated plans to pay a 56.5 pence special dividend in February 1997 if CE Electric's offer lapsed and said that could mean the U.S. firm stood to reap gross yields of over 9.5 percent a year from its net investment.
"Northern Electric is worth more to CE Electric," the company said in a statement.
Chairman David Morris added that the company "believes that uncertainty as to whether CE Electric's bid will be referred to the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission) is currently dominating the market's reaction," which is keeping shares low.
So far, the government has approved takeovers of seven of the original 12 cash-rich regional electricity companies (recs) in under two years, three of which have been bought by U.S. companies.
Only two bids for recs have been blocked, when offers from generators National Power and PowerGen were deemed against the public interest in a surprise decision by trade secretary Ian Lang.
Northern itself is the only rec to survive a hostile bid, when it fended off Trafalgar House, now a unit of Kvaerner, with a 560 million pound ($934.2 million) benefit package last year.
Since Northern came under threat, East Midlands Electricity has agreed to a 670 pence per share $2.15 billion takeover by Dominion Resources of the U.S.
Yorkshire Electricity, one of the three remaining recs untouched by bids so far, denied on Monday a report in the Sunday Telegraph that it was in talks with Entergy of the U.S., a report also denied by Enetergy.
Shares in Yorkshire gained 12 pence to 746-1/4 pence while East Midlands slipped four pence to 620 pence.
The market is now worried that political pressures on the Conservative government, in second place in opinion polls ahead of a general election which is expected within six months, might prompt it to block any more bids.
The sector, privatised by the Conservatives in 1989, has reaped unpopularity for high dividend payouts, hefty executive pay packets and head-turning takeover deals.
"We believe this bid should be decided on value and...(call) for a rapid end to this period of regulatory uncertainty," Northern's chairman David Morris said in a statement.
($1=.5994 Pound)
NatWest Markets, the investment banking arm of National Westminster Bank, on Monday named Peter Hall as the man to run its expanding operations but other questions over the bank's strategy remained, analysts said.
NatWest said Hall, who currently runs its American operations, would take over as chief operating officer of the investment bank, reporting to chief executive Martin Owen.
At the same time, NatWest Markets said it would streamline origination and distribution functions into one Global Financial Markets division from the current capital markets and treasury divisions.
NatWest said no job losses would result from the consolidation.
The bank has been on the acquisition trail recently, buying corporate finance boutique J O Hambro Magan in October, spending $590 million on U.S. primary dealer Greenwich Capital and 472 million pounds on Gartmore, the British fund manager. It also acquired U.S. merger and acquisitions specialist Gleacher for $135 million.
But analysts have expressed concern that NatWest will find it difficult to bring these all together, despite the fact that the businesses seem to compliment each other.
Some feel that NatWest is spending large amounts of cash on buying businesses that could be near the top of their business cycle.
"The NatWest markets business is robust and it can make returns while it is still building," said one analyst. "But a revenue downturn will tend to hit the players who are building rather than those who are already established."
Currently, investment banks are enjoying generally the low-inflation, steady growth conditions seen in many major economies with an accompanying healthy amount of mergers and acquisitions activity.
But a substantial downturn on Wall Street, predicted by many strategists, could leave some high-cost acquisitions looking a little less appetizing, analysts say.
Owen said the fast growth of NatWest markets, both organically and by acquisition, had led him to the conclusion that the day-to-day operational management should be separated from strategy, client development and financial supervision.
"As President and COO, Peter will be charged with implementing our operational plan, leaving me more time to work with global product heads to shape our strategies," Owen said.
Analysts were happy that NatWest had brought an insider to the job.
"Sometimes it gets difficult to keep continuity and things can start to fall apart," said one analyst. "I would class this appointment as continuity, so that's good."
The Internet continued to grow in leaps and bounds this year while online services found it much harder to add new customers, a new survey says.
An estimated 35 million adults in the United States had used the Internet, according to the poll by Louis Harris and Associates conducted in late September, up from 27 million at the beginning of the year.
"Although the number of people who use computers has fluctuated around just over half of the adult population, the number of adult Americans using computers for cyber-activities is growing," said Humphrey Taylor, chairman of the polling organisation.
While online services like America Online Inc. and Compuserve Corp. could lay claim to almost 41 million subscribers, that was the same level Harris found back in January.
Online services, which provide private online content in addition to Internet access, have faced greater competition this year from companies like AT&amp;T Corp., which provide cheaper Internet-only access.
Businesses, which are looking to the Internet as a potential source of new revenue, are intensely interested in figures on its usage. Differing surveys have come up with widely varying numbers.
The Harris poll found that, although more people are getting wired, they are on average spending less time in cyberspace.
Home users said they were online 2.8 hours a week, down from three hours a week in an April survey. Business and other users said they were online for 1.8 hours, down from two hours in April.
The poll also reinforced findings of earlier studies showing that more educated people were more likely to use computers and access the Internet.
People with college and graduate degrees were twice as likely to use computers and four times more likely to access the Internet as people who only graduated from high school, the poll found.
The poll's results were based on a telephone survey of 1,032 adults at the end of September and have a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, according to Harris.
The French government has started a wide consultation on one of the thorniest issues in the future liberalised telecommunications sector -- the costs of interconnection charged to operators by France Telecom.
With Germany's Deutsche Telekom starting share trading on Monday, France is taking a further step in preparing its own telecommunications operator for the share market.
Francois Fillon, minister for Post and Telecommunications, has written to the main current and future players in the field soliciting their comments before November 30.
In a statement, the ministry said it was preparing two decrees to be published at the start of 1997.
One will set up the general conditions and tarification principles for interconnection agreements and another will set the time limit for the litigation procedures. The ministry is proposing a period of three months, which could be extended to six months if the complaining party agrees.
Both decrees concern the new French telecommunications regulatory authority, which will be in place in early 1997 but has not yet been named.
Under the French plans for market liberalisation, France Telecom will keep running the national infrastructure and will be responsible for the public service of telephone access for all French people.
While other operators can use alternative networks, there needs to be agreement on the prices of interconnection for a call from a subscriber to one operator to the receiver who subscribes to another operator, or the price for carrying this call over a stretch of the territory.
This price for interconnection is very important for the business models of new rivals in fixed telecommunications such as the Cegetel venture of Generale des Eaux, Mannesmann, SBC and British Telecommunications and the grouping of Bouygues and Italy's STET.
At the moment, Generale des Eaux's SFR mobile telecommunications operator says it is the biggest client of France Telecom.
For France Telecom, currently France's most profitable company, the pricing decision is also of the biggest importance for its future profit streams and therefore for the market valuation for its pending partial privatisation in April.
The French government is expected to float a first tranche of 25 percent in France Telecom in April.
By deciding on the interconnection costs in early 1997, the ministry takes away a major uncertainty for financial analysts in calculating their cash flow models for France Telecom and, thus, its value.
Brokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd, in a June report on France Telecom, estimated that interconnection revenues for France Telecom could rise from an estimated 311 million francs ($61.1 million) in 1996 to 2.024 billion francs in 1998 and 4.598 billion francs in 2000.
-- Paris Newsroom +331 4221 5452 ($ = 5.086 French Francs)
Airline giant British Airways Plc (BA) is unlikely to hike its airfares by the full three percent agreed to last week by the world's airlines, BA chairman Sir Colin Marshall said on Monday.
The world's airlines, desperate to hold up their profits in the face of a 40-percent surge in fuel prices this year, said in Geneva last week through the International Air Transport Association (IATA) that they proposed to raise passenger fares by three percent.
Marshall told reporters after a luncheon address in Sydney that BA was not as badly affected as some other airlines because of the strength of sterling against the U.S. dollar.
"You also have to bear in mind that the impact for individual carriers does depend on exchange rates in that all aviation fuel is priced in U.S. dollar terms," he said.
"So one has to watch what is happening to your own currency versus the U.S. dollar to see what the overall impact will be for a company," he said.
When asked if the recent strength in sterling meant BA would therefore not pass on the full three percent agreed to in Geneva, he said: "I think that's quite likely."
He said BA had increased its prices by only about one percent before the Geneva resolution because of the strong currency.
"The pound has been relatively strong against the dollar and that's why we only applied about a one-percent increase in price."
IATA, which has 251 member airlines, said in Geneva the proposed increase, which is subject to government approvals, would apply to fares from December 15.
Marshall said the extent to which the three percent increase was applied depended on each individual carrier and how fuel prices changed through the northern hemisphere's winter.
Many European carriers are pushing for a concerted move to lift ticket prices by up to three per cent, but Asian and North American carriers were believed to be reluctant to do so.
BA reported earlier this month that despite strong traffic growth and greater productivity its first half operating profits were down 2.1 per cent compared with last year.
Part of the drop, it said, was due to the extra US$84 million it had had to pay for fuel.
Meanwhile, Marshall said he was confident the European Union would not thwart BA's plan to form an alliance with American Airlines, although he acknowleged it would take the two a long time to jump the various regulatory hurdles in front of them.
"I'm not worried about it because I don't think that that is likely to happen," Marshall said of a possible EU block.
On Friday the European Commission (EC) said it had formally asked BA for details of the planned alliance.
A report that the EC had said the alliance did not appear to be in the best interests of consumers pushed BA's shares lower earlier on Friday.
"There are so many precedents for similar events that have been allowed to go into effect, that to me it would be quite wrong if the European Union reached that conclusion," he said.
"I think things are all moving in the right direction, but it's just very slow," Marshall said of the regulatory process.
Building products and energy group Boral Ltd said on Monday it had started the 1996/97 year poorly due to continued weakness in the Australian housing market, but it was still coy about the results for the full year.
Chairman Peter Cottrell told shareholders at the annual meeting that Boral's operating profit in the first four months of the current 1996/97 year was in line with budget, but about 20 percent below year ago levels.
Cottrell gave no figures, but said the 1996/97 first half earnings would be above the second half of 1995/96.  
"In summary, operating profit for the first four months is in line with budget and around 20 percent behind last year," Cottrell said. "Happily, this indicates that the half year profit will be substantially above the extremely disappointing result in the second half of last year."
He said most forecasters expected a recovery in demand for home building materials in the second half and this, along with recent interest rate cuts, should give the economy a boost.
"In this context, we expect that the second half profit should be well above the same period in 1995/96." Boral reported a 30 percent fall in its 1995/96 net profit to A$205.69 million.  
Sales fell to A$4.69 billion in the year to June 30, 1996 from A$4.94 billion a year earlier.
One analyst at the Boral meeting said the first four month profit result indicated that the group was currently looking at a flat annual profit for 1995/96.
Cottrell said shareholders would receive a 7.5 cents per share dividend payment for the six months ended December 31, 1996, the same amount paid in the second half of 1995/96.
"...current levels of trading enable the directors to anticipate that the company will be able to maintain the 7.5 cents rate for the 1997 interim dividend," Cottrell said.  
Boral cut its 1995/96 second half to 7.5 cents a share, from 10.5 cents a share, due to the 30 percent fall in net profit to A$205.69 million in the year to June 30, 1996.
Boral's total dividend for 1995/96 fell to 18 cents a share from 21 cents a year earlier.
The meeting was adjourned for two hours after Cottrell called a poll to amend Boral's articles of association giving Boral the authority to issue converting preference shares. Cottrell said 89.15 percent of the shareholders who voted approved the issue. Only 20 percent of shareholders voted.  
Managing director Tony Berg told reporters after the meeting that Boral would issue converting preference share for potential acquisitions, but neither a purchase or an issue was planned.
Cottrell said Boral was reviewing its European assets following poor financial performances from the operations there. "There is a review of the assets at present, some assets have been sold off in the U.K., we are looking hard at those in mainland Europe, primarily Germany," Cottrell said.
However, after the meeting, referring to the European operations, Berg said: "We are about to implement strategies that would result in a good return for shareholders."  
Profits from Boral's European businesses fell 73.7 percent to A$7 million in 1995/96, while sales fell 13.9 percent to A$205 million.
Cottrell and Berg were grilled by shareholders over the group's overall financial performance and its timber logging and woodchipping activities and were faced by environmental protesters outside the hotel where Boral held its meeting.
Berg also said Boral was on target to deliver more than A$80 million in savings in the 1996/97 year and that Boral was ahead of budget for the first quarter with savings of over A$20 million being achieved.  -- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
China is firming up a shortlist of foreign banks that will be allowed to do local renminbi currency business, foreign bankers said on Monday.
Hongkong Bank, Citibank and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi are expected to be among the winners, they said.
Foreign banks with branches in China, currently restricted to doing business in foreign exchange, have been promised that a handful will be given the right to take deposits and make loans in the Chinese currency before the end of the year.
"The Hongkong Bank, Citibank and Bank of Tokyo are in, the Chinese have made that clear," said one banker. "There may also be a European bank and a Hong Kong-based bank added as well, but they may not. They are being very cautious."
"The decision will be made as always on a geopolitical basis -- one from America, one from Japan, one from Europe," said a Hong Kong-based European banker.
Officials from Hongkong Bank and Citibank declined to comment on their chances and Bank of Tokyo executives were not available.
But other bankers said there were still conflicting reports as to when the announcement would be made.
"It has to happen soon," said a Shanghai-based banker. "We've waited far too long. We're all tired and bored with the waiting."
Once the announcement has been made, foreign bankers said they expected it to offer only very limited renminbi business rights, restricted to taking in money from, and lending money to, foreign-funded enterprises in China.
"The funding problem is the key one," said a foreign banker. "Foreign-funded firms wouldn't generally want to put their renminbi on deposit with a bank, it's their working capital. If they did, it would be an act of charity (towards the banks)."
The foreign banks will definitely not be allowed in the foreseeable future to take in deposits from Chinese firms or individuals, bankers said.
The answer may be that the People's Bank of China, the central bank, will lend renminbi funds to the foreign banks to lend on to customers, thereby giving the central bank power to control the extent of the business, they said.
Once the first batch of banks have begun to do limited renminbi business, it could be as much as a year before any other foreign banks are allowed to join them, bankers said.
"They are being very careful; this will be an experiment that they will watch very closely before taking another step forward," said one banker.
Around 300,000 tonnes of copper is in the process of being added to the stocks of China's central reserve authorities with about a third of that quantity now clearing through customs, Asian traders said on Monday.
Metals trading and industry sources polled in recent days by Reuters generally agreed that Shanghai bonded warehouses have held up to 100,000 tonnes of copper.
"The copper in the Shanghai (bonded) warehouses has been settled and is moving into China," a Chinese metals trader said.  
The copper's ownership and purpose have been contentious since it was channelled into China in the wake of Japanese Sumitomo Corp's revelation in June of massive copper-trading losses now said by the company to total US$2.6 billion.
Many market and industry sources have said the copper was bought by Beijing's metals trading arm China National Non-ferrous Metals Import/Export Corp (CNIEC) possibily in conjunction with Sumitomo.
Neither CNIEC nor Sumitomo have made any official comment.  
A Chinese source, who trades for a state-owned company, said central authorities bought the copper now moving through customs to cover the 85,000 tonnes of the red metal lent to the market in March 1995 and which had to be taken back.
But a European trader in Beijing said the 85,000 tonnes was additional to the tonnages now undergoing customs formalities.
He also noted the earlier movement of between 40,000 to 50,000 tonnes of copper which was shipped from Shanghai to bonded warehouses in north China for the state reserve.  
Another 50,000-60,000 tonnes had been taken from London Metal Exchange (LME) warehouses and would be delivered to Chinese ports in January or early February, he said.
The European source's total figure of 285,000-295,000 tonnes tallies with reports from other sources, Western and Chinese, who have said China, either through major state-owned trading companies or smaller firms with hot money, is due to take delivery of substantial amounts of copper.
As the London Metal Exchange (LME) copper price plummeted in June on Sumitomo's news, China was said to be taking advantage of prices below $2,000 a tonne to stock up.  
Arbitrage opportunities are narrowing, however, and trade sources said they were relieved the Shanghai hoard was destined for central government reserves.
"This will keep it off the market," a Shanghai trader said.
The European source in Beijing said: "These tonnages are worth US$1 billion and only the central reserve authorities have the capacity to put out this sort of money.
"It could even be part of the Three Gorges Dam budget -- that project could easily use 100,000 tonnes of copper and the reserve's stocks are very low," he said.  
A large gap between LME and Shanghai Metal Exchange prices gave Chinese arbitragers a stab at healthy profits and a chance to take their money out of domestic equities.
This fuelled fears that massive amounts of copper could be channeled onto the domestic Chinese market.
A South American source who regularly visits Chinese copper smelters said many of his contacts had recently expressed fears that 300,000 tonnes of copper would soon arrive in China and kill the market for domestic product.  
Beijing's plan to dam the Yangtse River is one of the world's biggest infrastructure projects, costing around $30 billion and due for completion in 2009.
Five different departments of Shanghai Customs contacted by Reuters said they did not know of the copper movements.
A number of government departments, as well as Beijing's metals production arm China National Non-ferrous Metals Corp (CNNC) and CNIEC also said they were not aware of or had no comment on the market talk.
China is traditionally guarded about its reserves, treating all relevant figures as a state secret.  
Copper futures on the Shanghai Metal Exchange breached the key resistance level of 20,000 yuan ($2,409) per tonne in early Monday trading, after sharp gains on the LME on Friday.
LME copper rode a roller-coaster on Friday, finally settling at $2,148 a tonne, a gain of $117 over Thursday as the market shook off rumours of huge stocks held in Rotterdam and focused on the lowest LME copper stocks in 6-1/4 years.
The latest Hong Kong indications of premium or discount in US$/tonne over LME cash prices on a CIF basis:
				    Nov 18		    Oct 11
    COPPER			 100			100
    ALUMINIUM Western	   65-75		    65
		  CIS		 N/A			N/A
    LEAD			    N/A		     135
    ZINC (Chinese)		N/A			70-90
	   (Western)		N/A		     120
($1=8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6358
North Korea expects a shortfall of two million tonnes of grain next year -- equal to 40 percent of the nation's needs and significantly worse than expected, a Red Cross official said on Monday.
Only a few months ago, aid workers had estimated the food shortage would be 1.5 million tonnes.
"Their shortages are serious...they (North Korean officials) have not been able to meet the daily food ration," said Ole Gronning, representative of the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in North Korea's capital of Pyongyang.
"This is bad news, really bad news in a country that already doesn't have much now," Gronning said by telephone.
He said farmers whose crops had been wiped out by devastating floods in July had eaten about 400,000 tonnes of grain before it came to maturity, adding this would worsen the food shortage this winter.
North Korea has faced the spectre of famine since July after the floods destroyed about 373,000 tonnes of grain, compounding damage from widespread floods in 1995.
Official figures showed North Korea would need 5.5 million tonnes of grain next year, but this year's harvest had yielded just 3.5 million tonnes, Gronning said.
The federation was trying to raise $10.5 million for a new programme to buy grain to stave off hunger for some 140,000 North Koreans badly hit by the floods, he said.
"In some of the villages and the valleys we are now going into, they were working on repairing the damage from the 1995 floods and then they got hit once again," he said.
"They have lost everything, including houses, livestock and so on," he said.
The summer floods had submerged large tracts of arable land for more than 10 days. Some of that land was now covered in sand and mud and could not be farmed again.
"The second floods left people in a really bad situation," Gronning said. "People will be running out of food in the second half of December."
The federation would work with the North Korean Red Cross Society to distribute a daily ration of 450 grams (15.75 ounces) of grain and a helping of supplementary foods such as soybeans to each person, he said.
Aid workers would try to provide stricken residents with winter clothes and blankets to brace against winter temperatures that could drop as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius, he said.
"Without enough food and without proper heating, these people are really badly off," he said.
North Korea, despite its philosophy of self-reliance, cracked open the door to foreign aid last year in the face of looming food shortages.
Gronning said the federation had appealed to member societies in Europe, North America and Japan to donate money urgently needed to start buying grain and clothes.
"Hopefully, we will have the first pledges very, very soon so we can start purchasing," he said.
A Tibetan nun has had her jail term doubled to 18 years for refusing to recognise Beijing's choice as the reincarnation of the region's second holiest monk, the Tibet Information Network (TIN) said on Monday.
The sentence of 19-year-old Ngawang Sangdrol, jailed since she was 15, was doubled in July, partly because she refused to accept Beijing's choice as the Panchen Lama, according to the London-based TIN, which monitors human rights in the Himalayan region.
"Ngawang...is now facing (more time) in jail than any other female political prisoner in Tibet," TIN said. She is due for release in the year 2010.
Officials reached by telephone in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa denied knowledge of the report.
The 10th Panchen Lama died in 1989, and Beijing has anointed a six-year-old boy as his reincarnation.
The Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled spiritual leader, has named another six-year-old boy as the 11th Panchen Lama, and many Tibetans see the Beijing-backed child as a pretender.
Beijing's choice is in the Chinese capital under state protection against any possible assassination attempts by radical Tibetans, Chinese sources have said.
China denies there are political prisoners in Tibet and says foreign critics of its human rights record are interfering in its internal affairs.
Ngawang is already serving nine years -- three years for taking part in a pro-independence demonstration in 1992 and six years for singing nationalist songs in prison in 1993, according to TIN.
Her sentence was doubled in part because she refused to tidy her cell in Lhasa's Drapchi prison in March in apparent protest against a political re-education campaign, TIN said.
The campaign is designed to force prisoners to accept Beijing's choice as the reincarnated Panchen Lama.
Ngawang also refused to stand up in the presence of a Tibetan official, Brigade Commander Khandrol Jangpe, TIN said.
The human rights group, which had reported in August that Ngawang was on a restricted diet and confined in a cell with no windows, said it had only recently received confirmation of the longer jail term through a former prisoner who fled Tibet.
China has vowed to curb the influence of Buddhism and the Dalai Lama in Tibet, saying socialism must take precedence over religion.
The Dalai Lama, the most revered figure in Tibetan Buddhism, fled into exile in India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against communist rule. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign for autonomy for his homeland.
State media have complained that monks and nuns outnumber high school students and that too much money was spent on the region's monasteries.
Diamond Shamrock Inc said it plans to close its merger with Ultramar Corp on December 3 and announce a new organizational structure shortly thereafter.
In a meeting with security analysts, chief executive officer Roger Hemminghaus said Diamond Shamrock is close to the sale of its telecommunications business and its natural gas exploration and production operations in Bolivia.
Hemminghaus also said that the new Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corp will eagerly scour the industry for refining and marketing acquisitions and joint ventures.  
"There are bound to be some opportunities that are out there for us," Hemminghaus said.
Diamond Shamrock and Ultramar announced in September a merger that will create a new company with a combined equity value of more than $2.3 billion.  Hemminghaus, who will become chairman and chief executive of the new company, noted that opportunities will come from consolidation occuring elsewhere in the energy industry.  He noted a combination being discussed by Texaco Inc and Royal Dutch/Shell Group's Shell Oil Co "means there are going to be some quality assets that become available in certain markets."
Asked whether his new company would be interested in a joint venture similar to others taking place in the industry, Hemminghaus said "You bet we would".
He flatly dismissed speculation that Diamond Shamrock entered the pact with Ultramar because it was being targeted as an acquisition candidate.
"This was in no way a defensive move on our part," he said, adding Diamond Shamrock was not approached by another firm.  He also said Diamond Shamrock had considered a transaction with Unocal Corp, which on Monday announced the sale of downstream assets to Tosco Corp.
"Had this deal (Ultramar) not gone through, we would have been looking very seriously at this (Unocal) opportunity.  If the timing had been a little bit different, we would have been out there looking at it," he said.
Diamond Shamrock anticipates the union with Ultramar will result in cost savings and synergies that will add $0.20 per share to earnings in 1997 and $0.60 per share in 1998.
The merger with Ultramar marks the second major transaction for Diamond Shamrock since last December, when it bought National Convenience Stores Inc.
Hemminghaus said cost savings of that transaction have exceeded preliminary estimates.  Savings this year are expected to be $31.5 million compared with earlier estimates of $20 million and estimated savings for 1997 are now set at $46.5 million, he said.
The British government on Tuesday said the design of Eurotunnel's freight trains would have to be scrutinised after a massive fire swept through one of its main tunnels, injuring eight people and causing wide damage.
British transport secretary Sir George Young told parliament he was sure the Anglo-French Channel Tunnel Safety Authority would look at the design aspects after warnings from British fire chiefs about the safety of the trains.
Any changes to the design of Eurotunnel carriages would be another costly blow to the Channel Tunnel operator which recently came back from the brink of bankruptcy after restructuring its nine billion pounds ($15 billion) in debt.
The fire, the first serious incident since the tunnel opened two years ago, halted services on Tuesday. Even if limited services resume on Wednesday, Eurotunnel warned that traffic capacity would be cut to one third of normal levels for an indefinite period.
The fire and worries about the extent of damage and a resultant safety review hit Eurotunnel shares.
In London, they closed down 4-1/2 pence at 87 pence while in Paris the stock dropped 1.28 percent to 7.65 francs per share. But trading in its debt was barely changed.
One freight customer TNT Express Worldwide said it would be relying more on ferries as a result of the fire.
Eurotunnel confirmed in a statement that 15 heavy goods vehicles and the rear locomotive had suffered "severe" damage.
The fire was reported to have started in a goods carriage carrying a truck holding flammable polystyrene but Eurotunnel said the cause had not yet been determined.
The goods vehicle shuttles have partially open sides - the safety of which had been questioned by the British fire brigade some years before.
Mike Frattini, fire officer and spokesman for the Kent Fire Brigade which helped put out the fire, told Reuters earlier: "Our chief officer warned the safety committee (for the tunnel) five years ago."
He suggested that fire fighters could raise this issue once again with the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority.
Eurotunnel's spokesman refused to comment on whether changes will need to be made to carriages, adding that: "It is a key question."
A spokesman for the Department of Transport told Reuters that past concerns about the safety of these carriages had led to Eurotunnel carrying out safety tests two years ago. "They were then approved in May 1994," he said.
Apart from possible safety changes, Eurotunnel faces other heavy costs.
The first is lost revenue due to reduced traffic. A Eurotunnel spokesman in London told Reuters "We will operate at one third of normal capacity and we will give priority to Eurostar (passenger) trains. But there will still be space for shuttle trains as well." He did not say how many Eurostar or Le Shuttle trains would be cancelled as a result of the fire.
Eurotunnel confirmed in a statement that 15 heavy goods vehicles and the rear locomotive had suffered "severe" damage. "It is a serious accident," chairman Patrick Ponsolle said.
A Eurotunnel spokesman said the cost of repairs was not yet known. "It's quite messy down there. There will be damage to the overhead powerline cables, the heat will have buckled the steel rails and the carriages involved would be very badly damaged and may need to be replaced," he said.
The cost of a new goods train is 25 million pounds, but Eurotunnel said it did not think an entire train would need replacing. It faces costs in repairing tunnel and rolling stock damage and may face compensation costs, possibly involving paying for customers to travel by ferry or air, although the company said it is heavily insured.
The fire comes just before Christmas when the tunnel was expecting a surge in holiday sales. But pre-holiday publicity now consists of media reports of choking people emerging from smoke and "blow-torch"-like heat.
Asked whether this would dampen customer demand, Eurotunnel said "We hope not. But what's happened has happened and how the fire was handled should renew confidence in our safety procedures," said the press officer. ($1=.5970 Pound)
British dairy and distribution company Unigate Plc posted better than expected profits at the half year stage on Tuesday and said it was seeking to expand its presence as a distributor in mainland Europe.
"We have now refocused the group into food and distribution. And a lot of pan-European customers of ours are looking for us to come to them with some European capability, so one area we are looking at is distribution," chairman Ian Martin said.
Pretax profits in the half year to September 30 were up 0.3 percent at 60.6 million pounds ($101.1 million), better than stockmarket forecasts of 57 to 59 million. The company held cash of 58 million at September 30, giving it ample resources for acquisitions.
The company raised its interim dividend by 5.3 percent to 7.0 pence. Unigate shares were up four pence at 431p by late in the session.
Martin told a news conference: "We tend to see the duck being thickest in Europe and that is where we are shooting at the moment."
Chief executive Ross Buckland said in an interview that Unigate had between 200 and 300 million pounds to spend on acquisitions. "If our interest cover went down below four times then you would have to question our cautiousness," he said.
He ruled out a special dividend, saying that growth by acquisition represented better value to shareholders.
"We are prepared to expand beyond areas in which we operate, into another food area, but if we did it would have to be a large and meaningful acquisition," said Buckland.
Unigate's European foods division reported profits up 3.1 million at 44.1 million in the first half, with fresh foods increasing profits from 20.5 million to 26.5 million pounds.
This increase was helped by the 77 million pound acquisition of Kraft's European margarines and spreads business in August.
Malton, the bacon and pork processing business, has also benefited from recent acquisitions.
In the half year, a total of 100 million was spent on acquisitions, including 20 million on the Hargrave pork products business to further strengthen Malton. Another 77 million was spect buying Kraft's Vitalite and Golden Churn brands to add to St Ivel's existing brands -- Gold and Utterly Butterly.
"I don't believe we can be accused of unwise investments over the last year," Buckland said.
Unigate's dairy business reported profits down 2.9 million pounds at 17.6 million due to lower prices for butter and milk powders, which Unigate estimated cost it about 4.0 million in the period. But from October, Unigate said it has seen a small reduction in raw milk prices.
Wincanton, Unigate's distribution business reported profits up 1.7 million at 12.3 million.
In August, Unigate completed its exit from the U.S. restaurant business with the sale of Taco Bueno and Casa Bonita for 27 million, enabling the company to focus purely on developing its core European food and distribution business.
The group sold its U.S. restaurant chain Black-eyed Pea for 42 million pounds in July and its minority stake in Dutch food company Nutricia for 360 million in January. Cash at the bank and in hand amounted to 292 million at the half-year stage. ($1=.5994 Pound)
Shares in Britain's newly-demerged EMI Group Plc rose on Tuesday as the stock market applauded the company's resilience to tougher conditions in the music market.
EMI, which split from rentals company Thorn Plc three months ago, said profit before tax and exceptional items rose nine percent to 112.5 million pounds ($188.4 million) in the six months to September 30. Net interim dividend per share increased by 12.7 percent to eight pence.
EMI shares, which have shed some two pounds in recent weeks on fears that global music sales were faltering after a decade of strong growth, had added 9-1/2p to 1,280-1/2p by 1330 GMT after earlier climbing to 1290p.
"These are excellent interim results from the EMI Group," chairman Sir Colin Southgate said in a statement.
"They have been achieved against a background of variable growth in the major markets and mixed results from our competitors," he added. "The increase in the interim dividend reflects our confidence in the long-term health of the music industry and EMI's position within it."
Analysts said that EMI appeared in better shape than some of its rivals in a patchy worldwide market.
"What we have seen from their competitors was poor but EMI is insulated as it does not have so much exposure to the U.S.," said media analyst Lorna Tilbian of brokers Panmure Gordon, adding: "They tend to be strong in the areas where the growth is coming through."
Panmure are forecasting full-year profit excluding exceptional items of 403 million pounds and have a target share price of 1360p.
Finance Director Simon Duffy said EMI remained confident that the global music business would continue to grow by some 6-8 percent annually in the medium to long-term.
"This year is looking a little bit below that level," said Duffy, adding that markets were mixed but that overall first half music sales growth had been 5.5 percent. However, he added that the impact for EMI was diluted by the strength of sterling.
The market's sluggishness has recently been reflected by 100 layoffs at various labels within Warner Music and 400 job cuts at PolyGram NV -- two other music majors.
EMI said that sales in the United States were almost flat and declined slightly in France. But this was offset by improvements in Japan, Britain and Germany while Southeast Asia and Latin America boasted particularly large gains.
Turnover from the EMI Music division was down marginally at around 1.1 billion pounds but analysts ascribed this to the effect of exchange rates. Better margins helped to boost operating profits in the EMI Music division to 131.9 million pounds from 124.6 million.
The HMV division, grouping record and book stores chains, had an operating loss of 11 million pounds which the company said was in line with expectations.
EMI said major releases for the key pre-Christmas quarter included the third and final Beatles Anthology album, which entered the American charts at number one. It is also releasing a triple album from The Artist Formerly Known as Prince and the debut from British newcomers the Spice Girls. ($1=.5970 Pound)
Eurotunnel Plc, the Anglo-French Channel Tunnel operator, said on Tuesday that its traffic will be cut to one third of normal levels after a fire swept through one of its main tunnels on Monday night, injuring eight people.
Services have been terminated until the tunnel affected is cleared. A Eurotunnel spokesman in London said there was no fixed time for when services would resume or how long reduced capacity will operate once the tunnel is opened.
News of the fire and worries about the extent of damage and a resultant safety review hit Eurotunnel's shares in both London and Paris.
The fire is the latest issue to dog Eurotunnel's performance which has been plagued by negotiations to rejig nine billion pounds ($15 billion) in debt.
In London, Eurotunnel shares fell 3-1/2 pence to 88 pence while in Paris the stock was down around two percent at 7.68 francs per share. But trading in its debt was barely changed.
Commenting on the initial impact on traffic, a Eurotunnel spokesman in London said, "We will operate at one third of normal capacity and we will give priority to Eurostar (passenger) trains. But there will still be space for shuttle trains as well."
He did not say how many Eurostar or Le Shuttle trains would be cancelled as a result.
The Tunnel's operations were closed after a fire engulfed part of one of two tunnels, near to Calais where parties from France and Britain had been holding a safety conference.
The Eurotunnel spokesman said it did not yet know the full extent of damage to rolling stock or the tunnel itself or how much it could cost, but admitted it was a "very ferocious fire."
"It's quite messy down there. There will be damage to the overhead powerline cables, the heat will have buckled the steel rails and the carriages involved would be very badly damaged and may need to be replaced," he said.
The cost of a new train is 25 million pounds, but Eurotunnel did not think an entire train would need replacing. But Eurotunnel faces costs in repairing tunnel and rolling stock damage and may face compensation costs, possibly involving paying for customers to travel by ferry or air.
The company said at this stage that it does not know the cause of the fire. But unconfirmed media reports say the fire began in a truck carrying inflammable polystyrene.
The heavy goods vehicle shuttles are known to have partially open sides -- the safety of which had been questioned by the British fire brigade some years before.
Mike Frattini, fire officer and spokesman for the Kent Fire Brigade which helped put out the tunnel fire, said earlier: "Our chief officer warned the safety committee (for the tunnel) five years ago."
Fire fighters could raise this objection again as part of the investigation which will go to the Anglo-French Channel Tunnel Safety Authority.
If the current goods carriages are deemed to be hazardous in light of the accident there could be a call for changes, incurring further costs to Eurotunnel.
Eurotunnel's spokesman refused to comment on whether changes will need to be made to carriages, adding that "It is a key question."
The fire comes just before Christmas when the tunnel was expected to see a surge in holiday sales. But pre-holiday publicity now consists of media reports of choking people emerging from smoke and "blow-torch"-like heat.
Asked whether this would dampen customer demand, Eurotunnel said "We hope not. But what's happened has happened and how the fire was handled should renew confidence in our safety procedures," said the press officer.
One analyst at Natwest Securities said there should be little further impact on shares or consumer confidence.
Shares in cross-channel ferry operator P&amp;O were five pence higher at 602-1/2p.
($1=.5970 Pound)
Vodafone Group, Britain's biggest mobile phones firm, posted a sharp 21 percent rise in first half profits on Tuesday and insisted that the mobile market was likely to maintain a robust 20-25 percent growth rate next year.
Vodafone also announced it was buying The People's Phone Company, its biggest high-street retailer and service provider of mobile phones, for about 77 million pounds ($129 million).
Vodafone, which is licenced to serve over 250 million people in 13 countries, now has five wholly-owned service providers which, along with investments in another four, represent over 70 percent of its subscriber base with more than 410 branded shops.
Pretax profits in the first half of the year rose to 252 million pounds -- after a 17.2 million pound exceptional credit on asset disposals -- on sales of 771.5 million pounds, 16 percent higher than last time.
The dividend, up 20 percent at 2.36p per share, also came in at the top-end of expectations, helping the shares to close 11 pence higher at 254.5 pence.
Outgoing chief executive Sir Gerald Whent dismissed newspaper articles heralding what he called "doom and gloom" in the mobile phone market, saying that he expected a similar growth in net new connections to this year.
"Vodafone has only just begun," he stated.
His successor, Chris Gent, told a news conference that the total market for mobile communications grew by 1,428,000 in the first six months of the year -- six percent less than in the same period last year.
The group netted 2,654,000 subscribers at the end of September 1996 in its core British market, with overall growth in the period of 203,000 compared to 371,000 last year.
But Gent said the rate of decline was slowing and figures for October and November indicated a better quarter than the last two -- even before the key Christmas period.
"It may be that in previous years figures were inflated by customers attracted to cellular before they were ready to make a long term commitment," he said.
Despite a 1.3 percent dip in market share as rivals such as smaller digital mobile phones group Orange leave their indelible mark, Vodafone said it still had 42 percent of the mobile phone market and remained the market leader.
Vodafone's total customer base has swollen to 2,654,000 on its analogue network and 945,000 digital customers.
"Vodafone rarely disappoints and it certainly hasn't this time around," said Evan Miller, telecoms analyst at brokers CS First Boston. "Rumours of the demise of the UK mobile phone market have proved premature. There is life in the market and Vodafone is taking more than its fair share of it."
Vodafone, which celebrated its fifth anniversary as a fully independent company last month, has generated robust profits which last year amounted to 473 million pounds with operating cash flows of 621 million pounds.
A proposed $20 billion merger between British Telecommunications and America's MCI sparked rumours that U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T may want to increase its presence in Britain by acquiring Vodafone.
But Gent told Reuters in an interview that the group had not had talks with AT&amp;T and doubted such a deal would emerge. "Anything is possible, but we haven't been approached," he said.
As the British mobile market becomes increasingly competitive, Vodafone has invested in mobile businesses through western Europe and the Pacific Rim which contributed a maiden 9.9 million pound profit before interest, tax and a 3.9 million pound charge for its Hong Kong operation.
Foreign interests, including a stake in France's Societe Francaise du Radiotelephone (SFR), a stake in the German operator E-Plus Mobilfunk, and operations in Australia, South Africa, Greece and Hong Kong, turned in a loss of about 17 million pounds in the first half of last year.
But the company is on track for reaping 30 percent of profits from overseas operations by 2000, Gent said.
($1=.5970 Pound)
London Electricity on Tuesday became the latest British regional electricity company (Rec) to attract bid speculation after U.S. firm Entergy was reported to be mulling a 1.2 billion pound bid.
London Electricity declined comment on a report in the Wall Street Journal Europe that confidential documents showed the U.S. company was seeking 1.1 billion pounds to acquire an unnamed British electricity firm whose financial profile matched that of London Electricity.
Entergy told Reuters that any talks with another party were "too early in the scheme of things to be really meaningful."
"As far as specifying a target of that interest, we're not simply going to comment on what has been speculated and rumoured," Entergy spokesman Patrick Sweeney said.
However, he declined to deny the Wall Street Journal Europe article.
Shares in London Electicity touched a high of 671 pence before easing back to close at 667 pence, up 30-1/2 pence. The newspaper article said confidential Entergy company documents referred to used a code name "Atlantic" for the target company whose financial profile met that of London Electricity on a number of points.
The Journal said the bid was assumed in the documents to be for around 700 pence per share. The newspaper quoted Entergy's Sweeney as saying Entergy was interested in the British market and "obviously if you're interested, one of the results could be an acquisition."
The article followed a denial by Entergy on Monday of a report in Britain's Sunday Telegraph newspaper that the U.S. firm was considering a bid for Yorkshire Electricity Group Plc. The electricity sector has seen a flurry of bid speculation recently over the five remaining independent Recs. Northern Electric currently faces its second hostile offer in less than two years as it tries to fend off a $1.225 billion.
($1=.5994 Pound)
Russia's state oil pipeline firm Transneft on Tuesday cast a shadow of doubt over the go-ahead for a proposed new pipeline across Russia when it said it had demanded a stronger role in the strategic deal.
Transneft spokesman Ravil Polyanin said the monopoly, which owns and operates Russia's vast, existing oil pipeline network, was not content to play the role of daily operator and wanted an equity stake in the important project.
"We want to be a shareholder," he said. "But the oil firms have not valued our technical expertise highly enough."
Companies holding a 50 percent stake in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) that will build the proposed link are Chevron, Russian LUKoil, Mobil Corp , Rosneft, Oman Oil Company, British Gas Plc, Agip SpA of Italy, Kazakh Munaigaz and Oryx Energy Company.
Kazakhstan, Oman and Russia hold the remaining 50 percent.
A CPC official, speaking after a meeting last week in Moscow to try to push a long-delayed restructuring agreement ahead, said the deal would be signed next month.
But the consortium has not made any formal announcements on what was achieved and shareholders declined to give details.
The CPC consortium, in one of the former Soviet Union's most ambitious and important energy projects, wants to build a $1.5 billion pipeline from Kazakhstan's vast Tengiz oilfield through war-torn Chechnya to Russia's Black Sea port of Novorossiisk.
But a cloak of secrecy around last week's meeting raised questions over whether the group had overcome hurdles that have dogged it in the past, including prickly issues of Transneft's participation and of corporate and international financing.
"The transition committee successfully completed negotiations on restructuring and the final agreement will be signed in Moscow on December 6," said the CPC official, who added that he was not allowed to provide any details.
But several shareholders said the deadline was optimistic and stumbling blocks remained. "The subject is extremely sensitive and I cannot say one single word about CPC," said a Western oil executive whose company is a CPC shareholder.
A second similar Western source said: "I'm reluctant to say the deal is going to be signed on x or y date."
Polyanin said it was premature to say all outstanding problems had been resolved, adding that Transneft would seek to persuade consortium members to reallocate equity stakes.
He said Transneft was lobbying Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister Anatoly Shatalov to push CPC to give Transneft a share.
Transneft has a big strategic card to play, since it will operate the pipeline and help set and collect transit fees that will fill its coffers. If the fees are too high, it will throw a wrench into the economics of the deal for the Western partners.
CPC's main customers are Chevron and Mobil. Desperate to ship more oil out of their Tengiz project, they are already sending crude to Western markets via unconventional routes through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Finland on trains and barges.
CPC sources said Transneft's role and Russian taxes were the main issues preventing a final agreement for the pipeline which should eventually carry up to 70 million tonnes of oil a year (1.4 million barrels per day).
They also said it was a barometer of the extent to which Caspian onshore and offshore oil and pipeline projects will be able to get off the ground, and of Russia's willingness to see oil-rich former Soviet republics develop their own energy deals.
The Czech capital market, roundly criticised for a lack of transparency, needs an independent regulator, but it is not a panacea for all of the market's woes, a senior Finance Ministry official said on Tuesday.
"Let's not be seduced by the illusion that as soon as an independent securities committee is created that the Czech capital market will become more refined overnight," Jan Veverka of the ministry's capital markets supervisory department told a conference in the Czech capital.
"All it (the body) will do is create better conditions for the changes which can contribute to the market's gradual refinement," he added.
Both foreign and domestic investors have complained that poor legislation and a lack of enforcement of rules that do exist make the Czech capital market one of Eastern Europe's most opaque.
The soured outlook by investors has helped pull the Prague Stock Exchange down some 16 percent over the past two months, with predictions of further losses if rules do not change quickly.
One of the biggest problems is that legislation allows for near complete secrecy of off-market deals -- where an estimated 70 percent of trading takes place -- making it difficult for investors to determine fairly-valued shares prices.
Veverka said when the laws governing securities trading here were devised "parliament...discarded the concept of regulation which would have given broad powers to the embryonic supervisory system out of fear that it might have abused these powers and impeded the process of creating a market economy".
Coupled with this, he said, was the need to allow for a flood of ownership changes in the market as the mass voucher privatisation put shares in nearly 2,000 firms onto the market in a matter of months.
Now, he said, rules must be put in place to shift trading toward the main markets to bring about more transparency.
"Where trading takes place can be changed most effectively by ensuring an increase in the quality of the market's services and an end to the conditions which enable the kind of trading which is characterised by large price discrepancies," he said.
Veverka called for a raising of the debate on creating a U.S.-style SEC oversight body "to a much higher level and preparations should be made for the creation of this body".
But he added: "Monitoring deals and indentifying suspicious prices or other phenomena indisputably belongs to the work of the stock market, and the market must act as a strong support to the supervisory work of the independent committee".
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Chinese President Jiang Zemin will travel to Moscow in spring for a summit with Russian leader Boris Yeltsin, the official Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The two sides are expected to sign agreements on arms reductions along the 4,300-km (2,580-mile) Sino-Russian border in the near future, Xinhua said.
Chinese Premier Li Peng is scheduled to visit Moscow next month, state television said.
The forthcoming trips by Jiang and Li to Moscow were announced during a three-day visit to China by Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov.
Primakov met both Jiang and Li on Tuesday, the television said.
Jiang told Primakov that China's long-term policy towards Russia was "good neighbourly friendship, equality, trust, mutually beneficial cooperation and joint development", state television said.
"No matter what changes occur in the situation, this guiding principle will not change," Jiang said of a pledge by China and Russia in April to establish a strategic partnership.
Jiang and Yeltsin last met during the Russian president's tour of China in April in a visit that both sides hailed as instrumental in forging a new, strategic partnership.
"We have a common objective of making our border a bond of peace, stability, cooperation and prosperity," Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said. He did not elaborate on the specifics of the arms reduction agreements or when they might be signed.
Border disputes between China and Russia have been longstanding, although the two states reached basic agreement on border demarcation in 1991.
During Yeltsin's visit, China and Russia -- along with the former Soviet states of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan -- signed a treaty calling for all parties to inform each other of the scope of their military exercises and agreeing not to attack each other.
The Russian foreign minister came to China from Japan, where he scored a major improvement in relations with Tokyo.
Japan released $500 million in long-delayed aid to Russia, while Moscow offered the joint development of a group of disputed islands in the biggest step forward in their ties since the end of the Cold War.
China said on Tuesday a visit by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher could help keep Sino-U.S. ties on track but warned differences remained on such sensitive issues as trade and human rights.
Christopher, the highest level U.S. official to visit Beijing for two years, was scheduled to arrive in the Chinese capital on Tuesday evening for meetings intended to give a vital boost to long-strained Sino-U.S. ties.
"We hope this visit by Christopher to China can play a certain role in helping keep Sino-U.S. relations on track for healthy and stable development," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai told a news briefing.
While holding out the hope that ties could continue to grow warmer, Cui also criticised Washington's policies on trade, Chinese human rights and U.S. arms sales to Taiwan.
China has sent Washington mixed signals in the run-up to Christopher's visit, combining conciliatory talk with tough rhetoric on a range of tricky diplomatic issues, but diplomats say both sides are keen to make the visit a success.
Sino-U.S. ties have long been rocked by disputes over trade, human rights, copyright piracy in China, arms proliferation and Taiwan, although both sides say tensions have eased recently.
Differences remained with the United States over trade issues, but these should not be solved by threats of economic force, Cui said.
"There are differences and problems in Sino-U.S. trade and sometimes conflicts; this is the result of increasing trade," he said.
"The two sides should resolve possible differences and conflicts on a basis of mutual equality and by consultation rather than with unilateral actions or the imposition (of one side's) views," he said.
U.S concerns over China's human rights record, long a major issue in ties, have been heightened by Beijing's rejection last week of former student leader and dissident Wang Dan's appeal against his 11 years sentence for subversion.
Wang's sentence was a heavy blow to China's struggling pro-democracy movement and was widely seen as a slap in the face for Washington, which has touted constructive engagement with Beijing as the best way to boost Chinese human rights.
Cases such as Wang's were not human rights issues and were judicial matters that had nothing to do with Sino-U.S. relations, Cui said.
Washington's annual review of China's Most Favoured Nation (MFN) trade status, necessary to avoid heavy tariffs on Chinese imports, was another unneccesary irritant, he said.
"The U.S. review of China's MFN status every year is inappropriate," he said. "The settling of MFN once and for all is already on the agenda."
Washington has also been critical of Chinese policies on weapons proliferation, but Cui said the United States was the main offender, with arms sales to Beijing's arch-rival Taiwan.
"Of the so-called weapons proliferation issues, the most sensitive and most important are U.S. weapon sales to Taiwan," he said.
Christopher has come under pressure from members of Congress to raise U.S. concerns over the future of human rights in Hong Kong after it returns to Beijing rule next year but Cui said such matters were not Washington's concern.
"Hong Kong issues are totally China's internal affair," he said.
General Motors Corp. said Tuesday it agreed to sell four troubled parts plants to a new company that plans to become a major player in the competitive $22 billion automotive interior supply industry.
The new company, Peregrine Inc., is being funded by the New York investment firm Joseph Littlejohn &amp; Levy and auto industry executive Edward Gulda. No terms were announced for the sale, which has been expected for months.
Peregrine, which will have more than $1 billion in annual revenues, will be based in Southfield, Mich., and pursue contracts with car and truck manufacturers in North America as well as overseas.
"Peregrine will be one of North America's premier automotive supply companies," Gulda said in a statement. "We expect to see signficant growth in the years ahead."
Gulda is a former chief executive officer of Kelsey-Hayes, a brake systems maker that is part of LucasVarity Plc.
Peregrine also said it expected to sign an agreement with GM for future business. The Financial Post newspaper of Canada reported Tuesday that said GM has agreed to provide Peregrine with more that $4 billion in contracts over five years.
Peregrine officials could not be reached to comment.
The four plants make hinges, door and instrument panels and other interior parts, and generate combined revenue of about $1 billion a year. The plants employ about 5,500 hourly and salaried workers.
Two of the plants, in Livonia, Mich., and Flint, Mich., are part of GM's Delphi Interior &amp; Lighting Systems unit. The other two, a fabrication plant in Oshawa, Ontario, and a trim plant in Windsor, Ontario, report to Delphi and GM of Canada.
Peregrine will enter a competitive market facing major companies such as Lear Corp. and Johnson Controls Inc. Some analysts said at least one of the Peregrine plants could have have a difficult time competing. Contracts for most of what the Windsor plant supplies, for example, will run out in about two years, and the plant has not been winning new bids.
Nevertheless, there are some parts segments, such as door panels, where the industry needs all the producers that are out there, said Gregory Janicki, a vice president at industry consultant CSM Corp.
"There is such a need for all of these door panels that five companies couldn't supply them all," he said.
Moreover, companies that have been spun off from GM have a history of performing better than they did under the parent company, said Dennis Virag, managing director of the Automotive Consulting Group Inc. in Ann Arborn, Mich.
Virag cited privately held American Axel Manufacturing, a forging operation that GM sold in 1994, and engine maker Detroit Diesel Corp., which was sold in 1988.
"If you look at history, there's a very good chance that this company will do well," he said.
The Michigan plants had been on a list of 12 domestic operations GM had identified as being troubled facilities.
Sale of the Canadian plants became an issue in the three-week strike by members of the Canadian Auto Workers union in October. In the end, GM won the right to sell the two plants. Workers not kept on by the new owner will be offered jobs at other GM facilities.
Peregrine said hourly workers at the four plants who are retained will be covered by the 1996 master contracts with the United Auto Workers and Canadian Auto Workers unions. Wages, pensions and benefits for salaried and hourly workers will be about the same as they had been under GM, it said.
Peregrine will be financed with equity from Joseph Littlejohn &amp; Levy Fund II, a private partnership formed to invest in consolidating industries and corporate divestitures. Peregrine said it does not expect to incur debt other than for working capital needs.
Dayton Hudson Corp., the nation's fourth-largest retailer, Tuesday reported higher third-quarter results, giving added credence to analysts' projections of an industrywide strong holiday shopping season.
Women's retail chains Ann Taylor and The Limited also posted higher results.
General merchandise retailers should post decent gains in November and December combined, said Howard Eilenberg, an analyst at Johnson Redbook Service, a unit of Lynch, Jones &amp; Ryan Inc.
"It's going to be overall in the 5-to-5-1/2 percent increase range (over the previous year's sales). More importantly, the gross margins and the profits are going to look better," Eilenberg said.
Dayton Hudson said it had a 164 percent increase in operating earnings for its third quarter ended Nov. 2. Results were aided by a strong performance at its Target discount stores.
The Minneapolis-based retailer reported operating earnings of $116 million, or 49 cents a share, several cents above analysts' estimates. A year earlier it earned $44 million, or 18 cents a share.
"The key issue was a very strong performance from Target in all areas," said Saul Yaari, retail analyst at Piper Jaffray.
Target's operating profit in the third quarter rose 82 percent to $213 million, and total revenues increased 14 percent while same-store revenues rose 5 percent, Dayton Hudson said.
Meanwhile, Dayton Hudson's Mervyn's unit reported a 98 percent increase in operating profits to $64 million in the quarter, boosted by reductions in marketing costs, store expenses and headquarters costs. The increase came despite a 3 percent drop in revenue and a decrease in gross margins.
"Our third-quarter results reflect continued strong profit performance at Target and Mervyn's," Dayton Hudson Chairman Bob Ulrich said in a news release. "While the holiday calendar is challenging, we believe we are well positioned for a successful finish to 1996."
The 1996 holiday season includes five fewer selling days between Thanskgiving and Christmas than a year ago.
New York-based AnnTaylor Stores Corp. reported net income of $3.3 million, or 13 cents a share, after a $2 million, or 8-cent-a-share after-tax charge related to obligations under its former chairman's contract. That compared with $666,000, or 3 cents a share, a year ago.
Columbus, Ohio-based Limited Inc. reported operating earnings of $88.4 million, or 15 cents a share, before gains from initial public offerings, compared with $69.1 million, or 10 cents a share, a year ago.
"Our much improved third-quarter results reflect performance gains and continuing momentum in certain of our women's and our emerging businesses" including the Abercrombie &amp; Fitch business, Limited Chief Executive Leslie Wexner said in a statement.
"Consistent with our sales plan, we enter the holiday period well positioned, with overall inventories up 3 percent per square foot at retail," he said.
Analysts agreed The Limited was well positioned for the key holiday shopping season.
"I think they're positioned for a decent Christmas," said Elizabeth Pierce, analyst at Stephens Inc. "Inventories are conservatively managed."
Dayton Hudson stock rose $1.25 to $37.625, Limited rose 25 cents to $17.75 and AnnTaylor fell 87.5 cents to $20.50, all on the New York Stock Exchange.
Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates on Tuesday swept aside doubts about the future of the personal computer, saying this type of computer system was going to be in the forefront for many years to come.
The Microsoft co-founder used his keynote address at the annual Comdex industry trade show in Las Vegas to illustrate how the PC had survived criticisms over its shortcomings and will continue to be used in a wide range of devices, from home computers to cellular phones.
Microsoft earlier this week unveiled the first line of handheld PC devices running on its new Windows CE operating system. Gates said Microsoft is working on advances that in 1997 should give its new high-end Windows NT programme the same sort of scalability -- the ability to add vast numbers of computing configurations -- as Windows CE.
These technologies, designed for high-end computers, are able to store terabytes, or 1 trillion bytes, of data to eventually process billions of transactions a day.
Gates said only around 15 companies now store terabytes of data and the billion-transaction level is more than phone companies, credit card firms or airlines currently process on such systems.
But, with transactions and communications using World Wide Web technology, the tetrabyte level is not far off, he said.
Touting the virtues of the PC, Gates said, "The strength of the PC is what you take for granted," he said. In recent years, for example, Microsoft and the industry have introduced features that allow PC users to easily plug in new devices and multimedia features such as video and audio.
The personal computer industry has grown dramatically, he said, with more than 200 million PC users worldwide. Although sales volume is approaching 70 million units a year, it will be hard to keep unit sales growth worldwide above the 10 percent figure in future years, Gates said.
"It's hard to grow at greater than 10 percent. There will probably be some years where you won't see any growth at all," he said, adding that, nonetheless, "people are doing more and more with the PC."
Gates outlined an array of pending technologies, including three-dimensional graphics, and sophisticated methods of transmitting information to computers such as speech recognition and visual clues such as gestures or expressions.
At some point, he said, recipients of intelligent "junk mail" may actually be able to transmit their facial expressions upon reading it back to the organisation that sent the mail.
In future operating systems, Gates predicted that "90 percent of the code will relate to these new input systems."
Gates, using videos to illustrate his point, poked fun at the Silicon Valley adversaries who are increasingly touting a new, low-price network computer, or NC, as the solution to escalating computing costs.
One of the videos depicted a variety of individuals being interviewed in New York City streets on their thoughts on a series of complex computer terms in a mock survey illustrating how little the public knows about computer technology.
One features Scott McNealy, the chief executive of Sun Microsystems Inc., who has been thumbing his nose at Microsoft and touting his Java technology and NCs as a means to eliminate Microsoft's lock on the industry.
Without being aware of what may have been asked, McNealy stares into the camera, and says, "I'm not sure. I'm not a computer scientist. I majored in golf."
In a briefing following the speech, Gates and other Microsoft executives repeated that Microsoft was spending over $2 billion on research and development in fiscal 1997, and has budgeted $600 million in product support and $400 million toward partnerships.
Microsoft on Monday introduced the new Office 97 applications, which include word processing and spreadsheets, and said Tuesday that 1 million desktops users have signed up to receive it.
Office 97 software will cost around $199 for the standard edition and $299 for the professional product, similar to the prices of Microsoft's Office 95 versions.
The stock of IBM, which in recent years was derisively dubbed "I've Been Mugged," is back trading at historic highs, with many analysts and traders predicting its shares will continue to soar.
The major rally was sparked last Friday when an influential Wall Street analyst, Daniel Mandresh of Merrill Lynch, raised his 12-month price target on International Business Machines Corp, to $195 from about $155.
Since Friday, IBM's shares have soared 20.2 percent to 153-3/4 at Tuesday's close of market.  
One question now among investors is whether to jump in at these levels like sheep, or wait for IBM's stock to decline.
Market technicians and some analysts who follow IBM say that its once-beleaguered stock still has room to climb.
Even after Friday's run-up, analyst Steve Milunovich of Morgan Stanley on Monday raised his 12-month price target to $170, from $145.
IBM's shares are now trading at levels its shares have not seen since before the 1987 stock market crash, having in fact reached a nine-year high.  
"It still sells at a relatively low valuation, relative to the technology sector," Milton said.
Technology stocks typically trade at a price/earnings ratio of about 20 times their earnings estimates. But even with its intraday surge Tuesday of 7-1/4, IBM is still trading at a P/E of only about 14.2 times its trailings earnings estimates.
IBM's shares have climbed nearly 70 percent since July 15, when it was trading around 90-7/8.  
Market technicians, who use charts, graphs and computer analysis without considering company fundamentals, said that IBM's shares have recently broken out of two previous resistance levels on the charts, one at 128 and another at 148, and are now poised for a further uptick.
"At these levels there really isn't much resistance, this can continue to work higher," said Susan Stern, a senior technical analyst at Smith Barney. Resistance refers to a price ceiling where a stock price consolidates.  
"I think the primary trend remains up," said Gregory Nie, a technical analyst at EVEREN Securities Inc. "The stock is getting a little extended on a short-term basis."
Traders seem to agree. One technology trader said he has now covered a short position in IBM. "I think the move has probably been overdone short-term, but on a valuation, it is a lot cheaper than a lot of tech stocks," the trader said. "The way it's been trading, it's got a little more to go."
However some more bearish analysts point out that since Mandresh and Milunovich upped their price tagets on IBM's stock price, neither analyst increased earnings estimates.  
Stephen Smith, a PaineWebber analyst, said that he believes some of the fourth quarter 1996 and 1997 earnings estimates on Wall Street for the world's largest computer maker are too high.
"Obviously they have done a good job financially, but it's going to be a lot tougher for them going forward," Smith said, adding that he believes IBM has already seen the biggest positive swing in its earnings it will get from its transition to lower-cost mainframe computers based on CMOS technology.
When IBM was in the midst of a huge losses, a management upheaval and restructuring, and its first dividend cuts in 1993, its shares sunk to a low of 43, where it gained the moniker of "I've Been Mugged" by many traders on Wall Street.
Now, with a steady stream of profits and many bullish views by analysts, some market analysts are again viewing the stock as a bellwether that is also helping fuel movements in the Dow Jones Industrial average.
Cie Generale des Eaux on Tuesday launched its bid to become the main rival to state-owned France Telecom with the start a fixed-line telephone network in a residential area in this southern city.
"Local telecommunications are for CEGETEL a major strategic axis," Philippe Glotin, managing director of Generale's telecoms unit CEGETEL, told a news conference.
He said the group aims to have a market share in 2003 yielding 40 billion francs ($7.9 billion) in annual sales, of which more than half would come from mobile communications.
In mobile telecommunications, Generale already competes with France Telecom with its SFR unit and it is allied to British Telecom Plc and MCI for business services.
SFR expects to have one million customers by March 1997, Glotin said, against some 725,000 at the moment.
The local residential market is expected to grow at a moderate pace but nevertheless represent 55 billion francs in annual sales by 2003.
Glotin said he aimed at gaining a 40 percent share in mobiles, 20 percent in long-distance and 10 percent for so-called local loops, or small networks.
CEGETEL, which counts BT, Mannesmann and SBC of the United States among its owners, has received permission from the French authorities for a telecoms experiment in Nice and from the start of 1997 it will offer residential telecoms services, using DECT technology.
The version of DECT, digitally-enhanced cordless telephone, applied in Nice uses radio waves to connect buildings to a telephone switch while the connections inside the building are of the classical type using a telephone socket.
DECT is also available in totally wireless versions.
The Nice experiment is small, with Glotin expecting 1,000 to 3,000 subscribers by the end of 1997, but it is a precursor of CEGETEL's assault on France Telecom and the company would invest three billion francs in local loops with radio links in the coming years to hone its skills ahead of market liberalisation in 1998.
A DECT service in Paris is expected to be ready in 1998 as the biggest part of an initial series of 30 towns which will add up to a population of some 10 million inhabitants.
In Nice, subscribers pay between 20 and 50 francs per month for a subscription, get a 10 percent discount on calls using the France Telecom network and pay about 0.22 francs per minute for local calls.
The CEGETEL shareholders will inject 6.8 billion francs at the start of 1997 to fund investments. Glotin said that the final make-up of CEGETEL's sharecapital would be known by year-end but he said it would be very close to the October agreement with BT taking 25 percent, SBC 15 percent and Mannesmann 10 percent.
"Changes are within the five percent limit," he said.
Glotin said that the success of CEGETEL, or any other rival to France Telecom in France, depended to a large extent on the interconnection costs and other payments telecom operators have to make to France Telecom to use its installations.
Telecommunications minister Francois Fillon has started a wide consultation, set to end on November 30, in order to establish in early 1997 a price list of the services France Telecom can provide to its rivals.
"The level of the interconnection costs for us means either the right to live of the right to die," Glotin said.
Another future rival to France Telecom is building and communications group Bouygues which has teamed up with Italy's STET.
London Electricity on Tuesday became the latest British regional electricity company (Rec) to attract bid speculation after U.S. firm Entergy was reported to be mulling a 1.2 billion pound ($2 billion) bid.
London Electricity declined comment on a report in the Wall Street Journal Europe that confidential documents showed the U.S. company was seeking 1.1 billion pounds to acquire an unnamed British electricity firm whose financial profile matched that of London Electricity.
Entergy told Reuters that any talks with another party were "too early in the scheme of things to be really meaningful."
"As far as specifying a target of that interest, we're not simply going to comment on what has been speculated and rumoured," Entergy spokesman Patrick Sweeney said.
However, he declined to deny the Wall Street Journal Europe article.
Shares in London Electicity touched a high of 671 pence before easing back to close at 667 pence, up 30-1/2 pence. The newspaper article said confidential Entergy company documents referred to used a code name "Atlantic" for the target company whose financial profile met that of London Electricity on a number of points.
The Journal said the bid was assumed in the documents to be for around 700 pence per share. The newspaper quoted Entergy's Sweeney as saying Entergy was interested in the British market and "obviously if you're interested, one of the results could be an acquisition."
The article followed a denial by Entergy on Monday of a report in Britain's Sunday Telegraph newspaper that the U.S. firm was considering a bid for Yorkshire Electricity Group Plc. The electricity sector has seen a flurry of bid speculation recently over the five remaining independent Recs. Northern Electric currently faces its second hostile offer in less than two years as it tries to fend off a $1.225 billion ($1=.5994 Pound)
The French government has cleared the way for state-owned Air France to buy Boeing long-haul passenger jets from the United states, as well as similar planes from French-based Airbus, an official source said on Tuesday.
The source told Reuters the clearance would come when the airline's board members meet on Wednesday to decide on its fleet acquisition after reports that the government would insist that the French flag carrier should get all its long-haul needs from French-based Airbus.
"We are inclined to a balanced solution between Airbus and Boeing," said the source on Tuesday, speaking on condition of anonymity. "There should an agreement tomorrow."
The business newspaper Les Echos reported earlier on Tuesday that a committee of the Air France board was expected on Wednesday to recommend purchase of 10 Airbus A340-300 and 10 Boeing 777-200 jets for its long-range fleet,
Two other sources close to the talks said the split purchase was expected to be approved.
Transport minister Bernard Pons had so far been pushing airline chairman Christian Blanc into buying exclusively from French-based Airbus Industrie, rather than mixing the purchase with archrival Boeing, industry and union sources have said.
Apart from the symbolic value of the French flag carrier, which has received 20 billion francs ($4 billion) in state funds, buying a French-made product, the Boeing 777 and Airbus 340 are considered by some in the aerospace industry to be competing products.
But a crucial factor in Blanc's decision to press ahead with the Boeing buy was a previous order for seven 767-300 and eight 737-500 aircraft due for delivery between 1999 and 2001. Les Echos said a clause in the sale contract allowed conversion of these planes to other types.
That order was worth around $874 million and Air France would now like to use the option to convert to Boeing 777s. Otherwise it stood to lose its deposit if it reneged on the deal to buy the smaller planes, a second source familiar with the talks said.
A Transport Ministry spokeswoman said Blanc had met Pons on Monday to explain the company's position.
Air France and Airbus declined to comment.
An aerospace executive said the cost of introducing to the fleet a new plane such as the giant 777 twinjet would be an estimated $40 million and mean a broader range of aircraft to maintain, and therefore increasing costs.
The industry will look carefully to see whether Air France will place orders or options on its aircraft, as the airline could use a conversion option for a planned "stretched" version of the Airbus A340, termed the A340-600, and thus become a launch customer for the programme.
Airbus has made studies of the A340-600 a top priority, as it would boost capacity to 375 passengers in three classes from 295 in the current A340-300 version. The new plane would rival the Boeing 777-300, which seats between 368 amd 394, and older models of Boeing's cashcow, the 747 jumbo.
Boeing currently enjoys a monopoly in the large capacity segment, which Airbus is determined to rival with its own products.
Air France already flies the A340, which is a long-range, wide-body aircraft. ($1=5.086 French Franc)
General Motors Corp. said Tuesday it signed a memorandum of understanding to sell four parts plants to a new company that plans to be major auto industry supplier with more than $1 billion in annual sales.
The new company, Peregrine Inc., was formed by the New York investment firm Joseph Littlejohn &amp; Levy and auto industry executive Edward Gulda. No terms were announced for the deal, which had been expected for months.
"Peregrine will be one of North America's premier automotive supply companies," Gulda said in a statement. "We expect to see signficant growth in the years ahead."
Gulda is a former chief executive officer of Kelsey-Hayes, a brake systems maker that is part of LucasVarity Plc.
The new company, to be based in Southfield, Mich., will pursue business with all car and truck manufacturers in North America and internationally, he said.
Peregrine said that, following a final agreement expected by the end of 1996, it will sign a supply agreement with GM to address "current and future business."
The four plants produce a variety of interior parts, including hinges, door panels and instrument panels, and generate combined revenue of about $1 billion a year. Hourly and salaried workers at the plants total about 5,500.
Two of the plants, in Livonia and Flint, Mich., are part of GM's Delphi Interior &amp; Lighting Systems unit. The other two, a fabrication plant in Oshawa, Ontario, and a trim plant in Windsor, Ontario, report to both Delphi and GM of Canada.
The Michigan plants had been on a list of 12 U.S. Delphi operations GM had identified as being troubled facilities.
Sale of the Canadian plants became an issue in the three-week strike by members of the Canadian Auto Workers union. In the end, GM won the right to sell the two plants.
Workers not kept on by the new owner will be offered jobs at other GM facilities.
Peregrine said in a statement that hourly workers at the four plants who are retained will be covered by the 1996 master contracts with the United Auto Workers and Canadian Auto Workers unions.
Wages, pensions and benefits for salaried and hourly workers will be about the same as they had been under GM, it said.
Peregrine will be financed with equity from Joseph Littlejohn &amp; Levy Fund II, a private partnership formed to make investments in consolidating industries and corporate divestitures.
Peregrine said it does not expect to incur debt other than for working capital needs.
Shares in EMI Plc, one of the world's five music majors, climbed on Tuesday after the company said that long-term prospects for the stuttering global music market were positive.
EMI, which demerged from rentals company Thorn Plc three months ago, said profit before tax and exceptional items rose 9.4 percent to 112.5 million pounds ($188.4 million) in the six months to September 30. Net interim dividend per share increased by 12.7 percent to eight pence.
EMI shares, under pressure in recent weeks on fears that music sales were faltering after a decade of strong growth, added 15p to 1,286p in a generally lower market.
"These are excellent interim results from the EMI Group," chairman Sir Colin Southgate said in a statement.
"They have been achieved against a background of variable growth in the major markets and mixed results from our competitors," he added. "The increase in the interim dividend reflects our confidence in the long-term health of the music industry and EMI's position within it."
Finance Director Simon Duffy said EMI remained confident that the global music business would continue to grow by some 6-8 percent annually in the medium to long-term.
"This year is looking a little bit below that level," said Duffy, saying that markets were patchy but that overall first half industry growth had been 5.5 percent. However, he added that the impact was diluted by the strength of sterling.
The market's sluggishness has recently been reflected by 100 layoffs at various labels within Warner Music and 400 job cuts at PolyGram NV -- another of the top five in the world music business.
EMI said that sales in the United States were almost flat and declined slightly in France. But this was offset by improvements in Japan, Britain and Germany while Southeast Asia and Latin America boasted particularly large gains.
Turnover from the EMI Music division was down marginally at around 1.1 billion pounds but improved margins helped to boost operating profits to 131.9 million pounds from 124.6 million.
The HMV division, grouping record and book stores chains, had an operating loss of 11 million pounds which the company said was in line with expectations as its international expansion continued.
EMI said major releases for the key pre-Christmas quarter included the third and final Beatles Anthology album, which entered the American charts at number one. It is also releasing a triple album from The Artist Formerly Known as Prince and the debut from British newcomers the Spice Girls. ($1=.5970 Pound)
British health and industrial gases giant BOC Group Plc reported its best-ever set of full-year profits on Tuesday, dispelling some of the gloom which has settled over its share price in recent months.
BOC, one of the world's biggest suppliers of specialist gases, saw profits surge 11 percent to 444.9 million pounds ($745 million) despite problems caused by a stronger pound and a deterioration in the performance of its health-care business.
Sales climbed seven percent to just over 4.0 billion pounds.
The outcome was at the top-end of analysts' forecasts, which had been pared down after BOC issued cautious noises about its two non-core operations, health and industrial vacuums, along with third-quarter results on August 13.
Shares in the group, which have fallen from more than 940 pence since mid-June and touched 12-month lows on Monday ahead of the results, climbd 29 pence to 865 in early afternoon trading.
Industrial gases, which are used in industries as varied as foods, chemicals, metallurgy and water purification, saw operating profits rise nine percent to 408.3 million pounds on sales up 6.8 percent to 2.8 billion pounds.
In an interview with Reuters, chief executive Danny Rosenkranz said he expected profit margins in gases to improve by about two percentage points over the "next three to four years" from the 14.5 percent achieved in the year ended in September.
He said a major factor behind the improvement would be the huge increase in the number of 15-year supply contracts BOC has won in the U.S, which entail building gas-making plants next to customers such as steel works in return for guaranteed sales.
The Ohmeda health division, hit by continued falls in the price of BOC's once top-selling anaesthetic gas Forane and weak U.S. demand for anaesthetic machinery, was the only BOC unit to see operating profits fall, dropping 11 percent to 53.1 million pounds.
Rosenkranz said Ohmeda would continue to have a difficult time in the six months to March 1997 but should turn in a flat performance for the year as a whole, and "...starting next year this thing ought to start climbing.
The market had also been braced for a poor performance at Edwards Vacuum Products, whose machinery creates super-clean environments for industry, because of a downturn in the overcrowded semi-conductor market.
In the event the loose alliance of business known as vacuum and distribution posted a 28 percent gain in full-year operating profit to 90.3 million pounds, although the gain in the fourth-quarter had slowed to just eight percent as the impact of a fall-off in semi-conductor orders started to bite.
Rosenkranz pointed to tentative signs of a pick-up in the computer industry, such as a rise in the October U.S. industry book-to-bill ratio. Nevertheless he said the vacuum business "will see a decline in profits this year", but did not predict its extent.
Uncertainty also remains over the impact of sterling, whose newfound strength ate into the gain in fourth-quarter profits, trimming their advance by three percentage points to around nine-percent.
Rosenkranz warned that stronger sterling "is bound to hit profits" if it continues. ($1=.5970 Pound)
London Electricity on Tuesday became the latest British regional electricity company (Rec) to attract bid speculation after U.S. Entergy was reported to be planning a 1.2 billion pound ($2 billion) bid.
London Electricity declined comment on the report in the Wall Street Journal Europe.
"It is speculation and obviously we can't comment on a rumour," a London Electricity spokeswoman said.
Shares in the company leapt to a high of 665 pence before easing back to 662-1/2 pence, up 26 pence by 1115 GMT.
The Wall Street Journal Europe said on Tuesday that a 1.2 billion pound bid for the Rec could be in the offing.
It said confidential Entergy company documents showed the company seeking 1.1 billion pounds for an acquisition.
The documents used a code name "Atlantic" for the target company whose financial profile, the newspaper said, met that of London Electricity on a number of points.
The Journal said the bid was assumed in the documents to be for around 700 pence per share.
The newspaper quoted Entergy spokesman Patrick Sweeney as saying Entergy was interested in the British market and "obviously if you're interested, one of the results could be an acquisition."
Sweeney on Monday denied to Reuters a report in The Sunday Telegraph newspaper that it was considering a bid for Yorkshire Electricity Group Plc.
But he added, "We simply don't comment on situations until they get to a point until it is prudent to do so."
The electricity sector has seen a flurry of bid speculation recently over the five remaining independent Recs.
Northern Electric currently faces its second hostile offer in less than two years as it tries to fend off a $1.225 billion bid at 630 pence per share from CE Electric, of which CalEnergy of the U.S. holds 70 percent.
Last week, East Midlands Electricity agreed to a 1.3 billion pound offer at 670 pence per share from U.S.-based Dominion Resources.
Both bids depend on approval from the British government, which has already nodded through the sale of seven of the original 12 cash-rich Recs, three of which were bought by U.S. firms attracted by the looser regulations in the British market.
But concerns that political pressures might prompt the government to block the latest batch of bids have kept share prices of both targets well below offer levels.
Northern was trading down a penny at 593 pence while East Midlands off half a penny at 617 pence.
High dividend payouts, hefty executive pay packets and head-turning takeover deals have all contributed to criticism of the electricity sector, which was privatised by the Conservative government in 1989.
The Conservatives currently lag the opposition Labour party in opinion polls and must hold a general election by May 1997.
An added concern is that approval of current bids would leave just three independent Recs -- London Electricity, Southern Electricity and Yorkshire Electricity -- which might not be adequate for watchdog Offer to use as yardsticks. ($1=.5994 Pound)
Yorkshire-based chemicals group Allied Colloids Plc said on Tuesday that its strategy of growing organically remained unchanged, despite the $390 million acquisition of CPS Chemical Co Inc of the U.S.
Chief executive David Farrar said Allied Colloids "has not been acquisitive" by tradition.
"We saw this as an opportunity that does not come along very often," Farrar said in a telephone interview with Reuters following the announcement of the purchase and interim results.  
"This is a good strategic fit for us. CPS are in the same business as us, the chemistry is similar. We have had a long association with them and have been major customers of theirs for eight years."
The move will substantially increase Allied Colloids' sales in the U.S, which already accounts for more than 30 percent of its annual turnover. CPS, which has plants in Arkansas and New Jersey, had sales of $157 million last year, some 75 percent of which were in the domestic market.  
Farrar said Allied, which provides chemicals for a wide range of industries including paper-making, minerals, textiles, oil and pharmaceuticals, remained committed to expansion in other key marekts, notably Europe and the Far East. But this would be achieved "by organic growth."
Allied Colloids believes the acquisition of CPS, which is partly being financed by a two-for-seven rights issue to raise 173 million stg, will be earnings enhancing in its first full financial yuear. It said it also expected to benefit from substantial U.S. tax credits.  
Farrar said the combined group would have a workforce of around 3,500 following the addition of CPS' 360 employees. He said CPS, which makes chemical intermediates and finished polymers for industry, will complement Allied in a number of areas, notably in coatings, paper and pollution control.
It will also add to Allied's technological base and provide new products to market through its existing 400-strong salesforce.
The rights issue and acquisition were accompanied by an upbeat statement on prospects, with Allied Colloids predicting a continued improvement in second-half sales and profits.  
First-half pretax profits rose 3.8 percent to 21.1 million stg on sales up 9 percent at 207.6 million stg.
Farrar said sharp falls in raw material costs earlier this year started to feed into second-quarter results, but their full impact would be felt in the second half. He predicted that gross profit margins would increase by 1 percentage point in the second half from the 37.5 percent seen in the first half and the 36.2 achieved in the 12 months to March.
Allied is also predicting a further pick-up in sales growth in the second half of the year, implying full-year sales of more than 430 million stg compared with 393 million a year earlier.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
McDonnell Douglas Corp. said Monday it would consider mergers and acquisitions, but not a restructuring, after the Defence Department eliminated the company from the race to build a new generation fighter jet that eventually could be worth $200 billion or more.
"We've always been interested in mergers and acquisitions and we continue to look at them," Chief Executive Officer Harry Stonecipher said in an interview with CNBC financial television network.
The Pentagon on Saturday awarded four-year contracts to Boeing and Lockheed Martin Corp. to develop prototype fighter jets for the early 21st century for the U.S. Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps and the British Royal Navy.
The decision was a blow to St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas, the nation's second-largest defence contractor and a long-time leader in fighter jets, and could force it to restructure, seek a merger or become more acquisition-minded, industry analysts said.
McDonnell Douglas had reportedly had preliminary merger discussions with Boeing Co. earlier this year. Stonecipher would not comment on any specific mergers or acquisitions.
"I don't think Boeing would be on our radar screen," he said regarding a possible acquisition. "We may be on theirs."
Stonecipher also said he would be interested in trading McDonnell Douglas commercial aircraft assets for Boeing's military aircraft business, but noted there have been no talks in that area. Boeing said it did not comment on rumours or speculation about mergers and acquisitions.
Already the smallest of the three major commercial jet makers, McDonnell said last month it would not continue to compete against Boeing and Europe's Airbus Industrie in the market for the biggest commercial jetliners.
British and U.S. forces have announced plans to buy 3,000 of the new generation fighter jets, with initial delivery scheduled for 2008.
With potential export sales of another 2,000 jets and additional funding for development and support, the programme could be worth $200 billion to $500 billion over the coming decades, industry executives said.
McDonnell Douglas stock lost $4.25 to $51.50 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was one of the biggest losers of the day. Boeing rose $1.50 to $93.25 and Lockheed Martin rose $1.875 to $95.625, also on the NYSE.
John Modzelewski, an analyst at PaineWebber, said the decision could force St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas to seek acquisitions more aggressively to help build its business, or into a merger with another defence or aerospace company.
"Everything's back on the table," Modzelewski said.
In the past year, McDonnell Douglas has been the subject of rumoured talks with Boeing, Rockwell International Corp. and Raytheon Co.
"This will be something of a wakeup call," CS First Boston analyst Peter Aseritis said. "It's a fairly sharp and dramatic blow to McDonnell Douglas and I would venture to guess one they probably didn't see coming."
PaineWebber's Modzelewski said, "Without having the internal growth such as joint strike fighter would give them, they're going to have to grow through acquisition." That could include Texas Instruments Inc.'s defence electronics business, which is for sale, according to published reports.
"Texas Instruments is a very interesting property if in fact it is for sale," Stonecipher said in repsonse to a question about the defence electronics business.
In a statement to employees Monday, Stonecipher noted the company's backlog of aircraft orders to the military at home and abroad and said it was pursuing other orders. The company has a $46 billion order backlog, a spokesman said.
"This decision does not mean we are out of the military aircraft business," Stonecipher said.
McDonnell currently builds the Air Force F-15 fighter and the Navy-Marine F-18E/F as well as the C-17 military cargo plane. Both the F-15 and the F-18 are to be replaced by the joint strike fighter in the next century.
Microsoft Corp said on Monday it had sent the final version of Office 97 -- a product that is expected to be its biggest revenue generator in 1997 -- to factories and will have it in stores within weeks.
The product, a package of Microsoft's top-selling business programs, is Microsoft's biggest new product since the release of Windows 95, and is expected by analysts to increase the company's revenue by about 15 to 20 percent this year.
About half of Microsoft's $8 billion in revenue came from business applications last year.
"People on the (Office 97) development team were jumping in the fountain this afternoon," just after Microsoft sent the final version to manufacturing, said Pete Higgins, Microsoft group vice president of applications.
The new version, which had been in development for more than two years, features better ties to the Internet, help tools that guide computer users through common tasks and a new component called Outlook, which manages computer users' documents, appointments, contacts and electronic mail.  
Higgins said the standard edition of Office 97 will cost about $239 for users of existing versions of Office. He said Office 97 will be available on a limited basis in December, and more broadly in early January.
Foreign versions of the product will be available a month to six months later, he said.
Analysts said the new version has several significant features that could goad corporate computer buyers to upgrade.
"It will take some time to catch on because it requires a high-end PC," said Mary Meeker, an analyst at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "But I think products like these are going to drive PC sales."
On Sunday, International Business Machine Corp's Lotus Development Corp unveiled its own suite of office applications, called SmartSuite 97, which it said would begin shipping in January.
Microsoft has roughly 70 percent of the market by unit volume, followed by Lotus with 23 percent, according to recent market research data.
Cie Generale des Eaux on Tuesday launched its bid to become the main rival to state-owned France Telecom with the start a fixed telephone network in a residential quarter in the southern city of Nice.
Philippe Glotin, managing director of Generale's telecoms unit Cegetel, said the group aims to have a market share in 2003 yielding 40 billion francs ($7.9 billion) in annual sales, of which more than half would come from mobile communications.
In mobile telecommunications, Generale already competes with France Telecom with its SFR unit and it is allied to British Telecom Plc and MCI for business services.
SFR expects to have one million customers by March 1997, Glotin said.
The local residential market is expected to grow at a moderate pace but nevertheless represent 55 billion francs in 2003.
Glotin said he aimed at gaining a 40 percent share in mobiles, 20 percent in long-distance and 10 percent for so-called local loops, or small networks.
Cegetel, which counts BT, Mannesmann and SBC of the United States among its owners, has received permission from the French authorities for a telecoms experiment in Nice and from the start of 1997 it will offer residential telecoms services, using the DECT technology.
DECT, digitally-enhanced cordless telephone, uses radio waves to connect buildings to a telephone switch, while the connections inside the building are of the classical type using a telephone socket.
DECT is also available in totally wireless versions but the Nice experiment will not use this. DECT can handle high capacities and is relatively secure as far as privacy of calls is concerned.
Glotin said that Nice was the precursor of Cegetel's assault on France Telecom and the company would invest three billion francs in Nice and Paris to hone its skills ahead of market liberalisation in 1998. The Paris service is expected to be ready in 1998.
Cegetel is aiming to start its business in some 30 towns which will add up to a population of some 10 million inhabitants.
To part finance this five-year plan, Cegetel shareholders will inject 6.8 billion francs into the company at the start of 1997.
In business services, Cegetel is considering putting a local loop in the La Defense office complex on the Paris outskirts -- where parent Generale des Eaux is the main building developer.
In that area, MFS Communications Ltd already offers business services with a local loop in competition to France Telecom.
Glotin said that the success of Cegetel, or any other rival to France Telecom in France, depended to a large extent on the interconnection costs and other payments telecom operators have to make to France Telecom to use its installations.
Telecommunications minister Francois Fillon has started a wide consultation, set to end on November 30, in order to establish in early 1997 a price list of the services France Telecom can provide to its rivals.
"The level of the interconnection costs for us means either the right to live of the right to die," Glotin said.
Other future rivals for France Telecom are building and communications group Bouygues which has teamed up with Italy's STET. Bouygues started France's third mobile telecommunications service earlier this year.
AT&amp;T has also expressed a desire to become a major force in the French market.
Cie Generale des Eaux on Tuesday launched its bid to become the main rival to state-owned France Telecom with the start a fixed telephone network in a residential quarter in the southern city of Nice.
Philippe Glotin, managing director of Generale's telecoms unit Cegetel, said the group aims to have a market share in 2003 yielding 40 billion francs ($7.9 billion) in annual sales, of which more than half would come from mobile communications.
In mobile telecommunications, Generale already competes with France Telecom with its SFR unit and it is allied to British Telecom Plc and MCI for business services.
The local residential market is expected to grow at a moderate pace but nevertheless represent 55 billion francs in 2003.
Glotin said he aimed at gaining a 40 percent share in mobiles, 20 percent in long-distance and 10 percent for so-called local loops, or small networks.
Cegetel, which counts BT, Mannesmann and SBC of the United States among its owners, has received permission from the French authorities for a telecoms experiment in Nice and from the start of 1997 it will offer residential telecoms services, using the DECT technology.
DECT, digitally-enhanced cordless telephone, uses radio waves to connect buildings to a telephone switch, while the connections inside the building are of the classical type using a telephone socket.
DECT is also available in totally wireless versions but the Nice experiment will not use this. DECT can handle high capacities and is relatively secure as far as privacy of calls is concerned.
Glotin said that Nice was the precursor of Cegetel's assault on France Telecom and the company would invest three billion francs in Nice and somewhere in central France to hone its skills ahead of the liberalisation of the market in 1998.
Cegetel is aiming to start its business in some 30 towns which will add up to a population of some 10 million inhabitants.
To part finance this five-year plan, Cegetel shareholders will inject 6.8 billion francs into the company at the start of 1997.
In business services, Cegetel is considering putting a local loop in the La Defense office complex on the Paris outskirts -- where parent Generale des Eaux is the main building developer.
In that area, MFS Communications Ltd already offers business services with a local loop in competition to France Telecom.
Glotin said that the success of Cegetel, or any other rival to France Telecom in France, depended to a large extent on the interconnection costs and other payments telecom operators have to make to France Telecom to use its installations.
Telecommunications minister Francois Fillon has started a wide consultation, set to end on November 30, in order to establish in early 1997 a price list of the services France Telecom can provide to its rivals.
"The level of the interconnection costs for us means either the right to live of the right to die," Glotin said.
Other future rivals for France Telecom are building and communications group Bouygues which has teamed up with Italy's STET. Bouygues started France's third mobile telecommunications service earlier this year.
AT&amp;T has also expressed a desire to become a major force in the France market. ($ = 5.080 French Francs)
British dairy and distribution company Unigate Plc is keen to acquire food and distribution companies in Europe, said finance director John Worby.
"We are actively seeking acquisitions. We continue to look at acquisitions of all sizes in both the food and distribution area in Western Europe," Worby told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday.
"We talk about small, medium and large. Medium is in the area of 50 to 150 million. We will continue to make small acquisitions of the in-fill, bolt-on type nature," he said.  
Unigate, which acquired Kraft's European margarine and spreads business in August for some 77 million stg, reported net cash held of 57.9 million at September 30.
The cash outflow for the half year of 110.4 million stg includes 71.4 million spent on acquisitions, net of disposals. The group sold its U.S. restaurant business Black-eyed Pea for 42 million stg in July.
The sale of Taco Bueno and Casa Bonita for 27 million since the half-year stage enables the company to focus on developing its core European food and distribution business.  
The company also sold its minority stake in Dutch food company Nutricia for 360 million stg in January.Cash at the bank and in hand amounted to 292 million at the half-year stage. Worby declined to say whether the company was in talks with any third parties nor would he be drawn on the specific type of acquisition Unigate is after.
At an operational level Worby said he expects the dairy side of the business to continue to suffer from weak commodity prices in the second half of the year. Dairy reported profits down 2.9 million stg at 17.6 million due to lower prices for butter and milk powders which cost Unigate about 4.0 million in the period.  
But from October 1 Unigate has seen a small reduction in raw milk prices, said Worby.
"In fresh foods, trading is still reasonably tough in the UK retail environment. We have seen high pig prices in the first half which squeezed margins but we expect some easing in that area," he said.
Unigate's European foods division reported profits up 3.1 million at 44.1 million in the first half, with fresh foods increasing its profits from 20.5 million to 26.5 million stg.
The improvement was especially helped by the contribution from the August acquisition of Kraft's margarines and spreads business.
Malton, the bacon and pork processing business, also benefitted from recent acquisitions.
In the half year a total of 100 million was spent on acquisitions, including 20 million on the Hargrave pork products business to further strengthen Malton and 79 million in buying Kraft's Vitalite and Golden Churn brands to add to St Ivel's existing brands -- Gold and Utterly Butterly.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Health and industrial gases specialist BOC Group Plc said on Tuesday that its troubled healthcare business is likely to turn in a flat performance in the current year to Sept 1997 before recovering.
In a telephone interview with Reuters following publication of the group's best-ever full-year profit figures, chief executive Danny Rosenkranz said the Ohmeda health business faced another challenging 12 months in tough U.S. markets.  
The anaesthetic gas and machinery supplier will be "flat this year, but starting next year this thing ought to start climbing," said Rosenkranz.
The health division, hit by continued falls in the price of BOC's once top-selling anaesthetic gas Forane and weak U.S. demand for anaesthetic machinery, was the only BOC unit to see operating profits fall, dropping 11 percent to 53.1 million stg.
Solid gains in the rest of BOC's business saw full-year pre-tax profits rise by 10.6 percent to 444.9 million stg, right at the top of analysts' forecasts, while sales climbed 6.7 percent to just over 4.0 billion stg.  
The strong pound cut the advance in fourth-quarter pre-tax profits by three percentage points to around nine-percent, and Rosenkranz warned that stronger sterling "is bound to hit profits" if it continues.
Despite its laggardly performance, the fall in profits at healthcare was less steep than many analysts had feared after a warning from BOC at the end of the third quarter, which led to a rash of earnings downgrades.
Rosenkranz said the division, which accounted for less than 13 percent of BOC's 4.0 billion stg of sales, had performed "much better" in the fourth quarter.  
"You can go from being a bum to a hero very fast," he said.
The market had also been braced for a poor performance at Edwards Vaccum Products, whose machinery creates super-clean environments for industry, because of a downturn in the overcrowded semi-conductor market.
In the event the loose alliance of business known as vaccuum and distribution posted a 28 percent gain in full-year operating profit to 90.3 million stg, although the gain in the fourth-quarter had slowed to just eight percent as the impact of a fall-off in semi-conductor orders started to bite.  
Rosenkranz pointed to tentative signs of a pick up in the computer industry, such as a rise in the October U.S. industry book-to-bill ratio. But he said the vacuum business "will see a decline in profits this year", but did not predict its extent.
In the core industrial gases business, where operating profits rose 9 percent to 408.3 million stg on sales up 6.8 percent to 2.8 billion stg, Rosenkranz said he expected profit margins to rise by about 2 percentage points over the "next three to four years."
Margins edged up to 14.5 percent of sales in the year ended in September from 14.2 percent.  
A major factor behind the improvement will be the huge increase in the number of 15-year supply contracts BOC has won in the U.S. These entail BOC building gas-making plants next to customers such as steel works, in return for guaranteed sales.
The up-front costs involved in these contracts helped to push BOC's capital spending up to 708 million stg in the year just ended, and Rosenkranz said "I think it will be higher this year."
Outside the U.S, BOC is targeting investment in the Pacific region, notably in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia. Rosenkranz said BOC is also "looking pretty hard at India" where it could invest several hundred million pounds over the next few years.
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
British National Lottery operator Camelot  LOTT.CN on Tuesday posted lower interim profits as income from scratchcard sales fell by over 450 million pounds ($750 million).
Camelot chief executive Tim Holley also told Reuters that the planned second weekly National Lottery draw would be launched on February 5 and be held every Wednesday thereafter. Camelot, which has faced a storm of criticism over its jackpot earnings since the lottery was launched two years ago, reported pre-tax profits of 31.5 million pounds on sales of 2.1 billion pounds for the 24 weeks to September 14.
This compares with pre-tax profit of 36.2 million pounds and sales of 2.51 billion pounds in the same period a year ago.
Camelot's five shareholding companies -- Cadbury Schweppes, De La Rue, GTech UK, Racal Electronics and ICL shared a total dividend payount of 10 million pounds, up from 9.5 million.
Sales for the weekly National Lottery game rose two percent to 1.68 billion pounds. Two thirds of the adult population regularly buy tickets for the Saturday draw, an event which is televised live and has become a ritual for many Britons.
But sales of Camelot's "Instants" scratchcards fell from 871 million pounds last year to 419 million this time.
Camelot executives said that the decline in scratchcard sales was to be expected as the initial enthusiasm generated by their introduction in March 1995 waned.
"Mirroring the experience of lotteries worldwide, sales of Instants have fallen since their launch and are now settled at around 17 million pounds per week," Chairman Sir George Russell said in a statement.
Chief executive Holley said that the second weekly draw should boost sales of National Lottery game tickets by 15-20 percent from their current weekly average of 69 million.
Camelot said that over one billion pounds -- 50 percent of turnover -- had been handed out in prize money in the first half and that 567 million pounds had gone to "Good Causes" -- including charities and projects in sports and the arts.
Camelot, which has been granted a seven-year licence, said that over 40 percent of turnover went to "Good Causes" and the governnment in duties, making it the world's most efficient lottery operator.
Profit after tax is just under one percent of total sales and Holley dismissed criticisms of Camelot's performance.
"I think we have a slight problem in this country with success," he said, adding that foreign lottery companies were bemused by the atacks on Camelot.
The group confirmed plans to set up The Camelot Foundation to support organisations helping the disadvantaged and disabled.
Camelot will plough five million pounds into the foundation in its first year, which it said would make it one of the largest donors to charities among major British companies. ($1=.5994 Pound)
Australia's largest retailer, Coles Myer Ltd, forecast a rejuvenation in its profit outlook at its annual meeting on Tuesday but failed to stop shareholders launching into a six-hour tirade aimed at Coles' directors.
The prime target was former executive chairman Solomon Lew, who was re-elected as a director with the help of proxy votes after the floor of the meeting overwhelmingly rejected his re-election. Coles Chairman Nobby Clark, who was jeered when he tried to cut short debate on Lew's re-election, said Coles was seeing something of a rejuvenation in its businesses.  
"We're on the edge of something pretty good," Clark told the annual meeting. "We do have an upside and I'm confident we can do better for you," he said.
"First quarter performance is running above expectations and we hope that can continue," he said, adding that provided Christmas trading was reasonable, Coles Myer's bottom line results should improve in 1996/97.
China unveiled on Tuesday the country's first major shipping exchange which it hopes will consolidate and standardise ship chartering and cargo fixing in East China and be a focus for the shipping trade nationwide.
Officials told a news conference that all shipping and freight companies in the east China region had been told to move their business as soon as possible to the new Shanghai Shipping Exchange.
Like the Baltic Exchange in London, the Shanghai Shipping Exchange will allow ship owners and charterers to arrange deals and fix prices for carrying cargoes.
The exchange, which has the direct support from the Beijing authorities, has been under preparation for two years and has as its founding members 116 companies, mostly shipping firms in Shanghai and the adjacent provinces of Zhejiang and Jiangsu.
"The foundation of the exchange shows the government's determination to make Shanghai into an international shipping centre," said Zhang Jinxiang, an official with China's biggest shipping firm, COSCO.
"Other world shipping centres such as London and New York also have such exchanges," Zhang added. "With China's fast-growing economy and Shanghai's good location, the exchange should help attract more shipping companies here."
Zhu Yongguang, a senior Ministry of Communications official told the news conference that the Shanghai exchange was one of a number of shipping and freight exchanges planned for China.
"There will be Tianjin in the north, Shanghai in the east, Guangzhou in the south and Wuhan inland. But the focus of the business nationwide will be the Shanghai exchange," he said.
Zhu declined to speculate on how much business the exchange would attract, but said:
"This will be a gradual thing. The shipping companies (in East China) will be expected to move their business to the exchange, but it won't happen overnight."
Members of the exchange include ship-owners, mostly state-run companies in Shanghai and surrounding areas, and freight forwarders.
The exchange will handle international cargo-fixing, but most of the business in the initial stages is expected to be domestic.
The establishment of the exchange was welcomed by an official for Shanghai Haixing Shipping Co, China's second-largest shipping company and its largest in domestic trade.
"The exchange may help cut illegal competition in the shipping market," the official said. "At present, there are some small shipping firms which make use of improper relationships or offer high commissions to get business."
Exchange officials said the exchange was under the supervision of the Ministry of Communications and the Shanghai city government and would be treated for the foreseeable future as "experimental", in line with other new markets in China.
Chinese activists, in a statement on Tuesday hours ahead of a visit by the U.S. Secretary of State, protested against American backing for Japan's bid to become a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council.
"We hold that Japan is not qualified to become a permanent member of the Security Council of the United Nations," the activists said in a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who is due to arrive in Beijing later on Tuesday for a three-day visit.
The letter, signed by 15 activists, said they opposed Japan becoming a permanent member of the Security Council because many Japanese politicians had been reluctant to apologise for its war atrocities and had tried to whitewash history.
China says more than 35 million people were killed or wounded during Japan's invasion and occupation of most of China from the early 1930s to 1945.
"(We) strongly protest the U.S. government supporting Japan's (bid) to become a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council to draw Japan over to its side," said the letter, a copy of which was made available to Reuters.
Tong Zeng, a leader of the group, said he would forward the letter to Christopher through the U.S. embassy in Beijing.
The Chinese government, eager for more low-interest loans from Japan, has been reluctant to antagonise Tokyo and has not taken a public stance on the issue.
The United States has long supported giving Japan and Germany permanent seats on the Security Council.
The council currently consists of five permanent members that were the main victors in World War Two -- the United States, Russia, Britain, China and France -- and 10 non-permanent members who serve two-year terms.
Most Chinese have been slow to forgive Japan's war past.
"U.S. backing for Japan's (bid)...will undoubtedly encourage the resurrection of Japanese militarism and bring a new threat to the peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region," the letter said.
The anti-Japanese activists recounted what they said were U.S. mistakes, including not putting Emperor Hirohito on trial after the end of World War Two in 1945.
"After the end of the war, the United States harmed the feelings of the Chinese people several times...sheltering Japan's top war criminal Emperor Hirohito," the letter said. Hirohito died in 1989.
The activists also faulted the United States for "ignoring historical facts" and handing disputed islands in the East China Sea to Japan in 1971.
Sino-Japanese ties were strained this year over the islands, which Beijing calls the Diaoyus and Tokyo the Senkakus.
A Japanese right-wing group built a makeshift lighthouse on one of the islands in July, triggering anti-Japanese demonstrations in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Taiwan's Nationalist rulers, who lost the Chinese civil war to the Communists in 1949, also claim the islands. Activists in the British colony of Hong Kong, which reverts to Chinese rule in 1997, have opposed Japan's territorial claims.
Emotions were fanned in September when a Hong Kong activist drowned after he jumped into stormy waters around the islands to demonstrate support for Chinese claims.
The story of Sea Launch sounds like the daring fiction of a James Bond movie -- with corporate giants from Russia, the United States, Norway and Ukraine joining forces to build the ultimate in space technology, firing satellite rockets into space from the Pacific Ocean.
The cost is 350 million pounds ($583.2 million), funded by a consortium of four companies, joining the East and West in a deal that claims it can undercut the cost of land-based launchers including the French-led Ariane, recently embarrassed by a rocket explosion, and NASA.
The lead Sea Launch investor is Boeing Co.'s Commercial Space division, holding 40 percent, with RSC-Energia of Russia taking a 25 percent slice, Norway's Kvaerner with 20 percent and NPO-Yuzhnoye of Ukraine holding 15 percent.
At a sneak preview in Norway recently, Svein Johnsen, Sea Launch project manager from Kvaerner, joked with Russian reporters that countries that had once built technology with conflict in mind were now united in their quest for profit.
"In the name of detente," he said.
Norway's Kvaerner is the prime contractor, building the mobile seaborne rocket launch platform and the command ship.
It rescued an off-shore oil rig, which had been severely damaged in a 1988 explosion, and rebuilt it to become a floating rocket launcher that will operate under remote control from a specially built command ship.
The platform is nearing completion at Stavanger in Norway, with the command ship under construction and ready for launch next month at Govan in Scotland.
The first rocket launch is scheduled for June 1998 from a site in the Pacific Ocean.
Satellites and rockets will be assembled on the ship for transfer to the platform, which will be evacuated before liftoff.
The command ship will press the control button for firing the rocket at a distance of two or three miles. The 10,600-ton ship has the added protection of blastproof safety glass.
The Russians will provide the Zenit rockets, chosen because they can be assembled horizontally on board the command ship.
Boeing will provide project management, marketing services and run the operation for liftoff.
Asked about the risk of explosion Johnsen said, "The risk of explosion is very much related to this business. But we think that risk is very low. There are built-in safety features and it's a very sound operation from an insurance point of view."
Ignition to release of the rocket takes 4.6 seconds, with emissions from the rocket on takeoff channelled sideways.
"If the emissions didn't go sideways, the pressure could shift the platform," he said, which weighs 23,000 tons.
Confidence in the system, a world-first, has been demonstrated by a rash of early contracts.
Hughes Space and Communications International Inc. of Los Angeles has 10 launches signed. Space Systems/Loral, also from California has five booked.
The groups involved have refused to comment on how much they will charge per launch or on potential profits, with Kvaerner's Johnson only stating that its slice will be "a good return on our investment."
It will be able to fire six to eight rockets a year. The idea was originally conceived by Boeing, which had intended to fire satellites from a supertanker.
But the danger involved made the platform idea more appealing, allowing evacuation before blastoff.
Granada Group, which won control of leading British hotelier Forte 10 months ago, on Wednesday reaped the fruits of its victory when it posted a 37 percent rise in annual profits to 480 million pounds ($806 million).
Media and leisure group Granada said that it was on target to keep a promise made in the heat of the takeover battle by boosting profits at Forte by over 100 million pounds per annum from the current year.
It said it had already achieved some 40 million pounds in profit improvements at Forte. Such rapid progress lifted the pre-tax, pre-exceptional profits to that 480 million pound figure, topping most share analysts' expectations.
Turnover in the year to end-September grew by 60 percent to 3.82 billion pounds as Granada grafted on Forte's hotel and roadside restaurant businesses.
Total dividend was raised by 11 percent to 13p per share.
"The key has been the speed with which we have been able to move on the Forte businesses," said chairman Gerry Robinson.
Granada took over family-controlled Forte in a 3.9 billion pound deal earlier this year after a bitter bid battle that raged over the Christmas and New Year period 12 months ago.
Analysts were surprised at the lacklustre reaction to Granada's strong results and an upbeat statement in which it said that trading had been encouraging in the first few weeks of its new financial year.
The shares, which had gained in recent days in anticipation of bumper results, slipped 7 1/2p to 885p by mid-afternoon in a generally gloomy market.
"Granada is a cheap stock on fundamentals and is backed by good management," said Greg Feehely of Kleinwort Benson.
Granada, which runs two British commercial television stations and a chain of high street rental stores, continues to reorganise following its acqusition of Forte.
It hopes to complete the sale of a group of top international hotels and the disposal of the Welcome Break chain of British motorway service areas in early 1997.
Analysts expect the hotels to raise a total of around 900 million pounds and the service areas a further 350-400 million pounds. That would help cut net debt from 3.5 billion pounds.
Granada sold the first of the 17 Exclusive hotels on Tuesday when Hong Kong based Mandarin Oriental International Ltd bought London's Hyde Park Hotel for 86 million pounds.
