His view was shared by Paul Styles, a media expert at consultancy and accounting firm KPMG.
"Most people perceive digital bandwith to be valuable so I think there will be interest in the multiplexes," he said.
"This will not be an overnight sensation but a business to be built," he said, identifying ITV companies, cable groups and BSkyB itself as potential licence applicants.
Digital technology increases the number of channels which can be transmitted and enhances sound and picture quality. it also enables interactive services such as home shopping and home banking to be created.
Digital means converting sound and pictures into binary digits -- a series of noughts and ones -- rather than transmitting them as electric signals as now happens. A set-top box or "decoder" will be required to receive digital services.
This is also a source of controversy, as ITC officials admit that there is no current UK or European legislation to enforce a common standard for decoders.
That means that consumers could theoretically have to pay several hundred pounds (dollars) for a set-top box to receive BSkyB's digital services and then have to buy a second box a few months later to receive digital terrestrial.
British Labour Euro MP Carole Tongue on Thursday wrote to European Commissioner Martin Bangemann to demand that all set-top boxes provide a common interface for all broadcasters.
Chinese and U.S. scientists are making good progress in meetings on China's decision to ban poultry imports from the United States, a U.S. source said on Thursday.
The Chinese government banned all imports of poultry and poultry products from 10 U.S. states earlier this month for fear it carried a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI).
Although the ban has yet to be implemented -- China wanted to hear what the U.S. experts had to say first -- it threatens an export market worth around US$500 million a year.
"The first set of meetings on Wednesday were frank, candid and held in a positive atmosphere," the source, who refused to be identified, said by telephone from Beijing.
The meetings are between Washington's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) and China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ).
Two APHIS experts arrived in Beijing on Tuesday night and would stay in Beijing for as long as it took to solve the problem, the U.S. source said.
"There is no timetable," the source close to the talks said. "We are willing to take as much time as is needed in order to make sure the Chinese have as much information as they can to make an informed decision based on good science."
Meetings had already been scheduled for Thursday and would, if necessary, continue on Friday, he added.
APHIS experts, U.S. diplomats and meat industry executives say HPAI does not exist in commerical flocks in the United States, having been eradicated in the mid-1980s.
U.S. sources have said Chinese quarantine officials seem to have confused HPAI with the less-virulent avian influenza, or AI, which one APHIS source likened to the common cold.
Sources have said CAPQ officials would be joined by experts from other government departments for what sounded like a series of lectures and presentations by the APHIS team.
The U.S. source in Beijing said the Chinese had so far been receptive and were taking a "very positive approach".
U.S. sources said the plan was to concentrate initially on the technical side of the dispute before raising trade issues.
If the dispute goes beyond the differences the two countries have in interpreting science, Beijing could find itself accused of using bad science as a non-tariff trade barrier.
This is the case with wheat. China refuses to import wheat from specific areas of the United States because it cannot be guaranteed free of a fungus called TCK smut.
Washington says the fungus is harmless and that Beijing's policy of zero tolerance is a barrier to an extra 500,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat sales a year to China.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
The rise in the London Metal Exchange (LME) zinc price to a five-month high in Asia on Thursday will benefit China, one of the major sources of the metal throughout the Far East, regional traders said.
"It would be good for China because they have a lot of physical metal and they have a lot to sell from producers on the hedge side," a trader with a Chinese company said.
"They might buy from time to time to speculate a bit but basically they are a producer," he said.  
Three month LME zinc hit a five-month high of $1,064/$1,069 a tonne on Thursday, up from the metal's close at $1,054 in London on Wednesday boosted by rumours that famed financier George Soros was making a speculative play in the market.
Few traders in the region expressed surprise at the talk that a large, losing long position once held by the Spanish producer Asturiana de Zinc had been liquidated or transferred and that Soros had bought zinc or zinc-related equities.  
One trader said he heared rumours months ago Soros was buying shares in zinc producers, and had been expected to buy into the metal once his share positions were finalised.
"I think that if Soros is involved the price will move," the source in Singapore said.
And as the world price moves up, so will the Chinese price as regional consumers have few other sources, traders said.
China's exports of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys in the first nine months of 1996 were up 16.7 percent on the same period of 1995, to 153,660 tonnes, according to customs figures.
September's exports alone were 19,165 tonnes, they show.  
China's official base metals industry newspaper, China Nonferrous Metals News, estimated late last year that total 1995 zinc production would be 1.05 million tonnes.
With domestic demand expected to be 700,000 tonnes and essential exports to reach 300,000 tonnes, the market should be kept in balance, it said.
China National Nonferrous Metals Industry Corp (CNNC) said earlier this year that domestic zinc demand would reach 900,000 tonnes by 2000, from 881,600 in 1994 and 465,700 in 1990.  
Supply annually outstripped demand for the metal, CNNC said, with a surplus in 1994 of 142,800 tonnes. Chinese zinc smelter capacity is around 1.2 million tonnes a year.
Traders said Chinese zinc goes to Taiwan -- a big user with total imports of around 200,000 tonnes a year -- Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea and Thailand.
Trading sources in Hong Kong, China and Singapore said demand throughout the region remained strong, riding the back of rampant economic development.  
The official China Daily reported last week that domestic Chinese zinc prices would probably drop below 9,000 yuan (US$1,084) a tonne this month, due to oversupply.
However, traders polled by Reuters said the lack of alternative suppliers, other than Australia, would keep export demand for Chinese zinc healthy.
"Far East consumers can only take the Chinese material, because if you ship anything from Europe, the premiums would be even higher," the Chinese trading source said.  
Chinese HX brand zinc sold out of Singapore warehouses at a fixed price of $1,100 or $1,120 a tonne, he said. Higher prices meant lower, more flexible premiums (over LME cash prices).
"When the price is $1,020, the premium is $80, $90, $100 and no one buys. Now the premium (in Singapore warehouses) is $50 for HX brand," he said.
"I think with the LME price coming up so much, with the price coming nearer to $1,100, they will easily let it go at a $50 premium," he said.
Other traders said the premium on Chinese zinc to Indonesia is currently $120 a tonne and to Hong Kong $75-$85.  
Taiwan's construction sector had slowed recently and some traders on the island had been trying to take a position and offer the metal at premiums lower than the $90-$100 levels that prevailed until recently. This has pushed the Taiwan premium down to $70 a tonne, an industry executive said.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
China said on Thursday its jailing of leading dissident Wang Dan for 11 years was not a human rights issue but an ordinary legal matter that would not hurt Beijing's sensitive ties with the United States.
A Chinese court on Wednesday took less than four hours to condemn former student leader Wang to 11 years in prison for plotting against the government, in a verdict that prompted quick expressions of deep concern from Washington.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said Wang's trial and conviction were entirely legal matters.
"The trial of Wang Dan is entirely a Chinese legal procedure carried out in accordance with the law," he said. "It has no connection with human rights or other issues."
Shen said the verdict would not cause further damage to cross-Pacific relations that have long been sorely tested by disputes over Beijing's human rights record and other issues.
"The case of Wang Dan has nothing to do with the issue of human rights," Shen told a news briefing in Beijing.
"I don't think the case of Wang Dan will have any effect on Sino-U.S. relations," he said.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court sentenced Wang, 27, to 11 years in prison and stripped him of his political rights for a further two years, in a trial hailed by Chinese state media as a model of fairness.
International human right activists rushed to condemn the verdict, while European governments expressed their dismay at the severity of the sentence imposed on the former leader of the ill-fated 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing.
Wang, who once promoted free debate in the campus of Beijing University, had already served four years in prison for his role in the 1989 protests that were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
Washington officials greeted the verdict with expressions of concern and with strong praise for the jailed dissident, hailing him as one of China's premier voices for human rights.
"We are deeply concerned by the sentence that has been given to Wang Dan," White House spokesman Mike McCurry said on Wednesday.
"We urge the Chinese authorities to show clemency to this courageous man, whose championing of democratic values has gained him deserved international recognition," said U.S. State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns.
Sino-U.S. ties have long been strained by disputes over human rights, trade, copyright theft in China and Taiwan, but both sides say tensions have eased in recent months after a series of high-level meetings.
China on Thursday accused foreign journalists of biased reporting and urged them to learn from Edgar Snow, a U.S. reporter and author sympathetic to the Chinese communist cause.
Reporters from Western nations had misjudged China based on standards that did not apply to countries with different social and political systems, said a commentary in the official China Daily.
"It is common sense that news reporting...should serve the purpose of offering adequate information to the audience to help them form correct judgments on world affairs," the commentary said.
The commentary urged Western media to emulate Snow whose reports from China in the 1930s painted a sympathetic portrait of Mao Zedong and his struggling communist crusade.
The newspaper praised Snow for his accuracy, objectivity and impartiality in his coverage of China as it was swept up in the communist movement.
"In his reportage, Edgar Snow wrote exactly what he witnessed," it said. "What the Western media are doing is the opposite of what Edgar Snow did 60 years ago."
Most Western reporters were barred from China after the communists seized power in 1949 but Snow's personal contacts with Chairman Mao allowed him to roam much of the country unhindered.
His reports praised the Communist Party for its sweeping reforms and later denied rumours of widespread famine in the early 1960s.
Historians now estimate more than 30 million people died as a result of famines after Mao launched the Great Leap Forward, urging farmers to abandon their fields and join the rush to make steel in backyard furnaces.
The commentary blasted the Western media for spreading the theory that China was a threat to the world while ignoring what it said were Japan's rising military ambitions.
Foreign journalists are viewed by many Chinese as spies and most come under police surveillance during their stay in China. Many foreign reporters have been expelled since 1949.
Western journalism focused mostly on negative issues such as crime, disease and political turmoil, it said.
"It has been a general practice of the Western media to look everywhere for the seamy side of society," it said.
Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin last month sternly told the Chinese media to toe the party line and propaganda boss Ding Guangen last week called on the media to report more positive news.
"One may ask why there have been so many disappointing reports by Western journalists," the commentary said.
"One clue lies in the fact that those journalists do not know what is really going on in China," it said.
Wang Dan's name cards describe him as "Free Man" and "World Citizen", but for the next 11 years the democracy activist's world will be a prison.
The disappearance of the 27-year-old into the Chinese gulag on Wednesday signalled a tightening of the Communist Party's grip on all aspects of life -- from religion to crime, from where people may speak to where they may spit.
The sentencing of the former leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy demonstrations left only a handful of the country's dissidents free.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court took less than four hours to convict Wang Dan of plotting to subvert the government.
"What do they really think they have to be afraid of from people like me?" said one prominent dissident after learning that Wang Dan had been jailed.
"Of course, they don't really believe that a kid in his 20s poses a threat," said the dissident, who like others interviewed recently, declined to be identified.
"But by putting him in jail they create a hostage who they can release whenever they feel they need to make a gesture on human rights to the West," said the dissident, who spent the day of Wang's trial with a policeman posted in his living room.
The dissident is one of a rapidly dwindling band still at liberty in China.
Most are either sentenced to lengthy jail terms, serving in labour camps, living in voluntary exile or enforced banishment overseas or just keeping their heads down while the security apparatus seeks pretexts to lock them up and remove what it sees as a potential threat to party rule.
"Don't think for a moment that the aim of sending Wang Dan to jail is just to frighten people like me," said the dissident.
"This is a warning to the United States that says 'We can be tough to our own people and we can be tough to you, too'," he said.
This week, a U.S. State Department official underlined the tensions in the Sino-U.S. relationship by describing China's current leadership as the most difficult that Washington has had to deal with in 25 years.
When U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher comes to China in late November he will find few dissidents to add to his cocktail party guest list.
Historian Bao Zunxin, a veteran of the ill-fated 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations who wrote a letter to the government this year calling for a crackdown on corruption, lives quietly in Beijing.
Outspoken environmental champion and author Dai Qing -- who spent months in prison after the June 4, 1989, military crackdown in Tiananmen Square -- writes, campaigns against the huge Three Gorges dam on the Yangtze river and often gives interviews in Beijing to foreign reporters.
Veteran democracy activist Xu Wenli this year completed a 15-year prison term for subversion but has kept silent since a police ban on meeting foreigners and publishing his writings.
Ren Wanding, like Xu a veteran of the 1979 Democracy Wall movement, was released this year from a seven-year term for his role in the 1989 student movement and has kept a low profile, unable to meet foreigners or to vent his opinions.
The 11-year sentence handed down on Wednesday to Chinese dissident Wang Dan has awakened fears that critics of the Chinese administration in Hong Kong after the 1997 handover could face a similar fate.
Britain hands Hong Kong back to China in 243 days' time after more than 150 years of colonial rule.
The sentence imposed on Wang sparked a flurry of debate in Hong Kong on Thursday over the shape of future laws on subversion in the territory.
Hong Kong has for more than a century been a sanctuary for Chinese dissenters. Some 80 mainland dissidents who fled the communist mainland live in exile in the colony.
The territory also has a large home-grown anti-communist democracy movement, which Beijing officials have often branded as subversive because its adherents backed the 1989 student-led pro-democracy protests in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
Hong Kong's future constitution, the Basic Law promulgated by China, requires laws to be passed after the handover to ban anti-constitutional activities, including subversion.
There has been intense speculation in Hong Kong over what actions the law will ban and whether or not it should be legislated by a provisional body that China plans to appoint upon the handover, or a new legislature expected to be elected in 1998.
So will Hong Kong "dissidents" face the same fate as Wang?
Members of the pro-Beijing political camp said no. "I would certainly dispute any suggestion that could be the case," Eric Li, a legislator and a member of the China-picked Preparatory Committee working out transitional arrangements, told reporters.
"We have our own judicial system and courts, and it will be up to the Hong Kong people to decide what that law is going to be like in the future," Li said.
But Martin Lee, head of Hong Kong's Democratic Party, said he believed Hong Kong dissidents would go to jail.
"If we have a similar law in Hong Kong passed under article 23 of the Basic Law, then the Hong Kong people's freedoms will likewise be curtailed," Lee said. "If we then do something which we do today lawfully, then we are liable to be put into prison, no matter how fair the judge is."
The four leading candidates jockeying to run Hong Kong after 1997 have all refrained from commenting on Wang's sentence.
But one, former chief judge Ti Liang Yang, said he hoped it would be the post-1997 elected legislature which tackles the subversion law and not the provisional body that China plans to install after scrapping the current elected legislature.
"When the time comes for the legislature to legislate under article 23 of the Basic Law they will take into consideration the conditions of Hong Kong, the laws of Hong Kong," Yang said.
An outbreak of bacterial food poisoning that sickened at least 13 children and young adults in the Seattle area has been traced to one company's tainted apple juice, health officials said on Wednesday.
Odwalla Inc, a rapidly growing fresh juice and beverage company based in Half Moon Bay, California, issued a nationwide recall of products containing fresh apple juice, and many retailers pulled all Odwalla beverages from their shelves.
State and county health officials said 10 of the 13 confirmed cases of E. coli food poisoning had been conclusively traced to the unpasteurized Odwalla juice and the remaining three were under investigation.
At least eight more suspected cases have been reported, Dr. Mimi Fields, the state's deputy health secretary, said.
"It's difficult to know where we are on the epidenmic curve, although I don't think we are going to see a large influx of masses of new cases," Fields told Reuters.
The outbreak was the state's worst since some 500 people became ill in the Seattle area and three children died in 1993 after eating undercooked hamburgers.
While adults may suffer diarrhea, stomach cramps or more mild, flulike symptoms after eating food tainted by the bacterium, young children are more susceptible to the disease and may suffer sudden kidney failure that can lead to permanent brain damage or death.
In the current outbreak, six children have been hospitalized, including two who required dialysis. Officials said all the children had been released except for one 2-year-old boy, who was in satisfactory condition.
The strain of E. coli implicated in the outbreak normally lives in the digestion system of cattle and can spread into the food chain through slaughterhouse contamination or fertilizer that includes steer manure.
Health officials said juice can be tainted when fruit falls onto fertilized ground and is not washed properly.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has launched an investigation and will be inspecting Odwalla's plant in Dinuba, California, health officials said.
"Our first concern is for the health and safety of those affected," Odwalla chief executive officer Stephen Williamson said in a statement. He said the company was cooperating fully with health authorities.
Although so far all the cases have been traced to Odwalla juice, authorities recommended that consumers in the Seattle area boil unpasteurized apple juice or cider for 10 seconds before drinking it until the investigation was complete.
Odwalla, which bills itself as the "leading branded fresh juice and beverage company," distributes its beverages in pint plastic bottles to supermarkets and retail outlets in Washington, Oregon, California, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada and British Columbia.
In the fiscal year that ended Aug. 31, the company reported its sales rose 65 percent to $59.2 million from $35.9 million. But net income fell to $633,000, or 12 cents a share, from $997,000, or 22 cents a share.
Microsoft Corp Wednesday launched electronic commerce software and a wide array of partners aimed at enabling consumers and businesses to buy and sell products over the World Wide Web.
At the core of the announcement is Microsoft's Merchant Server, software which will enable businesses to set up electronic storefronts on the Internet, and a plan to build a new channel of service providers to help businesses do this.
Analysts said the strategy was similar to that successfully used by Novell Inc to sell networking software.
"We believe there will be explosive growth (in use of the Web for shopping)," Microsoft Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Gates said at a news conference unveiling the company's electronic commerce strategy.
Microsoft also revealed 40 companies that are in the process of building Merchant Server sites and Henry Vigil, general manager of electronic commerce services at Microsoft, said he expects 300 sites using the software by year-end.
The product competes with an array of prior offerings, including those of Netscape Communications Corp and Internet startup Open Market, as well as Oracle Corp and International Business Machines Corp.
As part of the deal, Microsoft and VeriFone Inc brought together financial institutions and payment processors to provide a secure Internet retailing and payment system.
The financial institutions involved include BankAmerica Corp, Wells Fargo &amp; Co, Citicorp's Citibank Card Acceptance Europe, First USA Paymenteck Inc , NOVUS Services and Royal Bank of Canada.
Much of the technology was made available to partners for testing in August and was developed by eShop, which Microsoft acquired in June, company officials said.
In addition to the infrastructure partners, Vigil said a key priority was "trying to get this new channel built where we see a range of hosting service providers who are really going to be the ones who lease the T1 lines and run the servers on behalf of merchants who are not technologists."
One such company, Boca Raton, Fl.-based Internet Communication Network, Corp., has been in business less than a year and already has some 50 customer Web sites in operation, including one using the Merchant Server, according to David Finkelstein, president of ICA.
James Dee, a specialist New York City photographer, said he had chosen to go through a networking service and support firm using the Merchant Server product to start up a new gallery to sell original contemporary artwork on the Web.
The site was set up in less than a month, he said, and Sarala Dee said the cost of getting the cyberspace gallery under way would amount to some $30,000 to $40,000.
But analysts said the market still may take a long time to develop into the multi-billion dollar market some Internet enthusiasts project.
"As Gates said clearly this is a beginning market," said Kathey Hale, an analyst at Dataquest.
Gates cited Microsoft and industry estimates that the number of consumers on the World Wide Web would more than triple between now and the year 2000, to 48 million.
The number of businesses on the Web is projected to grow four-fold by the year 2000 to two million from 500,000 currently, Gates said.
David Cuursey, who publishes the Coursey.com newsletter on the Internet, said estimates the minimum price for a decent store using the software is $100,000.
"The point of it is that for a lot of people setting up a virtual store it will be also as expensive to create and maintain as a real store," he said. "You're not going to use this technology to take advantage of it for less than $100,000."
Barrick Gold Corp. completed its C$1 billion takeover of the promising smaller exploration company Arequipa Resources Ltd. Tuesday, solidifying its position as the world's third biggest gold producer.
"We are pleased that Arequipa shareholders have chosen so overwhelmingly to accept this offer," Barrick Chairman Peter Munk said in a statement. "We now have the opportunity to realize the potential of Arequipa's excellent assets."
A total of 93 percent of Arequipa shareholders accepted Barrick's C$30 ($21.94) a share bid overnight, and Barrick said it plans to exercise its right to buy the remaining shares.
Barrick said it will have to spend at least C$512 million ($374 million) and issue about 13.4 million shares to complete the takeover, giving the deal a total value of C$1.02 billion ($745 million) based on the closing price for Barrick stock Tuesday.
The acquisition gives Barrick, North America's largest gold mining company, ownership of Arequipa's prize possession, the Pierina gold deposit in Peru.
While exploration on the property is in its early stages, some experts have speculated the deposit has potential reserves of up to 12 million ounces of high-quality gold.
Barrick originally offered Arequipa shareholders C$27 a share July 11 to take over the Vancouver-based company. Analysts initially saw the offer as generous since exploration at Pierina was preliminary.
But Arequipa recently released a fresh batch of drill results from the property, attracting interest from other potential bidders.
On Aug. 16, Barrick raised its offer to C$30 a share to pre-empt a takeover battle.
More drill results were expected soon.
Hours after Barrick officials got the news that the takeover offer had succeeded, two top executives in charge of exploration left to take a closer look at their new treasure.
"They're on their way to Lima right now, to start work on Pierina," said company spokesman Vincent Borg. "What's next is to get a handle on the ore body."
Drilling on the property will continue at an accelerated pace, he said. Barrick also plans to send in additional drill rigs and prepare for engineering work leading up to an eventual feasibility study.
"Things will start kicking in," Borg said.
Analysts were also on their way to Vancouver to scrutinize data collected by Arequipa that Barrick has not yet seen.
Funding the takeover will not be a problem, Borg added. "We've got a very strong balance sheet. We've got no long-term debt."
But the company will have to pay interest on its line of credit and bump up its exploration budget to uncover the metal at Pierina, cutting into earnings, one analyst said.
The Arequipa acquisition was a very "aggressive" move for Barrick and signals the start of a bold, new expansion strategy for the gold giant, mining experts said.
"I don't think they'll stop here. I think they'll continue on the acquisition track," one said.
Barrick would not say if it had its eye on another property. But the company has said in the past it plans to make more than one acquisition.
Rivals the world over will shudder if British Telecommunications Plc and MCI Communications Corp merge, marrying MCI's aggressive marketing and quick reactions with the deep pockets and reach of BT.
Already first with a one-stop telecommunications shop for multinational corporations, a unified BT/MCI would pose an even greater threat in newly competitive U.S. markets, analysts said.  
"This is AT&amp;T Corp's worst nightmare. Bob Allen (AT&amp;T chief executive) will not get a wink of sleep this weekend," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
The two companies on Friday confirmed market rumors that they were considering a merger and would make an announcement by the end of the weekend, but gave no further details.
However, a source close to the deal told Reuters that the deal would be a cash and stock offer from BT for MCI, the junior partner in market capitalisation.  
No price has yet been agreed upon, the source said, but analysts are speculating on $40 a share which would value MCI at $28 billion, and leave BT with a bill for $22.1 billion for the 80 percent of the company it does not already own.
"If it is true, it would have huge implications for the U.S. market," said analyst Ken McGee of the Gartner Group.
"MCI had taken competition about as far as it could go, and needs an infusion of capital for the next stage," he said.
MCI has around 20 percent of the $75 billion U.S. long distance market, compared to 55 percent for AT&amp;T, but both are also entering the $90 billion local calling market.  
There they will meet seven regional Bells, once a legal challenge to the 1996 Telecom Act is resolved. The act was designed to let long-distance and local companies compete in a unified market place.
"It gives MCI an enormous warchest to attack the local markets and defend itself against the regional Bells in the long distance market," said analyst Guy Woodlief of brokers Dean Witter Reynolds.
"It would allow MCI to go after the U.S. local market with a fury that the Baby Bells have never seen," Kagan said.  
Analysts said BT has a very strong balance sheet and free cash flow, which could help fund the coming multi-front marketing war from wireless, long distance and local calling to satellite TV, Internet and business data services.
One conundrum is the MCI/News Corp media joint venture. BT would end up with MCI's about 13 percent non-voting stake in News Corp, which could cause regulatory problems for BT in the British media market.
However, elsewhere it would provide a deep fund of capital for global markets where communication and entertainment are gradually fusing, analysts said.  
"BT has a hell of a strong balance sheet, that's for sure," said Richard Klugman, an analyst at brokers PaineWebber.
Some analysts said the timing was perfect, calling President Bill Clinton's bluff before the November 5 election. "Wonderful timing isnt it?" said Frank Dzubeck, president of consultants Communications Network Architects.  
He said that with the U.S. bashing Europe over freeing air routes and opening markets such as that of Deutsche Telekom AG in Germany, it will now be tested on how open the U.S. market itself is to a foreign company like BT, whose home market is fully open to competition.
Dzubeck said that BT would be able to unify the global strategy and sort out some of the problems in concert, their global multinational business venture with MCI and make sure those problems are not replicated elewhere.
One competitor to MCI, Sprint Corp got an unexpected boost on Friday from the news of the merger talks.
Sprint's stock rose 4-1/2 to 43-3/4, with analysts saying an expected $40 per share value for MCI, would allow investors to focus on the long-term value of the network Sprint is building too. -- New York Newsroom  212 859 1610
General Motors Corp.'s board of directors will likely delay an increase in the company's quarterly common stock dividend if it fails to reach a contract deal with the United Auto Workers union before Monday, analysts said Friday.
GM's board is scheduled to meet on Monday and will consider the automaker's fourth quarter dividend, but Dean Witter analyst Ron Glantz said an increase will send the wrong message to the union.  
"Unless a settlement is reached by Sunday, the board is not going to throw gasoline onto the fire," said Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. auto analyst Ron Glantz.
A dividend hike now could jeopardize the long-running UAW talks because the automaker is trying to win concessions aimed at cutting costs and allowing it sell off unprofitable parts plants. The two sides are crafting a complicated agreement that is expected to maintain job guarantees set by Ford Motor Co and Chrysler Corp, but may exclude a number of GM facilities.  
Nevertheless, analysts say GM is due for an increase because of the company's improving cash position and stronger earnings.
The quarterly payout rate on GM's $1-2/3 par-value stock has been unchanged since February, when it was raised to $0.40 a share from $0.30.
Glantz's anticipation of an increase in the dividend and a possible share buyback program was predicated upon having an agreement in hand.
Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi agreed but he noted that GM needs to increase its payout to improve its dividend yield. GM's yield is now 2.98 percent, compared with 4.93 percent for Ford Motor Co and 4.16 percent for Chrysler Corp.
"Shareholders might be better served by letting that sleeping dog lie," Phillippi said of a possible dividend increase.
He added that he expects shareholders to remain patient with GM, because the automaker has more to gain by negotiating a UAW contract that allows it reduce its cost disadvantage compared with Ford and Chrysler.
Once a contract is signed, Phillippi said he is looking for GM to raise its dividend by 50 percent, or $0.20 a share, in two increments.
GM shares were up 1/8 at 54.
The Montreal Canadiens, the most storied franchise in the National Hockey League, were engulfed in sale rumours Friday, which drew a fierce denial from its owner, Molson Cos. Ltd.
Canadian newspapers reported that a consortium led by former Canadiens general manager and Hall of Famer Serge Savard was assembling a bid for the team, winner of a record 24 Stanley Cup championships since 1916.
Citing unidentified sources, Toronto's Globe and Mail newspaper reported that talks with Molson had been under way for several days.
"Don't take this story lightly. There's a very good chance that it could happen," wrote sports columnist Marty York, quoting a source at Molson.
Rejean Tremblay, a columnist for the Montreal newspaper La Presse, reported similar rumours.
Molson is the sole owner of the Canadiens and their new arena, the $150 million Molson Centre. It also owns 40 percent of Canada's biggest brewer, Molson Breweries.
"The company has not approached anyone on this subject and no one has approached us. Neither the hockey club nor the Molson Centre are for sale," Molson Chief Executive Norman Seagram said in a statement.
Analysts speculated that the Canadiens and the arena could fetch up to $300 million.
Savard, who played for Montreal from 1967-1981 and was fired last season after 13 years as the team's general manager, was unavailable for comment on Friday.
Selling the Canadiens would be a dramatic about-face for Molson. The company said four months ago the club was a key part of its heritage.
"At the Molson companies, we have two legacy assets, Molson Breweries and the Montreal Canadiens," Seagram told shareholders at the annual meeting in June.
Sports plays a huge role in selling beer in Canada and the Molson name is intertwined with Canadiens hockey. Aside from putting its name on a new arena, Molson Breweries is a major sponsor of NHL television broadcasts in Canada.
The Molson family sold the club in 1971 to Peter Bronfman, whose cousins control the Seagram beverage empire. Molson Cos. reacquired the team in 1978.
Analysts said there had been no hint from Molson that it was interested in selling the club or arena.
China, stronghold of table tennis and kung fu, is trying its hand at professional basketball with the start on Saturday of a new league using American coaches and players.
The China New Basketball Alliance was set up earlier this year by the country's State Sports Commission along with Spectrum, a Hong Kong-based sports promotion company. 
The new league aims to offer an alternative to the existing China Basketball Association, which is made up entirely of Chinese players.
"One league is the local, provincial teams and one is definitely a professional league with foreign players and different rules," said Spectrum chief operating officer Andy Jay.
The alliance will use National Basketball Association (NBA) rules and generate all revenue through ticket sales and television advertising.
Each of the eight teams has hired four players and a head coach from the United States, but only two American players from each team will be allowed on the court at any one time.
The Americans, recruited from colleges or the ranks of former NBA players, have been in China for weeks, training and learning to work with their new team mates.
"The only thing is the language barrier -- once I learn some Chinese I think we will have a lot more fun," Beijing Lions player Tyrone Doleman said.
The U.S. coaches use translators on the courts to help render their brusque and lingo-filled commands into Chinese.
"You got some of them that got no clue as to what's going on as far as what I'm telling them," said Beijing Lions coach Joe Weakley.
China's national team were eighth in the Atlanta Olypmics, their best-ever showing.
The 18-week season begins in Beijing on Saturday with a match between the Beijing Lions and Shanghai Nanyang.
Caterpillar Inc. said Tuesday it is prepared to unilaterally impose employment terms, effective Oct. 1, on employees represented by the United Auto Workers after declaring an impasse in talks with the union.
The impasse revolves around the firings of some union workers before and during the 17-month strike against the Peoria, Ill.-based heavy equipment maker that ended in December without a new contract.
Caterpillar is willing to have firings after the strike sent to arbitration, but not those before and during the walkout.
The terms Caterpillar said it will impose at its eight UAW-represented plants in the United States include a pledge not to close any faciltities except the company's York, Pa., plant through September 2001, and job guarantees through that time period. Caterpillar has 31 manufacturing plants in the United States.
"We are taking this step to provide our employees with an added sense of security about their future, while giving Caterpillar the labor costs and the flexibility we need to keep jobs in the U.S. and keep our U.S.-made products competitive around the world," Caterpillar Vice President Wayne Zimmerman said in a statement.
Other terms include a 19 percent increase in Caterpillar's supplement of pensions for retirees until they become eligible for Social Security, an average increase of 7-1/2 percent in pensions and a doubling of potential incentive pay, Caterpillar said.
Caterpillar's UAW workers have been working without a contract since 1991. A 17-month strike against the equipment maker ended in December without a resolution of contract issues.
The UAW said Tuesday it does not agree that it has reached a lawful impasse with the company that makes it necessary for the terms to be put into effect.
"This tactic is yet another attempt to subvert the collective bargaining process," UAW Vice President Richard Shoemaker said in a statement.
The union said it will pursue the appropriate legal remedies if the company takes action to implement employment conditions without the existance of an impasse.
One analyst said the impasse declaration by Caterpillar appears to be genuine, not just a bargaining ploy.
"I don't think this is really a bargaining move," said Barry Bannister, analyst at S.G. Warburg. "It's just an obvious impasse."
He also said he did not expect the move to affect the stock, noting that strikers returned to Caterpillar several months ago without an effect on the company's profit margins.
The largest Czech commercial bank, Komercni Banka a.s. , on Friday posted roughly 10 percent lower nine-month results but attributed the drop to accounting changes and KB's shares rose on the news.
The bank's net profit, calculated under international accounting standards, declined to 4.88 billion crowns from 5.44 billion, but Komercni shares moved higher on the Prague Stock Exchange as analysts praised the results.
The bank's finance division director Kamil Ziegler told a news conference that since third quarter 1995, Komercni had revised its methodolgy to exclude unpaid late fees and commissions, including penalty payments.
"Our profit, according to international accounting standards, is by roughly 10 percent lower than in the same period of the last year. But, there is very important methodical influence," Ziegler told reporters.
"Currently there are only really paid late fees in our books, that means real cash flow."
He added that the sum of unpaid late fees substracted from the accounting was 1.2 billion crowns. Komercni posted a 5.11 billion net profit for the whole of 1995.
The bank's total assets rose to 432.04 billion crowns at the end of the third quarter from 336.21 billion, year-on-year.
The net interest margin declined to 4.07 percent from 5.40 percent, but up from 3.93 percent at the end of the first half.
Under Czech accounting standards, which Ziegler said do not include the tital of 700 million crowns of unrealised gains from securities, Komercni's gross for the period was 3.87 billion, down from 6.83 billion year on year.
He told rpeorters that he considered the results to be "very good", but warned that simple annualisation of the nine month figures would not lead to a full-year profit forecast.
He said fourth quarter results could be affected by unclear development on the stock market and other factors.
Sandy Winthrop Chen, vice president of equity research at the Prague office of CS First Boston, welcomed the figures,
"The results are quite in line with our expectations, I think the performance is very strong, and it puts Komercni Banka in a very good position to meet or exceed out 1996 forecast."
He added that the forecast was a 5.95 billion crown net profit, according to international standards.
Komercni share price jumped 125 crowns on the Prague Stock Exchange soon after the news to 2,125, and closed at 2,126 after a week of heavy losses in which some analysts anticipated poor results.
Dealer Karel Ruzicka of ING Barings said the results were in line with his expectations and partly attributed Komercni's share price rise to demand from foreign investors.
"Some of the foreign investors...think they are not so bad therefore we can see some demand in the stock," he said.
Added Chen: "We definitely remain buyers of the stock, and the recent weakeness in the shareprice we interpret as a major buyer opportunity."
Komercni's largest shareholder is still the Czech government which has a 48.74 percent stake, followed by the Bank of New York which has accumlated a 9.65 percent stake.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Family-controlled British food and retailing group Associated British Foods should report a sharp rise in full year profits on Monday, as its retail and textile business benefit from a pickup in high street spending.
"The two parts of the business really driving the increase are the retail and clothing side which is benefitting from the feel-good factor," said Michael Bourke, analyst at Panmure Gordon. Analysts forecasts are centred on pretax profits of 415 million stg up from 375 million last time and a dividend increase to 9.5p from 8.8p.  
ABF, a food processor and manufacturer in Britain, Australia and the United States, as well as a food and textile retailer in Britain and Ireland, is also widely expected to yield yet more cash from British Sugar.
"The feature of the figures as ever is the strong cashflow coming out of British sugar. Net cash should rise by about 130 million pounds which always begs the question will they spend it?" said UBS analyst Charlie Mills.
That would bring net cash to 735 million stg at year end.  
On the retail side PriMark, women's clothing chain in Ireland and Britain, as well as the Irish retailing businesses -- Stewarts supermarkets in Northern Ireland and Crazy Prices and Quinnsworth -- are expected to perform much better.
However the mainstream side of the business, British Sugar which contributes about 50 percent of profits, is likely to be slightly weaker after a hot summer in 1995 affected the sugar beet crop and margins came under pressure from the strength of sterling which made European imports look cheaper.  
Aside from British sugar, analysts expect the grocery business, like milling and baking, Rivita and Burton biscuits to show improvements.
On average analysts forecast trading profit from groceries, excluding British Sugar, to rise by 14 million stg to 82 million in the belief that the company has managed to claw back some of the margin on non-packaged food.
Including British Sugar operating profits are predicted to increase to about 265 million from 252 million previously.
ABF shares have risen consistently from 280p in January to 418-1/2p at Friday's close.
Consensus estimates, taken from a Reuter poll of 17 brokers, for 1996 is 30.1, rising to 31.6 in 1997.
The company has a return on equity of 11.5 percent, putting it in 28th slot in the FTSE-All share food manufaturing sector of 57 companies.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Anglo-Dutch food-to-detergent group Unilever Plc, reporting third quarter results next Friday, is likely to have suffered from restructuring costs for its North American industrial cleaning business Diversey and from weak ice cream sales in a drab European summer, analysts said.
Diversey, acquired in January from Molson for 360 million stg, was merged with Lever Industrial in October to form a combined business with annual turnover of 1.15 billion stg and a workforce of 13,000 in 60 different countries.  
Analysts predict third quarter pretax profits in a range of 760 to 820 million, against 786 million stg last time.
The wide range reflects uncertainty about the size of redundancy payments and closures needed to reshape Diversey.
Charges for Diversey could range from 15-30 million stg, with a further 20 million needed for restructuring other Unilever businesses.
But the half-year dividend, paid in the third quarter, is forecast to rise sharply as a result of changes to dividend policy announced at the full year.  
Analysts expect a 10.3p dividend payout under a new policy whereby 35 percent of the previous year's total dividend would be paid in the stronger of either Dutch guilder or sterling so far this year. A 10.3p payout would represent a 46 percent increase on the previous half-year's 7.05p.
For the nine month period analysts are forecasting pretax profits of about 1.9 billion pounds.
"European ice cream sales are not going to have the special benefit they had in 1995 or 1994," said John Campbell, analyst at Paribas.  
"European economies are generally weak, and German consumption if anyhing lower because of the tough economic climate there," he added.
Michael Bourke at Panmure Gordon saw three factors behind the downturn.
"The exceptional charge will be a bit higher, perhaps about 40 million compared with 20 million the year before, and ice cream sales in the third quarter will have been influenced a lot by the summer weather."
"Last but not least is the currency factor, with the majority of Unilever profits in US dollars and the recent weakness in the dollar clearly having an impact."
The consensus forecast EPS for 1996, taken from 24 brokers polled by Reuters, is 84.40p, rising to 92.30p in 1997. Six brokers downgraded their 1996 EPS forecast in October.
Unilever's return on equity is currently running at 27.3 percent, against 66.57 percent for Unigate, the highest in the FTSE all-share food manufacturing sector.
The company's shares reached a high of 1412 pence for the year in mid-September before closing down at 1283 on Friday.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
New evidence about British Biotech Plc's anti-cancer treatment Marimastat next week will provide important clues about its potential as a blockbuster product, analysts said on Friday.
British Biotech is using a meeting of the European Society of Medical Oncologists (ESMO) in Vienna to make five presentations, including Marimastat's effects in ovarian, colo-rectal, pancreatic and gastric cancer.
It will issue a general update on Monday morning.  
The Oxford-based group has become the bellwether for the increasingly crowded biotech field in the U.K, with sentiment towards Marimastat having a disproportionate impact on the sector.
Millions of pounds of investors' money has been placed on the bet that Marimastat will turn out to be Europe's first big-selling biotech product, with forecasts for annual sales ranging from a few hundred million dollars to up to $4 billion.  
Monday's data comes from patients who continued to use the drug beyond the period necessary for completion of Phase II clinical trials. The company said this meant there would be a further six months of extra information.
Yamaichi International analyst Erling Refsum said he hoped to see the first hard evidence that patients were living longer as a result of taking Marimastat. Refsum said the surrogate marker data provided so far was like "the indicator board at the train station rather than the train actually coming."  
In a note on the trials Lehman Brothers analyst Ian Smith, who will attend the ESCO meeting, said it might be possible to glean indications of the effect of Marimastat on patient survival in ovarian and pancreatic cancer.
There will also be interest in Marimastat's impact on gastric cancer, where little information has so far been available. And analysts are keen to see how serious the side effects caused by the drug are. The main problem reported so far is joint pain.  
Yamaichi's Refsum said the results are "not definitive as  to whether it works or not, but it is another indication as to whether it will sell or won't sell, and that is the bottom line." Lehman's Smith added that the results "won't prove Marimastat's efficacy but will raise the probabilities."
British Biotech will announce late-stage data on another key product, pancreatitis drug Lexipafant, on November 27.
Smith said that favourable news on both drugs could lift the group's share price to 300 pence by the end of the month from 230 at Friday's close. But Refsum is more sceptical about the potential impact of Marimastat and said 150 pence is "reasonable value" for the shares.
A British Biotech spokeswoman said Phase III Marimastat trials are likely to take two years to complete, meaning that the first results would not be available until 1998 at the earliest. But she said British Biotech would probably make academic presentations at conferences like ESMO from time to time to keep the market up to date.
Late stage trials on pancreatic cancer started in June, and trials in small-cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, gastric cancer and a form of brain cancer are being set up, she added.
Britain's Northern Electric is set to rush out a glowing set of figures aimed at persuading the market that the 630 pence per share hostile bid by CE Electric is too low, analysts said on Friday.
The regional electricity company (Rec) said it would bring its half-year results forward from a scheduled date of December 5 when it rejected U.S.-based CE Electric's bid on Monday. Industry sources expect the results to come some time next week.
Northern could boost its case with an improved gearing forecast after a 560 million pound ($918.6 million) package for shareholders which helped it fend off last year's bid from Trafalgar House.
"The critical answer is interim results, especially the balance sheet, which could be stronger than expected," said David Campbell of Greig Middleton.
Northern has said that CE Electric, which is 70 percent owned by CalEnergy of the U.S., had indicated a price of 700 pence per share, but that claim was denied by the Americans, who said their $1.225 billion bid was a full and fair price.
Since the bid on Monday, there have been no further talks between the companies, industry sources said, and CE Electric has snapped up around 13 percent of Northern's shares.
The share price has struggled to rise above the offer level, which was at a premium of 21.2 percent to the last closing prices before the bid, and On Friday was trading at 631.5 pence, down two pence.
"I think Northern should be able to force a higher price but the critical factor is portfolio investors, who may prefer an instant 630 pence rather than a possible higher number," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
Northern's costly defence against Trafalgar House, the only successful rebuttal by any of the eight Recs which have faced bids since privatisation in 1990, has left it with little more to offer, analysts said, which could keep a lid on the shares.
There is also scepticism a rival bid will emerge, as the remaining four independent and cash-rich Recs could be more attractive without the operational rationale of CE Electric, which wants to add supply expertise to its generating business.
Electricity sector shares were led higher last Friday by East Midlands Electricity, which was seen as the most attractive bid candidate before CE Electric launched its offer for Northern.
Northern is likely to report pretax profits slightly down at around 50 million pounds from 58.7 million pounds a year ago and raise the dividend by seven percent to near 13 pence.
Gearing could come in around 125 percent and show signs of falling to 100 percent or less, analysts said, from peaks nearer 170 percent under the impact of the costly defence package.
The market is also waiting for CE Electric, in which U.S. construction, mining and telecoms company Peter Kiewit Sons has a 30 percent stake, to post its offer document. This move will set the 60-day clock ticking for the takeover timetable.
At the same time, electricity industry watchdog Offer has started a review of the bid, requesting comments by November 7.
Analysts said Offer's move might have contributed to dampening Northern's share price by triggering concerns the bid might be referred to British competition authorities.
There appears to be little precedent for such a referral, however, as three Recs have already fallen to U.S. companies with approval from the government.
But last week's surprise decision to block rival bids for water utility South West Water from its colleagues Severn Trent and Wessex has unsettled the market, analysts said.
The Conservative government, well behind the opposition Labour party in opinion polls with no more than six months to go before a general election, might see Northern's takeover as a political hot potato.
Labour, traditionally against privatisation and fiercely critical of takeovers in the sector, might take an additional interest in Northern as it supplies the party leader Tony Blair's constituency in north east England.
Toronto stocks ended weaker amid profit taking on Friday, but not before Canada's biggest stock market had struggled to a new intraday high.
The TSE 300 Composite Index fell 7.51 points to close at 5591.31 in brisk turnover of 90.4 million shares valued at C$1.47 billion ($1.1 billion).
Declining stocks outpaced advances 473 to 435 with 289 issues unchanged.
"The story today was profit-taking," said Ira Katzin, an investment adviser with RBC Dominion Securities. The TSE posted its 50th record close on Thursday and also broke through the key 5600 barrier.
The TSE managed to hit an intraday high of 5606 before turning lower on the day.
Toronto's nine weak sectors included sharp losses in consumer products, base metals, communications and pipelines.
The five strong groups were led by financial services. Bank stocks rallied along with firmer North American bond markets and on expectations for another Bank of Canada rate cut next weak.
Analysts said the strong Canadian dollar has given the central bank enough leeway to lower rates.
The Canadian currency closed stronger at C$1.3335 (US$0.7499) on Friday, the strongest the unit has been since October, 1995.
--- HOT STOCKS ---
* Bre-X Minerals Ltd. led active stocks, sinking 1.25 to 21.15 on 4.25 million shares. The stock fell on profit taking and continued investor jitters about Bre-X's alliance with a firm controlled by Indonesian president Suharto's son.
* Among bank stocks, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce rose 0.90 to end at 56.60 after earlier hitting a 52-week high of 56.75.
Bank of Montreal jumped 1.05 to close at 41.60 after hitting a 52-week peak of 41.65.
* Canadian Airlines fell 0.14 to 1.61 after the struggling airline unveiled a survival plan amid heavy financial losses. Rival Air Canada gained 0.25 to 5.35 on 1.6 million shares.
* Luxury hotel operator Four Seasons Hotels Inc jumped 1.75 to 26.50 after announcing plans to sell its stake in its Toronto hotel for C$13 million ($9.7 million). Four Seasons said it will continue to manage the hotel.
The Montreal Canadiens, the most storied franchise in the National Hockey League, were engulfed in sale rumors on Friday, which drew a fierce denial from its owner, Molson Cos. Ltd..
Canadian newspapers reported that a consortium led by former Canadiens all-star defenseman Serge Savard was assembling a bid for the Canadiens, who have won 24 Stanley Cup championships since 1916.
Citing unidentified sources, Toronto's Globe and Mail newspaper reported that Savard headed the group and that talks with Molson had been under way for several days.
"Don't take this story lightly. There's a very good chance that it could happen," wrote sports columnist Marty York, quoting a source at Molson.
Rejean Tremblay, a columnist for the Montreal newspaper La Presse, reported similar rumors.
Molson is the sole owner of the Canadiens and the new C$200 million ($150 million) Molson Centre arena in which the club plays. It also owns 40 percent of Canada's biggest brewer Molson Breweries.
"The company has not approached anyone on this subject and no one has approached us. Neither the hockey club nor the Molson Centre are for sale," Molson Chief Executive Norman Seagram said in a statement.
Analysts speculated that the Canadiens and the arena could fetch up to C$400 million ($300 million).
Savard, a Hall of Famer who played with Montreal from 1967-1981, was fired by the Canadiens last year after 13 years as general manager.
Now a wealthy real estate executive in Montreal, Savard was unavailable for comment on Friday.
"I would think that if anything is going on there, the initiative is being taken by the potential buyer rather than the seller," Bill Chisholm, an analyst with Deacon Capital Corp. said in a telephone interview.
Selling the Canadiens would be a dramatic about-face for Molson. The company said four months ago the club was a key part of its heritage.
"At the Molson companies, we have two legacy assets, Molson Breweries and the Montreal Canadiens," Seagram told shareholders at the annual meeting in June.
Sports plays a huge role in selling beer in Canada and the Molson name is intertwined with Canadiens hockey. Aside from putting its name on a new arena, Molson Breweries is a major sponsor of NHL television broadcasts in Canada.
The Molson family sold the club in 1971 to Peter Bronfman, whose cousins control the Seagram beverage empire. Molson Cos. reacquired the team in 1978.
Analysts said here had been no hint from Molson that it was interested in selling the club or arena.
Russia's new grain traders, looking for opportunities to make money and feed their vast country, said they were struggling to flourish in an arena now free of the state but lacking basic market structures too.
Preliminary data from the State Statistics Committee on Friday showed this year's gross grain harvest was 74.6 million tonnes, just eight percent up on 1995's disastrous 30-year low.
That could still leave supplies tight and, with no local equivalent of the Chicago Board of Trade or Canadian Wheat Board, traders will again be left to sift through bewildering market rumours and to pound the steppes in search of grain.
It is a Wild East bazaar, where producers prefer cash on delivery and where Soviet collective farming has left a deep suspicion of anything that looks like financial sophistication. But it is also, traders say, a place with golden opportunities.
"The arbitrage opportunities are excellent," said independent agriculture analyst Andrei Sizov of SovEcon Ltd consultancy, referring to trade in agricultural commodities from Russia and the former Soviet republics Ukraine and Kazakhstan.
He said Western commodities houses were actively arbitraging everything from sunflower oil in Russia's grain-belt North Caucasus to Ukrainian wheat and Uzbek cotton.
But other senior industry sources were at odds over how to trade in the post-Soviet market, where the state is no longer a major presence but where the new rules of the game are opaque.
Moscow shocked world markets in the 1970s by purchasing tens of millions of tonnes of foreign grain.
But the hard-up Russian government is keeping out of the market and last year relied on private traders to make up for Russia's worst grain harvest in three decades.
Arkady Zlochevsky, president of OGO, one of Russia's largest private commodities houses, said the domestic grain market was tough this year because few domestic traders had ready cash.
"The arbitrage situation is not as good this year because deliveries, especially from Ukraine, are unreliable, and because nobody has any money," he said.
Yet other sources said buyers were rushing to fill contracts left over from the last crop marketing year, when poor harvests across the ex-Soviet Union made supplies short.
"It used to be a seller's market only -- now buyers are on an equal footing," said a trader at a Western commodities house.
Russian farmers are already demanding prices above world levels and are selling standard, third-class bread-making wheat for 0.97 to 1.00 million roubles per tonne (about $177-$183 at current exchange rates). Delivery from central regions to Moscow or other big cities adds another 200,000 roubles per tonne.
Alexander Yukish, president of Russia's Grain Union industry group, said Ukrainian supplies were cheaper at 850,000 roubles a tonne, but said a 20 percent Russian value added tax and freight costs could quickly make up the difference.
Kazakh wheat before delivery to Russia across thousands of kilometres (miles) cost about one million roubles a tonne.
No one knows what percentage of Russian grain is traded domestically, in spite of the fact that the new private sector has in large part helped the government avoid major imports by selling domestic supplies to far-flung regions in Siberia.
The Russian Exchange, formerly known as the Russian Commodities and Raw Materials Exchange, has a puny turnover in grain contracts and registered no deals last month.
Farmers, burned by the late-paying state in the past, think only of roubles in hand, and not of hedging output with futures.
"For Western commodities houses, this is still a risky market," said Vasily Chinkaryov, deputy director at Eximkhleb, adding one could never be sure of receiving contracted supplies.
There are hundreds of so-called grain trading outfits across Russia, buying small lots here and there and wreaking havoc on the market by sometimes failing to pay producers.
Market sophistication is low, and even some top Russian traders do not see what "arbitrage" -- which in Russian denotes an arbitration court, not playing with price differences on commodities in different markets -- has to do with making money.
"What does our judicial process have to do with trading grain?" asked one senior Russian trader in all seriousness.
Still, Russian grain is finding channels through which to move, often abroad.
Russia registered a total of 1.2 million tonnes of wheat and wheat-rye exports since the beginning of the year, with September exports nearly doubling to 62,500 tonnes, according to State Customs Committee figures quoted by Interfax news agency.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520 ($1 = 5,453 roubles)
The largest Czech commercial bank, Komercni Banka a.s., said on Friday that profits in the first nine months of this year fell some 10 percent due to accounting changes. The shares rose on the news.
The bank's net profit, calculated under international accounting standards, declined to 4.88 billion crowns from 5.44 billion, but Komercni shares moved higher on the Prague Stock Exchange as analysts praised the results.
The bank's finance division director Kamil Ziegler told a news conference that since third quarter 1995, Komercni had revised its accounting method to exclude unpaid late fees and commissions.
"Our profit, according to international accounting standards, is roughly 10 percent lower than in the same period of the last year. But there are very important methodological influences," Ziegler told reporters.
Only those fees that have actually been paid are included in the figures now whereas outstanding receivables were included previously, he said.
He added that the amount of late fees that would have been included under the previous accounting method was 1.2 billion crowns. Komercni posted a 5.11 billion net profit for the whole of 1995.
The bank's total assets rose to 432.04 billion crowns at the end of the third quarter from 336.21 billion, year-on-year.
The net interest margin declined to 4.07 percent from 5.40 percent, but up from 3.93 percent at the end of the first half.
Under Czech accounting standards, which Ziegler said do not include the tital of 700 million crowns of unrealised gains from securities, Komercni's gross profit for the period was 3.87 billion, down from 6.83 billion year on year.
He told rpeorters that he considered the results to be "very good", but warned that simple annualisation of the nine month figures would not lead to a full-year profit forecast.
He said fourth quarter results could be affected by unclear development on the stock market and other factors.
Sandy Winthrop Chen, vice president of equity research at the Prague office of CS First Boston, welcomed the figures,
"The results are quite in line with our expectations, I think the performance is very strong, and it puts Komercni Banka in a very good position to meet or exceed out 1996 forecast."
He added that the forecast was a 5.95 billion crown net profit, according to international standards.
Komercni share price jumped 125 crowns on the Prague Stock Exchange soon after the news to 2,125, and closed at 2,126 after a week of heavy losses in which some analysts anticipated poor results.
Dealer Karel Ruzicka of ING Barings said the results were in line with his expectations and partly attributed Komercni's share price rise to demand from foreign investors.
"Some of the foreign investors...think they are not so bad therefore we can see some demand in the stock," he said.
Added Chen: "We definitely remain buyers of the stock, and the recent weakeness in the shareprice we interpret as a major buyer opportunity."
Komercni's largest shareholder is still the Czech government which has a 48.74 percent stake, followed by the Bank of New York which has accumlated a 9.65 percent stake.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) on Friday cut its forecast for 1996 real gross domestic product (GDP) growth as lower export demand, especially from neighbouring Germany, fuels the trade deficit and eases Czech expansion.
The CSU cut its full-year 1996 GDP projection to 4.8 percent growth -- the same as the real result for 1995 -- from its 5.1 percent year-on-year prognosis made at the beginning of August.
Czech GDP grew a real 4.3 percent in the first half of this year, according to the latest results.
In its report on Friday, the CSU said it expected full year 1997 real GDP growth at between 5.1 to 5.6 percent.
The CSU revised its forecast for the full-year 1996 current account deficit to 6.9 percent of GDP from 5.7 percent as a ballooning merchandise trade deficit continues to bite.
It said the current account deficit would grow to between 6.8 to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1997.
The bureau said the merchandise trade deficit would grow to 163.3 billion crowns by end-1996 from the roughly 111 billion crown deficit posted for the first three quarters this year and compared with roughly 96 billion crowns for the whole of 1995.
But the bureau said export growth should accelerate in 1997 to between 10.0 to 11.4 percent from 6.2 percent this year, while import growth would be between 14 to 16.2 percent next year from 15.4 percent in 1996.
It forecast the 1997 merchandise trade deficit at 200 to 210 billion crowns.
"It is realistic to forecast, in view of the massive investment into the (Czech) economy in the past several years and expected growth of (EU) economies... that the development of the (current account deficit) at the turn of 1997-98 would switch toward (the deficit's) reduction," the CSU said.
The bureau blamed mainly a stagnation in the first three quarters in the German economy -- which accounts for just over a third of Czech export demand -- and in the whole EU for the revised trade figures and the lower GDP forecast.
"I think it's realistic to suggest that the (Czech trade situation) won't be much different next year," said Charles Robertson an independent East Europe analyst.
"But the big question will be whether there will be some improvement toward the end of next year. If this carries on into 1998 and 1999 there are going to be big worries."
He expected that, despite the poor trade results, the Czech crown should be able to stay within the central bank's band of plus/minus 7.5 percent from the mid-point of the mark/dollar basket to which it is fixed each day.
After the CSU announcement, the crown remained steady, trading in a tight range around the central bank's Friday fixing at 26.960 to the dollar and 17.739 to the mark, or 2.75 percent above parity with the basket.
The CSU slightly eased its forecast for full-year 1996 inflation to 8.9 percent from 9.0 percent in August, and said consumer prices would slow to between 7.5 percent to 8.0 percent for the whole of next year.
It said unemployment would remain at one of the lowest levels in Europe, but said it would edge up slightly to between 3.3 to 3.5 percent by the end of 1997 from 3.3 percent at the end of this year.
The slowdown of inflation -- to an average of 7.5 to 8.0 percent by the end of 1997 from 8.9 percent at the end of 1996 -- would be helped by a slowing in real wage growth to between 8.1 to 8.5 percent next year from 9.1 percent in 1996, the CSU said.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Israel's flag carrier El Al is to start using a Boeing 747 on its once weekly Tel Aviv to Hong Kong service as part of a drive to increase tourism and trade with the Middle East, Abraham Roter, the carrier's the airline's general manager for China, Hong Kong and east Asia said.
From the end of this month the 747 will replace a smaller Boeing 767 which flies via Tashkent. The 747 will be a direct flight from Israel to Hong Kong which will stop in Bombay to refuel on the return leg, Roter said.
El Al said it was the only airline offering a direct link to the Middle East, as opposed to carriers such as Emirates which fly to the Gulf, and which offers good connections around the Mediterranean region. The larger aircraft will increase cargo capacity from 10 upto 24 tonnes and increase passenger comfort, Roter told Reuters in an interview from his Hong Kong office.
El Al is holding a series of seminars with travel agents to try and entice more tourists from Hong Kong. Current passenger levels to Tel Aviv are between five and six thousand a year.
"We believe that the market has big potential because Hong Kong people are big travellers and we are offering them a wonderful destination which is just 10 hours away," Roter said.
Israel does not have an Air Services Agreement with Hong Kong and Roter said if demand increases the carrier could utilise its second weekly flight allowed under the current informal arrangement. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
The family of jailed Chinese dissident Wang Dan on Friday received official confirmation of his 11-year prison sentence, suggesting the way was now clear for the former student leader to appeal his conviction.
A Beijing court on Wednesday took less than four hours to condemn Wang for plotting against the government after a trial that sparked expressions of concern from around the world.
Wang's family received official notification of the verdict on Friday afternoon, implying the 27-year-old activist was now free to appeal within 10 days, said his mother Wang Lingyun.
"The verdict should be first given to him, with another (copy) given to the family," she said in a telephone interview.
"This is an issue for Wang Dan, he has to write an appeal document...for the higher court," she said. "After the court has received it they may inform us."
Wang, a dissident known for his role as a leader of the ill-fated 1989 pro-democracy protests in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, had pleaded not guilty to subversion charges carrying a maximum death sentence and a minimum 10 years' imprisonment.
During a brief meeting with his family after the trial he vowed to appeal, a decision widely considered to be a symbolic gesture as verdicts imposed on Chinese dissidents in past political trials have almost never been overturned.
The 11-year sentence imposed on Wang was the latest in a series of crushing blows on China's embattled band of dissidents, most of whom were already in exile or serving long terms in adminstrative detention or jail.
It drew immediate fire from international human rights activists, who condemned the trial as a parody of justice masking a pre-arranged result.
Chinese state media called the trial a model of fairness. Officials said it was an ordinary legal matter and an internal affair.
The United States and some European and Asian nations expressed their concern, while Czech President Vaclav Havel -- himself a former dissident against a communist government -- said the verdict was unacceptable and deeply disturbing.
Wang, who once promoted free debate on the campus of Beijing University, had already served four years in prison after the 1989 protests were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
The former history student returned to activism after his parole in 1993, defying police surveillance to join a daring appeal to Beijing's communist leadership for the release of those still jailed for their part in the 1989 demonstrations.
He was detained once more in May 1995 and disappeared into legal limbo for almost a year and a half until being formally arrested.
Wang Lingyun, a 61-year old museum researcher who attended the trial as one of Wang's two defence lawyers, said it was unclear when she would be able to meet her son again.
"If he continues to ask me to be his defence lawyer, it's possible we will be able to have a lawyer's meeting, like last time," she said. "It's his decision."
The family had had little time to discuss the details of Wang's appeal during their 30-minute meeting at a Beijing detention centre on Wednesday, she said.
"Last time we didn't speak much, because the time was so short," she said. "We hadn't seen each other for such a long time, we just talked about family things."
Chinese state media on Friday lashed out at a U.S.-funded radio news station, accusing the United States and other Western nations of stepping up "Cold War propaganda" against Beijing.
U.S. Radio Free Asia, which broadcasts news to China in Chinese, had been launched by Washington to create chaos and sow dissent in Asian nations, the official China Youth Daily said.
"With the broadcasts of Radio 'Free Asia', the United States is further stretching its gossiping tongue into the Asian region," the newspaper said in an article published on the same day a senior U.S. official began a visit in Beijing.
U.S. Undersecretary of State Lynn Davis had arrived in China for talks on arms proliferation and to lay the groundwork for a crucial visit later this month by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, a U.S. Embassy spokesman said.
Christopher's visit is intended to be the latest in a series of moves by Washington and Beijing to mend ties long strained by disputes over human rights, trade, copyright piracy and Taiwan.
Officials on both sides say relations have warmed in recent months after a string of high-level contacts, but articles in the Chinese state press on Friday took a more hostile tone.
"Although the Cold War has been over for years, the United States and other Western nations rely on the superiority of their communication and information technology to increasingly launch Cold War propaganda," China Youth Daily said.
"The real goal of setting up Radio 'Free Asia' is to use news media to interfere in the internal affairs of China and other Asian nations, to create chaos, and to destroy the stability of these countries," the newspaper said.
Radio Free Asia would only boost people's abhorrence of U.S. power politics and hegemonism, the China Youth Daily said, calling for Asia-wide vigilance against the station.
China last month told Washington to pull the plug on Radio Free Asia, created by the U.S. congress as an Asian counterpart to the anti-communist Radio Free Europe. But U.S. officials have said the local-language news broadcasts were here to stay.
The station announced on Thursday that it planned to begin beaming uncensored news to Tibet this month and to expand Chinese broadcasts next year.
U.S. commentators have suggested the station could become a new irritant in fragile cross-Pacific ties, particularly after U.S. congressmen reversed a change of name to the less contentious Asia Pacific Network.
Another potential stumbling block for Sino-U.S. reconciliation is the case of Chinese dissident Wang Dan, who was jailed for 11 years for plotting against the government after a trial on Wednesday that lasted less than four hours.
Beijing's human rights record has long been a major focus of U.S. concerns and a perennial source of dispute.
While the China Youth Daily focused on the pro-democracy rhetoric of Radio Free Asia, a separate report in the official Legal Daily took aim at the entire U.S. political system.
In a scathing analysis of the current U.S. presidential election, the newspaper said ordinary Americans had little say in the choice of their leadership.
"U.S. democracy is essentially democracy of the capitalist classes or democracy of the rich -- it certainly is not democracy of the whole people," it said.
Most voters chose not to turn out for mud-slinging contests between presidential candidates promoted by special interest groups, it said.
While some analysts see the Chinese media's anti-U.S. rhetorical broadsides as evidence of growing nationalist sentiment, Beijing officials say they are keen to mend fences with a nation also seen as a vital economic partner.
Talks aimed at averting a Chinese ban on imports of United States poultry have been hailed as a success by U.S. officials, who said on Friday they expected the issue to vanish without any disruption to a major market.
A Chinese ban on imports of poultry and poultry products from 10 U.S. states, worth nearly US$500 million a year, was now unlikely to be implemented, official U.S. sources said.
"I'm optimistic that the issue has been resolved," a U.S. diplomat in Beijing said by telephone.
"Hopefully, this thing will now be dropped. I'm not expecting any correspondence or a list -- sometimes no news is good news," he said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
A two-man team from Washington's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) spent two days in meetings with China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ) and scientists from other government departments and universities.
The aim of the talks was to convince CAPQ that U.S. poultry does not carry a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), contrary to Chinese fears that led to the ban.
"We are hopeful this issue has been resolved," said Ray Miyamoto, the APHIS area director in Beijing. "We feel their (CAPQ's) primary concerns were adequately addressed."
Miyamoto added that CAPQ planned to write a report that may or may not be made available to APHIS.
The meetings ended on Thursday. CAPQ was not immediately available for comment.
U.S. sources described the talks as "frank, open and candid" and said they augured well for other discussions slated for November on plant quarantine issues.
Wheat, however, remains shrouded in politics. Washington claims a Chinese ban on accepting wheat from specific U.S. areas because it cannot be guaranteed free of a fungus called TCK smut is, in effect, a non-tariff trade barrier.
A top-level Chinese delegation is due to leave for the United States this weekend for a two-week TCK fact-finding trip.
The poultry ban came to light on October 10 after U.S. chicken meat imports were blocked. CAPQ confirmed it to U.S. Embassy officials in Beijing the next day in a telephone call.
Nothing was ever received in writing from CAPQ, a source at the embassy said on Friday, and the ban was not implemented as CAPQ wanted first to hear what the U.S. experts had to say.
What the experts said, according to sources close to the meetings, was that HPAI, while widespread in wildfowl, was eradicated from commercial U.S. flocks in the mid-1980s.
The U.S. side seemed convinced that CAPQ had confused HPAI with the less-virulent avian influenza, or AI, which an APHIS source likened to the common cold.
Another U.S. source said the Chinese fears had been fuelled during a visit to Texas by CAPQ personnel to check on ostrich breeding stock destined for farms in southern China.
A number of birds there tested positive for HPAI, the source said, though this did not necessarily mean they were afflicted with the virus.
China is the second-biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products and its only market for chicken feet.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled 330,000 tonnes trans-shipped through Hong Kong alone, worth US$445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
The council's representative in Hong Kong, Sarah Li, told Reuters about 700 tonnes of U.S. chicken feet are transported across the border from Hong Kong into China every day.
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843 6470
MCI Communications Corp., the No. 2 long distance phone company, said Friday it was in talks to be acquired by British Telecommunications Plc in what would be one of the biggest mergers ever.
Industry analysts said that if a deal emerges, it would send shudders throughout the worldwide telecommunications industry, and present an especially tough challenge for AT&amp;T Corp., the leading -- but struggling -- U.S. phone company.
British Telecom already holds a 20 percent stake in MCI.
No price has yet been agreed upon, a source close to the deal said, but analysts were speculating on $40 a share, which would value MCI at $28 billion, and leave British Telecom with a bill for $22.1 billion for the 80 percent of the company it does not already own.
Washington-based MCI said it expected the talks to be concluded this weekend, although it noted that there were no guarantees an agreement would be reached. "MCI anticipates that its deliberations will be concluded this weekend and an announcement will be made prior to Monday morning," it said.
Analysts said a combination of the two companies would be a good fit in the super-competitive U.S. long distance phone industry, where MCI and No. 3 Sprint have been battling an ailing AT&amp;T Corp.
"This is AT&amp;T Corp.'s worst nightmare. (AT&amp;T Chief Executive) Bob Allen will not get a wink of sleep this weekend," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan, of Kagan Telecom.
"This is an extremely competitive business, and horizontal mergers like this make sense," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Lehman Brothers Global Economic Advisors. "The economies of scale in this case could be considerable, and the leverage in terms of potential profits is high ... It would be good purchase."
A spokesman for British Telecom confirmed the British company was interested in a merger with MCI.
A British Telecom-MCI deal would be the largest between a British and American company, and it would rank as the second-biggest ever involving a U.S. company, behind the RJR Nabisco Inc. buyout by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., worth $30.6 billion including debt, according to Securities Data.
British Telecom is aiming to offer a mixture of cash and stock for the 80 percent of MCI it does not own, one source told Reuters. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an announcment was expected on Sunday, if not before.
"If it is true, it would have huge implications for the U.S. market," said analyst Ken McGee of the Gartner Group. "MCI had taken competition about as far as it could go, and needs an infusion of capital for the next stage," he said.
MCI has around 20 percent of the $75 billion U.S. long distance market, compared with 55 percent for AT&amp;T. But both are also preparing to enter the $90 billion local calling market.
"It gives MCI an enormous warchest to attack the local markets and defend itself against the regional Bells in the long distance market," said analyst Guy Woodlief of Dean Witter Reynolds.
Analysts said British Telecom has a very strong balance sheet and free cash flow, which could help fund the coming multi-front marketing war, from wireless, long distance and local calling to satellite TV, Internet and business data services.
British Telecom suffered a serious setback in September after German utility RWE severed links with British Telecom to join a rival consortium led by Britain's Cable &amp; Wireless Plc. to provide service in Germany.
At the end of September British Telecom signalled its ambitions in the French market through a consortium involving Compagnie Generale des Eaux.
"It would be a good fit for British Telecom and provide a major foothold in this country," said Thom Brown, managing director of Rutherford Brown and Catherwood.
In Washington, lawyers and analysts said a deal would likely win approval of U.S. regulators.
"It appears this deal would pass (Federal Communications Commission) approval at first glance," said Scott Cleland of the Washington Research Group of Schawb Capital Markets.
An FCC rule adopted last year permits a foreign carrier to invest in a U.S. carrier in excess of a 25 percent cap, as long as the overseas company's home market is open for competition from U.S. telecommunications companies.
Scott Harris, a former head of the FCC's international bureau and now an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher, said that other than the U.S. telecommunications market, the British market is the "most open" in the world.
MCI was founded in 1968 as MICOM, or Microwave Communications of America Inc. It was the first company to be authorised by the Federal Communications Commission to compete against AT&amp;T in the domestic long-distance market.
MCI started offering point-to-point private-line service between Chicago and St. Louis in January, 1972, sold stock and was incorprated as MCI Communications in 1973.
The Washington-based company filed an antitrust suit against AT&amp;T in 1974. Six years later, a jury ruled in MCI's favour on almost all counts and awarded the company $1.8 billion, providing a warchest to fund its expansion following the 1982 decision by the Department of Justice and AT&amp;T to break up the giant's monopoly on the nation's long distance industry.
In a sign that agreement on a labour contract between General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers may still have significant hurdles, the union said Friday it cancelled a meeting of its National GM Council that was scheduled here for Saturday.
The council, made up of about 250 plant-level leaders at GM locals across the country, was expected to vote on a tentative agreement covering GM's 215,000 UAW workers.
UAW spokesman Reg McGhee declined to give a reason for the cancellation, but said the council will meet instead on Wednesday, Nov. 6, in Chicago, if the union reaches an agreement with GM in the next few days.
One official close to the talks said the meeting was cancelled because the union did not reach a deal in time to print up summaries for the GM council members to review on Saturday. He did not rule out reaching an agreement on Friday.
"They're working on trying to resolve the final issues," GM spokesman Gerry Holmes said.
Still, the cancellation was viewed as a negative sign for the GM contract talks, which had resumed Friday after bargainers rested up before making another push for a tentative agreement. They bargained for 32 hours on Wednesday and Thursday, fuelling optimism that a settlement was near.
The two sides have been haggling over the total number of hourly workers that GM will guarantee to maintain over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current hourly workforces, but GM wants to exclude several parts plants from the guarantees.
GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs and shift more parts work to outside suppliers.
GM is expected to match the Ford and Chrysler wage package, which calls for a $2,000 bonus in the first year, and 3 percent base wage increases in the second and third years.
Meanwhile, the toll of lost profits and idled workers from local strikes in Janesville, Wis., and Indianapolis continued to mount for GM.
Including 2,750 strikers at the Indianapolis metal stamping plant and 4,809 at the Janesville truck assembly plant, GM said the walkouts had idled a total of 13,309 workers by midday Friday.
Another 2,400 were scheduled to be sent home from GM's Shreveport, La., plant later Friday afternoon, and up to 2,500 workers in Linden, N.J., were told not to report to work on Monday.
The two factories are among nine GM truck plants in North America that receive fenders, hoods, roofs and other major body panels from Indianapolis.
Michael Ward, an auto analyst at Paine Webber, said the Janesville, Fort Wayne and Moraine shutdowns alone will cost GM $10 million a day in after-tax lost profits.
"We're looking at $10 million a day right now, and that could easily expand to $20 million by Monday," Ward said.
About 3,500 workers were idled at GM's Moraine, Ohio, compact sport utility vehicle plant Thursday night, while 2,250 workers were laid off at GM's Fort Wayne, Ind., full-size pickup truck assembly plant on Wednesday night.
In addition, 900 workers who build V-8 engines for trucks assembled in Janesville and Fort Wayne were idled on Friday.
A full-size truck plant in Flint, Mich., had been expected to be idled Thursday night, but union officials said GM diverted enough parts to keep it running several more days.
"GM'll start funnelling the parts around to the plants that they want to keep going," said Doug Bellamy, vice president of UAW Local 598 in Flint.
Layoffs from the UAW strikes are increasing as GM's U.S. car operations are still staggering from the effects of the three-week Canadian Auto Workers strike, which ended Oct. 23.
GM said it still had 18,958 workers idled by continuing shortages of Canadian-made parts at six car assembly plants, six engine and transmission plants and four metal stamping facilities.
General Motors Corp.'s sales slipped nearly 8 percent in October, dragged down by steep declines in car sales, while Chrysler Corp. posted another double-digit jump for the month, the automakers said Friday.
GM's total vehicles were 402,420 in October, off 7.8 percent on a daily sales basis from 420,408 in the year-ago month. October had 27 selling days vs. 26 a year ago.
Passenger car sales at GM were 215,276, a drop of 24 percent. All of GM's car divisions reported declines, including Chevrolet, where sales were 68,934, down 31 percent.
Offsetting the slumping car numbers were total light truck sales of 187,144, which climbed 22 percent on a daily basis from last year.
Three Chevrolet sport utility vehicles -- the Suburban, Tahoe and Blazer -- each had their best-ever sales month in October, with percentage increases ranging from 35 percent for the Blazer to 63 percent for the Suburban.
Production of the Tahoe and its GMC sister, the Yukon, has been halted at GM's Janesville, Wis., assembly plant since Oct. 29, when 4,800 United Auto Workers members walked off the job in a contract dispute. It is the only plant that makes the sport utilities, GM's most profitable vehicles.
As it has for the previous two months, GM blamed the passenger car drop on customers waiting for the introduction of GM's 15 new vehicle lines that will be hitting the market through the next year.
"I think there's a great deal of anticipation for the newer models that will be coming out," said GM spokesman Dean Rotondo.
The 20-day strike by Canadian autoworkers in October had a minimal effect on the month's sales, Rotondo said.
Sales of Chevrolet Cavalier were up 1.5 percent, and were down 12.4 percent for the Pontiac Sunfire, which Rotondo said could be related to the strike.
Meanwhile, Chrysler's total sales rose 18.6 percent to 205,393. Sales of passenger cars were 61,213, an increase of almost 13 percent. Sales of minivans, sport utilities and pickup trucks shot up 22.3 percent to 144,180.
Chrysler said the October total broke a record of 176,339 for the month set in 1972. James Holden, Chrysler executive vice president of sales and marketing, said about 75 percent of the October sales came from 1997 model vehicles, which consumers bought with a minimal amount of incentives.
"I believe that we've got a fundamentally different demand for our products than we've had historically, because it shows strength across the board and month to month," he said.
Holden predicted the U.S. No. 3 automaker will be able to sustain the sales momentum in 1997 because of its increased production plans.
Highlights for Chrysler included a 50 percent increase in sales of the Dodge Dakota Pickup, which was redesigned for the 1997 model year, to 8,722; and a 24 percent increase in all Dodge trucks to 74,860.
Other October sales reported Friday were: Toyota Motor Corp., where sales were 92,918, up 15.7 percent; Honda Motor Co. Ltd., which had an 8.8 percent increase to 74,914; Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., which had sales of 49,121, a decrease of 11.8 percent.
With 17 of 22 automakers reporting, total U.S. light vehicle sales for October were 912,037, a 1.5 percent daily sales rate increase from 865,378.
Ford Motor Co., the last of the Detroit's Big Three to report, is expected to post a slight increase in sales on Nov. 5, according to analysts.
For managers at the trendy specialty juicer Odwalla Inc., the revelation that their apple juice products were associated with a potentially deadly outbreak of E. coli food poisoning has come as a shock.
The company, headquartered in the easy-going coast community of Half Moon Bay, was founded 16 years ago on the premise that fresh, natural fruit juices nourish the spirit.
Company executives were morose as they met reporters for the first time on Thursday in the parking lot of the company's modest building, across a creek from the town center.
"It is very tough, to be honest, to be focused on health and nutrition all of your life and have this incident happen," Greg Steltenpohl said. He founded the business with a childhood friend in Santa Cruz in 1980, using a used juicing machine in a shed behind their house.
Odwalla has grown by more than 40 percent a year, with annual sales in its fiscal year to Aug. 31, 1996, surging 65 percent to $59.2 million. It is now estimated to account for more than 70 percent of the fresh-juice market in the seven Western states it serves, together with Vancouver, British Columbia.
The company prides itself on using cold processing, which it says leaves vegetable and other biological nutrients intact, and on a rapid store distribution system. Its marketing emphasizes freshness and the absence of pasteurization and artificial additives or preservatives.
Even its name, from a song poem by the Art Ensemble of Chicago jazz group, displays a sense of mission. The Odwalla is a leader who guided the "lost people of the sun" out of the "gray haze" -- of "overprocessed foods" in this case.
Steltenpohl and Chief Executive Officer Stephen Williamson said Odwalla had mobilized its 175 trucks and drivers, armed with hand-held computers, to recover recalled bottles from the shelves of more than 4,600 outlets in California, Washington, Oregon, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, Texas and Vancouver.
Executives immediately offered to refund the purchase price of any of the company's drinks, even those not among the 16 out of 23 fruit varieties recalled. They also said the company would pay for medical treatment for anyone found to have become ill through drinking an Odwalla product.
Although Williamson said the company had product liability insurance that he believed would cover the incident, the executives declined to answer questions about the financial impact of the recall and any subsequent actions.
Odwalla shares were up $1.13 at $13.25 by Friday afternoon after shedding roughly a third of their value on Thursday.
Jean-Michel Valette, an analyst at Hambrecht &amp; Quist, said publicity surrounding the recall would hurt sales but with insurance and $14 million in cash, "Odwalla has the resources to weather the storm."
Odwalla, which takes the precaution of keeping samples of each batch of juice it produces, is working with the Food and Drug Administration and Washington state authorities to determine how contamination might have occurred and how widespread it was.
But company officials said it was too soon to question their philosophy.
Corporate financing for a downtown Detroit sports stadium complex is in place and land acquisition nearly complete, Mayor Dennis Archer said Friday.
"We believe that we are very, very close in making it happen," Archer said at a news conference. "If property has to be taken, by condemnation or eminent domain, we will move in a timely manner in the manner in which it will be needed."
Legislation pending in the Michigan Legislature could help facilitate the condemnation process, Archer said.  
Archer also said a deadline of 1700 EST Friday for the Detroit Tigers baseball team and Detroit Lions football team to make a commitment to the $505 million stadium complex was flexible.
Lions President William Clay Ford Jr. said after the news conference that Monday was the true deadline, as Wayne County voters will have to decide Tuesday whether to approve a tax on hotels and rental cars geared at raising $80 million for the complex.  
"We can't go to the voters without this," Ford said after the news conference, referring to a complete accounting of land on which the complex would be built.
The owner of a parcel that houses the Gem Theatre appears to be the major holdout, officials indicated.
"The one owner is a big problem at this point," said June West, press secretary to the Wayne County executive's office. "There's a price issue."
The owner of the parcel, Chuck Forbes, could not be reached for comment Friday. West said stadium negotiators and Forbes were meeting Friday.
Microsoft Corp. Monday will unveil a set of software technologies that lets programmers more easily create software for sharing information through corporate and public computer networks.
Microsoft executives, including Chairman Bill Gates, also will discuss at an event in Los Angeles development plans for the company's Windows family of operating systems, the company said Friday.
At one of its periodic Professional Developers Conferences, Microsoft executives will encourage programmers to write commercial software based on Microsoft's standards.
Microsoft's event will be held the same week Oracle Corp., Microsoft's biggest rival in the corporate software business, is holding a conference in San Francisco to pitch its own approach to writing programmes for shuffling information through huge networks.
Both companies in recent months have been retooling their key applications and networking software to work on the Internet's World Wide Web and internal corporate networks called intranets.
Writing even simple programmes to let computer users collaborate on documents through networks tradionally has required intimate knowledge of difficult programming techniques.
The technology Microsoft will unveil on Monday will relieve programmers of the need to know the secret handshakes of its Windows operating systems, said Tanya van Dam, a Microsoft group product manager.
The move would encourage developers to base more of their commercial products on Microsoft's Windows NT networking operating system, analysts said.
Oracle has a similar aim.
On Monday, the company will unveil its own tools for writing intranet software for tapping information stored in Oracle databases, Oracle executives said.
Corporate programmers have written huge libraries of financial, manufacturing and human resources software using Oracle's products. The new programming tools would let programmers easily convert the libraries to work on the Web, Oracle said.
Olympic Financial Ltd said Tuesday it could reach a deal to sell the company by October.
"I would expect that the time frame hopefully would be sometime in October," said Warren Kantor, chairman of Olympic's executive committee, in an interview. He was referring to the process of its investment banker Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette considering strategic alternatives for the Minneapolis-based automobile finance company.  
Olympic said Monday it has received an indication of interest from a potential buyer. Kantor said others have also expressed interest in the company since Monday's announcement.
"Effectively, what I believe is happening is due to the public announcement, those people who would go through a longer time frame... want to be sure (they are) not left out," Kantor said.
He would not comment on the identity of any potential suitors, but said the first contact came from a company with investment grade credit.  
A combination with an investment grade company could allow Olympic greater access to capital to expand its business, Kantor said. Olympic's credit is not investment grade.
Olympic needs capital to expand technology as its business expands, Kantor said.
"We think that the circumstances of the company are such that it makes sense to consider offers in order to take advantage of our rapid growth and opportunities," he said, noting that access to capital could especially become an issue in the event of a recession.  
While capital may be harder to come by in a recession, demand for loans from Olympic's customers, who essentially need their cars to get to work, would not wane much, Kantor said.
Kantor would not rule out the option of remaining independent and slowing down its growth plans, but added that it was likely the company would receive an acceptable buyout offer. "While we think it is likely that we will get offers that are acceptable, we're not going to accept (just) anything," he said.
Olympic's loans serviced have jumped to $3 billion at the end of June from $1.5 billion a year ago and the company is looking to further expand into a somewhat higher risk loan category it refers to as Classic, Kantor said.
Those loans net 16-18 percent rates, while 80 percent of its portfolio is made up of loans at about a 12 percent rate, Kantor said, adding that Olympic wants Classic loans to make up 50 percent of the portfolio by the end of the year.
Kantor would not comment on analysts' estimates ranging from $25 a share to more than $30 a share as a sale price for the company. Olympic rose 2-1/2 to 26-1/2 Tuesday.
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
MCI Communications Corp., the No. 2 long distance phone company, said Friday it was in talks to be acquired by British Telecommunications Plc in what would be one of the biggest mergers ever.
Industry analysts said that if a deal emerges, it would send shudders throughout the worldwide telecommunications industry, and present an especially tough challenge for AT&amp;T Corp., the leading -- but struggling -- U.S. phone company.
British Telecom already holds a 20 percent stake in MCI.
No price has yet been agreed upon, a source close to the deal said, but analysts were speculating on $40 a share, which would value MCI at $28 billion, and leave British Telecom with a bill for $22.1 billion for the 80 percent of the company it does not already own.
Washington-based MCI said it expected the talks to be concluded this weekend, although it noted that there were no guarantees an agreement would be reached. "MCI anticipates that its deliberations will be concluded this weekend and an announcement will be made prior to Monday morning," it said.
Analysts said a combination of the two companies would be a good fit in the super-competitive U.S. long distance phone industry, where MCI and No. 3 Sprint have been battling an ailing AT&amp;T Corp.
"This is AT&amp;T Corp.'s worst nightmare. (AT&amp;T Chief Executive) Bob Allen will not get a wink of sleep this weekend," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan, of Kagan Telecom.
"This is an extremely competitive business, and horizontal mergers like this make sense," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Lehman Brothers Global Economic Advisors. "The economies of scale in this case could be considerable, and the leverage in terms of potential profits is high ... It would be good purchase."
A spokesman for British Telecom confirmed the British company was interested in a merger with MCI.
A British Telecom-MCI deal would be the largest between a British and American company, and it would rank as the second-biggest ever involving a U.S. company, behind the RJR Nabisco Inc. buyout by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., worth $30.6 billion including debt, according to Securities Data.
British Telecom is aiming to offer a mixture of cash and stock for the 80 percent of MCI it does not own, one source told Reuters. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an announcment was expected on Sunday, if not before.
"If it is true, it would have huge implications for the U.S. market," said analyst Ken McGee of the Gartner Group. "MCI had taken competition about as far as it could go, and needs an infusion of capital for the next stage," he said.
MCI has around 20 percent of the $75 billion U.S. long distance market, compared with 55 percent for AT&amp;T. But both are also preparing to enter the $90 billion local calling market.
"It gives MCI an enormous warchest to attack the local markets and defend itself against the regional Bells in the long distance market," said analyst Guy Woodlief of Dean Witter Reynolds.
Analysts said British Telecom has a very strong balance sheet and free cash flow, which could help fund the coming multi-front marketing war, from wireless, long distance and local calling to satellite TV, Internet and business data services.
British Telecom suffered a serious setback in September after German utility RWE severed links with British Telecom to join a rival consortium led by Britain's Cable &amp; Wireless Plc. to provide service in Germany.
At the end of September British Telecom signalled its ambitions in the French market through a consortium involving Compagnie Generale des Eaux.
"It would be a good fit for British Telecom and provide a major foothold in this country," said Thom Brown, managing director of Rutherford Brown and Catherwood.
In Washington, lawyers and analysts said a deal would likely win approval of U.S. regulators.
"It appears this deal would pass (Federal Communications Commission) approval at first glance," said Scott Cleland of the Washington Research Group of Schawb Capital Markets.
An FCC rule adopted last year permits a foreign carrier to invest in a U.S. carrier in excess of a 25 percent cap, as long as the overseas company's home market is open for competition from U.S. telecommunications companies.
Scott Harris, a former head of the FCC's international bureau and now an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher, said that other than the U.S. telecommunications market, the British market is the "most open" in the world.
MCI was founded in 1968 as MICOM, or Microwave Communications of America Inc. It was the first company to be authorized by the Federal Communications Commission to compete against AT&amp;T in the domestic long-distance market.
MCI started offering point-to-point private-line service between Chicago and St. Louis in January, 1972, sold stock and was incorprated as MCI Communications in 1973.
The Washington-based company filed an antitrust suit against AT&amp;T in 1974. Six years later, a jury ruled in MCI's favor on almost all counts and awarded the company $1.8 billion, providing a warchest to fund its expansion following the 1982 decision by the Department of Justice and AT&amp;T to break up the giant's monopoly on the nation's long distance industry.
MCI Communications Corp., the nation's second-largest long distance provider, said Friday it was in talks with British Telecommunications Plc on a possible merger of the two companies.
British Telecom already holds a 20 percent stake in MCI.
An MCI spokesman told Reuters the company expected the talks to be concluded this weekend, although he noted that there were no guarantees an agreement would be reached.
"We have entered into negotations with BT on a possible business combination," the spokesman said, reading from a prepared statement.
Industry analysts applauded the talks, saying a combination of the two companies would be a good fit in the super-competitive U.S. long distance phone industry, where MCI and No. 3 Sprint have been battling an ailing AT&amp;T Corp.
"This is an extremely competitive business, and horizontal mergers like this make sense," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Lehman Brothers Global Economic Advisors. "The economies of scale in this case could be considerable, and the leverage in terms of potential profits is high ... It would be good purchase."
MCI's stock was halted for trading at $27.25, up $1.875 on Nasdaq, although it jumped as much as $5 to $30.625 after CNBC television reported that the companies were talking. The exchange said it would investigate those trades.
"It would be a good fit for British Telecom and provide a major foothold in this country," said Thom Brown, managing director of Rutherford Brown and Catherwood.
"It wouldn't take away from the long-distance battle. Before that's over, there will be losers and winners," he added.
CNBC said Lazard Freres, MCI's investment bankers, and Morgan Stanley were working on the deal, which it said could be worth upward of $22 billion.
"It makes sense," said Kevin Haggerty, senior vice president and manager of equity trading at Fidelity Investments. "I think BT is a great company.  The synergy is there. BT made a great initial investment."
New evidence about British Biotech Plc's anti-cancer treatment Marimastat next week will provide important clues about its potential as a blockbuster product, analysts said on Friday.
British Biotech is using a meeting of the European Society of Medical Oncologists (ESMO) in Vienna to make five presentations, including Marimastat's effects in ovarian, colo-rectal, pancreatic and gastric cancer. It will issue a general update on Monday morning.
The Oxford-based group has become the bellwether for the increasingly crowded biotech field in the U.K, with sentiment towards Marimastat having a disproportionate impact on the sector.
Millions of pounds of investors' money has been placed on the bet that Marimastat will turn out to be Europe's first big-selling biotech product, with forecasts for annual sales ranging from a few hundred million dollars to up to $4 billion.
Monday's data comes from patients who continued to use the drug beyond the period necessary for completion of Phase II clinical trials. The company said this meant there would be a further six months of extra information.
Yamaichi International analyst Erling Refsum said he hoped to see the first hard evidence that patients were living longer as a result of taking Marimastat. Refsum said the surrogate marker data provided so far "is like the indicator board at the train station rather than the train actually coming."
In a note on the trials Lehman Brothers analyst Ian Smith, who will attend the ESCO meeting, said it might be possible to glean indications of the effect of Marimastat on patient survival in ovarian and pancreatic cancer.
There will also be interest in Marimastat's impact on gastric cancer, where little information has so far been available. And analysts are keen to see how serious the side effects caused by the drug are. The main problem reported so far is joint pain.
Yamaichi's Refsum said the results are "not definitive as to whether it works or not, but it is another indication as to whether it will sell or won't sell, and that is the bottom line." Lehman's Smith added that the results "won't prove Marimastat's efficacy but will raise the probabilities."
British Biotech will announce late-stage data on another key product, pancreatitis drug Lexipafant, on November 27.
Smith said that favourable news on both drugs could lift the group's share price to 300 pence by the end of the month from 230 at Friday's close. But Refsum is more sceptical about the potential impact of Marimastat and said 150 pence is "reasonable value" for the shares.
A British Biotech spokeswoman said Phase III Marimastat trials are likely to take two years to complete, meaning that the first results would not be available until 1998 at the earliest. But she said British Biotech would probably make academic presentations at conferences like ESMO from time to time to keep the market up to date.
Late stage trials on pancreatic cancer started in June, and trials in small-cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, gastric cancer and a form of brain cancer are being set up, she added.
Hordes of aggressive telephone resellers banging at the gates of AT&amp;T Corp, Sprint Corp and MCI Communications Corp have already grabbed $12 billion of the $80 billion long distance market.
But Monday's merger between MFS Communications Co Inc and WorldCom Inc allows tiny resellers to swarm into a rich citadel industry giants see as their own.
"Its international services, data, Internet and intranet as well as local service resale," said analyst Daryl Edmonds of brokers Bear Stearns.  
MFS is a provider of local calling networks to businesses, while WorldCom is a long distance and international carrier.
MFS WorldCom will be a ferocious competitor itself, able to offer end-to-end business services, but as a carrier's carrier it will allow in many resellers to new markets, by offering "own brand" telecommunication services off the shelf.
Fast growing resellers like Excel Communications Inc, one of over 400 such firms in the industry, have helped to eat away at the long distance telephone market and set the standard for cheap service, analysts say.  
For long distance companies, and regional Bells trying to defend their home turf, it will mean more competition, more pressure on margins and harder work to keep customers.
Profit margins and growth rates in high speed data, dedicated access Internet, international calling and broadband applications like videoconferencing are way beyond that seen in long distance, which is becoming a commodity market.
Resellers would threaten future sources of growth for the biggest firms in the industry.  
"You now have one company, MFS WorldCom, which crystallizes the brave new world (of competition)," said Simon Flannery of brokers J. P. Morgan.
He said resellers could always have pieced together such services, but this merger will make it easier.
Resellers focused on consumer services will not even be competing with MFS WorldCom's own branded product, which is pitched at small businesses.
UUNET, which MFS bought for $2 billion earlier this month, will be particularly empowered as a carrier of the internet services of others.  
As part of MFS WorldCom it will be able to call on 2,900 sales people across the country instead of 63.
"We think it is a very positive move for the reseller market place," MFS WorldCom chief executive designate Bernard Ebbers said during Monday's merger news conference, mentioning Excel and GTE Corp as possible buyers of services.
GTE and some regional Bells are already buying long distance services from WorldCom for their entry into that market. Using MFS's networks, they could now extend local services into cities in other parts of the country.  
This new competition is one of the aims of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, but the irony is this merger -- of an outsider in long distance and an outsider in local telephone -- could have happened even without deregulation.
"Both companies were unencumbered by national regulation," said Edmonds though he noted that to reach the greatest market opportunity they still need access to some elements of the Bell's local networks, a process eased by the telecom act.
"MCI or Sprint will say 'we can do this too'," said Flannery.
However, they are some way behind in their reach.
MCI this morning detailed its local phone service plans, but its MCI Metro network will only reach 25 cities by March 1997, while MFS already has 45 cities up and running.
However, analysts reckon it will be some time before MFS WorldCom can become a threat in the really high margin areas of dealing with the national or global communication accounts of large companies.
-- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
After meeting for nearly 32 hours, most bargainers for General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union adjourned talks without a national contract deal Thursday night as several more truck plants headed for strike-related shutdowns.
"Talks in several specific areas will continue tonight," said GM spokesman Charles Licari. "Full negotiations will resume Friday morning as bargainers continue their efforts to reach a tentative agreement."
He declined to identify the areas to be discussed Thursday night.
Talks "have snagged several times in the past week," said Harley Shaiken, a professor of labor relations at the University of California-Berkeley. "The pressure's been increased considerably by the two plants that are out on strike."
Indeed, plant-level union officials said the number of workers idled by local strikes in Indianapolis and Janesville, Wis., could reach nearly 21,000 by Saturday.
GM truck plants in Moraine, Ohio, and Flint, Mich., were expected to run out of fenders, hoods, and other sheet-metal parts from GM's strikebound Indianapolis stamping plant by late Thursday night, officials at the plants said.
Flint employs about 2,000 workers and builds crew-cab and heavy-duty, full-size pickup trucks, while Moraine employs about 4,000 and builds Chevrolet Blazer and GMC Jimmy compact sport utility vehicles.
"B-crew will come in tonight and that'll be it," said George Dunaway, vice president of International Union of Electronics Workers Local 801 in Moraine. Although his union is not involved in the UAW talks, he supports the strikers in Indianapolis and Janesville, Wis.
"A lot of their concerns are our concerns," he said.
Some states may determine that the laid-off workers won't be eligible for state unemployment benefits because they were idled by a strike.
The remainder of the nine GM truck plants fed by Indianapolis are expected to halt operations soon.
GM's Shreveport, La., compact pickup truck plant is scheduled to shut down Friday, idling 2,500 workers, and the Linden, N.J. plant, which employs 2,500 and builds both compact pickups and sport utility vehicles, will shut down Friday night.
GM's Fort Wayne plant laid off about 2,250 of its 2,600 workers as it halted production of GM's popular full-size Chevrolet and GMC pickup trucks Wednesday night. GM's other full-size truck plants in Pontiac, Mich., Oshawa, Ontario, and Silao, Mexico, are expected to follow close behind.
The strikes on Tuesday by 2,750 workers at Indianapolis and 4,800 workers in Janesville, Wis., have formed a two-pronged effort to squeeze GM's highly profitable light truck operations, increasing pressure for national and local settlements.
The shutdown of the Janesville plant alone could cost GM $50 million a week in pre-tax profits, adding to pressure on the automaker for national and local contract settlements, said David Healy, an auto analyst with Burnham Securities.
Meanwhile, other UAW locals sought to join the Indianapolis and Janesville walkouts. GM's Kokomo, Ind., electronics plant requested permission to send about 5,500 workers out on strike.
A walkout at that facility would be particularly damaging to GM because it supplies all of the automaker's North American assembly plants with engine electronics, audio systems and other parts.
The future of 12 domestic parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive remained a major sticking point in the negotiations. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs..
GM's stock gained 37.5 cents to close at $53.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Upstart satellite company EchoStar Communications Corp -- in the business only since March -- gave the nascent industry a major jolt this month when it cut prices sharply.
Then on Monday, Thomson, which dominates the satellite TV dish market, matched EchoStar's $199 price.
Thomson executives said the new price will surely shake up the industry and fuel sales for what is the said to be the fastest growing consumer electronics product ever -- one that even now is taking market share from the cable industry.  
"It will completely change the nature of the business," said Joe Clayton, an executive vice president at Thomson, the U.S. unit of Thomson-CSF in France.
The move by Thomson cut the price of the RCA brand digital satellite system by as much as $200 a unit. Combined with a $200 cash back offer by programming providers DirecTV -- a unit of Hughes Electronics Corp -- and U.S. Satellite Broadcasting Co, it cuts the total price to $199 for consumers who pre-pay for one year of programming.
The lower price will make it harder for new entrants in the industry to make money.  
"We know the telcos and the cable companies are getting more involved," Clayton said. "We are going to capitalize on our strengths now."
He added that the $199 price will make the "awareness base explode."
Thomson has an estimated 45 percent of the digital satellite system dish market, which amounted to 3.4 million units at the end of July, according to the Carmel Group.
"It's been a real winner for them," said Jimmy Schaeffler, an analyst at Carmel, a market research firm in Carmel, Calif. "Plus it has launched them into the international marketplace."  
Schaeffler said that, outside the United States, satellite television is gaining markets where there is no cable because it can leapfrog installing massive cable systems.
"Most of the rest of the world is not very cable wired, so there is a clear opportunity for direct broadcast satellite," Schaeffler said. Satellite TV is also becoming big in the U.S., as vaunted digital cable systems undergo trials.
New competitors see an opportunity in digital satellites -- a technology that is here now and working. MCI Communications, aligned with Rupert Murdoch's New Corp Ltd, already has a valuable U.S. satellite slot.  
When asked how low prices of the satellite dishes could go, Clayton joked he had never seen prices in consumer electronics go up. Analysts expects prices to keep falling.
"Maybe Charlie will take it to zero, but I don't think we will," Clayton said of EchoStar chairman Charles Ergen.
A spokeswoman said Englewood, Colo.-based EchoStar, which launched its satellite network in March, already has 125,000 subscribers for its programming, which has 40 TV channels and 30 of music, compared with 175 channels offered by DirecTV. The launch next month of a second satellite will increase its offerings to up to 200 channels, EchoStar said.
Apple Computer Inc. said Thursday it will cut U.S. prices of its Power Macintosh personal computers by as much as 30 percent to make the machines more competitive with those from rival PC makers.
The price cuts are part of Apple's effort to make its machines as attractive as so-called Wintel PCs -- machines based on Intel Corp. microprocessors running Microsoft Corp Windows software.
Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., said it will reduce the price of its high-end Power Macintosh 9500/200 to about $4,200 from $4,900.
The price of the entry-level Power Macintosh 7200/120 business machine will be cut to about $1,600 from $2,300, the company said. The price reductions, which will be effective Nov. 2, range from 9 percent to 30 percent.
Apple can afford the price cuts because it has reduced its costs significantly since a restructuring effort began nine months ago, said Byran Longmire, a Power Macintosh product manager at Apple.
"It shows that we can take aggressive pricing actions across many of our product lines and still maintain a healthy business," Longmire said.
Apple's computers have traditionally been priced higher than PCs with similar features made by companies such as International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp.
With the release of Microsoft's Windows 95 program a year ago, Apple lost much of its bragging rights for ease-of-use and saw many of its customers flee to the IBM-compatible world. In the past year, the company reported more than $800 million in losses amid falling sales.
To make its machines more attractive, Apple has had to cut its prices to keep customers from defecting.
"Now when a business customer does a feature-for-feature comparison between a Power Macintosh and a Wintel machine, that customer will find the Power Macintosh competitively priced," Gary Little, Apple's senior vice president of the Power Macintosh division, said in a statement.
The price cuts should help Apple increase the momentum it has gained in recent weeks, analysts said. Earlier this month, Apple reported an unexpected profit in its fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 30.
The price cuts will not "take Apple out of the hole, but we're seeing a more aggressive Apple, which is good news," said Scott Miller, an analyst at market researcher Dataquest Inc. The price cuts and the news about better financial health could convince more customers sitting on the fence to buy an Apple, Miller said.
Cellex Biosciences Inc said it expects to report a strong fiscal fourth quarter ending September 30 and to move into the black next fiscal year.
In a Reuters interview, chief executive Richard Sakowicz said revenues this year will be "substantially up" from last year. "We're going to have a good fourth quarter," he said.
As of June 30, the company -- which records revenues when it ships product -- had $3.6 million worth of work in process.
The Minneapolis-based concern expects to turn a profit next fiscal year, said chief financial officer Mary Lore.  
Formed in 1983 at the beginning of the biotechnology boom, Cellex makes and markets two types of machines for growing cell cultures used by drug and biotech companies.
Cellex's original business is in perfusion systems in which cells grow for 35-45 days on hollow-fiber membranes contained in cases through which liquid nutrients, such as sugars and vitamins, flow to feed the cells and flush out their waste products. The company has 60-80 percent of the $10-$15 million world market for perfusion culture systems.
In December 1993 Cellex acquired LSL Biolafitte SA, a French maker of larger, old-style cell culture tanks.  
Unlike perfusion systems, tanks grow batches of cells in a nutrient bath that produces for a few days before the cells begin to degrade in their own wastes and have to be replaced.
Biolafitte has 10-15 percent of the $100-million world culture tank market. About 80 percent of Cellex revenues come from sales of the technologically better-established tank systems, with the rest from perfusion systems, Sakowicz said, adding that perfusion system sales are growing faster.
For the nine months ended June 30, tanks provided three-quarters of revenues totalling $10.7 million, up from $7.5 million in the year-ago period, he said.  
Cellex posted a loss of $0.75 per share in the nine-month period, compared to a year-ago $1.69 per share loss.
To boost weak tank sales in the United States, Cellex plans to open a U.S. tank factory, Sakowicz said.
"We'll also be introducing over the next six months a number of bench-top research systems for fermenters," he said.
The company gets about $1.5 million in annual revenues from sales of disposable hollow-fiber packets for its perfusion systems. That figure is growing about 35 percent annually, although most revenues still come from sales of long-lasting tank systems and spare parts.
Shares in Cellex traded off 1/8 Tuesday to 2. Once as high as more than $14 per share, Cellex was hit hard by the biotech sell-off of late 1994, Sakowicz said.
He said he sees signs of renewed investor interest in biotechnology. "As we grow the revenue base and pay down our debt and lessen our dependence on major custom systems, I think our whole operating performance is going to be much improved and much more predictable," Sakowicz said.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Brewer to leisure group Whitbread Plc should report a 10 percent rise in first half earnings on Tuesday, kicking off the reporting season for drinks companies with a rosy picture of consumer spending on the high street this summer.
Analysts estimate pretax profits for the six months to the end of August in a range of 168-175 million, against 155.7 million last time.
Dividend forecasts range from 5.9 to 6.24p, up from 5.75p.  
"It's been a good performance in the summer. Consumer spending has picked up and on the beer side, they moved to higher margin premium beer. And you will see their acquisitions adding some benefit," said Ron Littleboy, analyst at Nomura.
Whitbread acquired health and sports club group David Lloyd Leisure for about 200 million stg and chain of 16 Marriott hotels in Britain for some 185 million in August 1995.
"If there is a surprise, it is probably on the upside and if that is going to come from anywhere, it would be on the hotels side," said John Beaumont, analyst at Merrill Lynch.  
The Whitbread hotel company includes about 130 budget Travel Inns, where new openings are running at a rate of about  one every two weeks, and Marriott hotels.
"The main growth will come on retail and leisure and what will pull them back is their leased pub side," said Littleboy.
WHitbread manages about 2,200 pubs mainly on 20 year leases.
The restaurant and leisure division includes TGI Friday, Pizza Hut, 50 percent owned by Pepsico, Costa Coffee, Thresher and Beefeater. Whitbread Inns, the managed pubs side of the business, includes Brewers Fayre which leads the casual-dining out sector.  
The company announced an agreed 133 million stg bid for Pelican Group of cafes in July -- including Cafe Rouge and Dome urban, French-style bistros -- which the company said would not contribute to earnings this financial year.
"One of the main variables that influences our future profit estimates is how quickly will they be expanding on the leisure and pub side," said Beaumont.
"And provided the company is still fairly sanguine on the roll out programme for these concepts, that will gives us a lot of reassurance."  
Some analysts are also keen to get a view from the company about the impact of a minimum wage for its workforce on its earnings -- the opposition Labour Party widely expected to win the forthcoiming general election has pledged it will introduce a national minimum wage.
Whitbread shares rose 10p to 729p in early trade Friday, as positive notes from analysts reached their clients ahead of the first half results. The stock set a high for the year of 757p in April. The consensus estimate for EPS, taken from 25 brokers polled by Reuters, is 47.40 for 1997, rising  to 52.30 in 1998.  
The company currently shows a 9.84 percent return on equity, against the leader in the FTSE 350 breweries and pub sector Aberdeen Steak with 99.68 percent. Rival Bass has a return on equity of 10.44 percent.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Fund management company Mercury Asset Management Plc is expected to post a good rise in pre-tax profits for the first half next Tuesday, having benefited from buoyant exchanges.
On Friday, MAM shares stood near their year highs at 11.32 stg, with analysts expecting pre-tax profits of around 80 million stg, up from 63.6 million stg last time
The market expects a higher interim dividend after six pence last year and some analysts see the company rebalancing the pay-out between the interim and final stage.  
Analysts said Mercury has already proved it can go it alone since it was broken away from former owner S.G. Warburg when the latter was bought by Swiss Bank Corp last year.
At the time, there was talk of Mercury being taken over as banks looked to expand their fund management interests. But, this speculation has evaporated, although the bid premium in MAM's share price may not have, and there is more interest in what Mercury itself might buy.
UBS analyst Martin Cross said any bid premium is unjustified and points out that MAM has a lot of capital, some of which it might want to spend on expansion in the U.S. markets.  
"That could be a worry, however, as there might be a fear that MAM would be buying at the top of the market," Cross said.
Phillip Gibbs, an analyst at BZW, said he expects MAM to follow the trend of recent years in making relatively small strategic acquisitions.
"It's been a pretty helpful period in terms of the markets, especially London where the FTSE index went up from 3,700 to 3,954 in the six months we're looking at," Gibbs added.
Analysts will be looking at Maercury's cost base to make sure there has been no untoward growth. In any case, cost growth is expected to have been comfortably exceeded by revenue growth.  
Gibbs said the key element would be how much new money MAM has been able to attract as this is the main indicator of the fundamental health of the business.
Mercury will also have profited from realisations in its venture capital business but the effects of problems at other fund managers, notably Morgan Grenfell Asset management, are not expected to have had too much impact in the first half.
Mercury may have picked up some business and the effect may be more marked in the second half. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864.
Rested negotiators for General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers met again Friday to make another push for agreement on a new national labour contract before a Saturday meeting of UAW leaders.
The bargainers went home without a deal Thursday night after meeting for nearly 32 hours, although some officials said the talks were grinding toward a settlement.
The negotiating session on Wednesday and Thursday was the longest since talks began between the automaker and union in June. Bargainers typically meet for long periods just prior to a tentative agreement.
"They're working on trying to resolve the final issues," GM spokesman Gerry Holmes said Friday.
Talks "have snagged several times in the past week," said Harley Shaiken, a professor of labour relations at the University of California-Berkeley. "The pressure's been increased considerably by the two plants that are out on strike."
The toll from local strikes in Janesville, Wis., and Indianapolis continued to mount as more plants shut down because of parts shortages.
GM's compact sport/utility plant in Moraine, Ohio, halted operations late Thursday night, idling 4,000 workers.
Seven other GM truck plants were expected to run out of doors, fenders and hoods made at the Indianapolis plant in the next few days. They include plants in Flint and Pontiac, Mich.; Shreveport, La.; Linden, N.J., Oshawa, Ontario, and Silao, Mexico.
Some states may determine that the laid-off workers will not be eligible for state unemployment benefits because they were idled by a strike.
The strikes on Tuesday by 2,750 workers at Indianapolis and 4,800 workers in Janesville, Wis., have formed a two-pronged effort to squeeze GM's highly profitable light truck operations, increasing pressure for national and local settlements.
Meanwhile, other UAW locals sought to join the Indianapolis and Janesville walkouts. GM's Kokomo, Ind., electronics plant requested permission to send about 5,500 workers out on strike.
A walkout at that facility would be particularly damaging to GM because it supplies all of the automaker's North American assembly plants with engine electronics, audio systems and other parts.
The future of 12 domestic parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive remained a major sticking point in the negotiations. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs.
China has ordered two Hong Kong democracy activists to leave the country after they tried to petition Beijing officials over the political future of the colony, Hong Kong sources and Chinese media said on Friday.
Beijing police had told activists Wong Chung-ki and Chui Pak-tai to leave China, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Hong Kong sources said the two had been trying to petition officials over what they called the "undemocratic" methods being used by China to select a chief executive to run the British colony after it reverts to Beijing rule on July 1, 1997.
"The Beijing Public Security Department issued a warning to Chui and Wong, asking them to return (to) Hong Kong within a stated time," Xinhua said.
It was not clear if the two campaigners, both members of local councils in the British colony, had already left Beijing.
Officials of a Beijing hotel had filed a public disturbance complaint against the two for distributing materials to reporters in the hotel on Thursday evening, Xinhua said.
Anxiety has grown in Hong Kong in recent months over how much political freedom China will allow after it regains control of a colony run from London for more than 150 years.
The jailing of leading Chinese dissident Wang Dan for 11 years by a Beijing court on Wednesday awakened fears that those who criticised the post-handover, Beijing-backed administration could face a similar fate.
Chinese authorities, currently overseeing the selection of a group to choose Hong Kong's first post-colonial chief executive, also barred two other pro-democracy advocates from entering the country on Thursday, activists in Hong Kong said.
Officials at the Sha Tau Kok border post refused entry to Andrew To and Chan Kwok-leung of the Hong Kong Democratic Party after keeping them in a room for two hours, To told Reuters.
All four activists had planned to lobby the China-selected Preparatory Committee that will select the committee to decide the chief executive, and to appeal for a reprieve of Hong Kong's current elected legislature, which Beijing has vowed to scrap.
A copy of a statement by the activists obtained by Reuters accused China of using undemocratic methods to choose the chief executive and condemned the decision to bar their colleagues from entering the country.
Their petition urged Beijing to scrap a plan to appoint a provisional legislature in place of the elected Legislative Council, and demanded the territory's future leader be elected instead of chosen by a China-controlled selection committee.
China, which has bitterly opposed democratic reforms introduced in Hong Kong in recent years, says the official Selection Committee will be well equipped to represent the will of the colony's six million people.
The rules for choosing the chief executive would guarantee a selection that was fair, honest and without corruption, Chinese Vice Premier Qian Qichen told Preparatory Committee members in a speech on Friday.
Analysts said a list of candidates for the Selection Committee released on Friday was dominated by pro-China politicians. The Preparatory Committee was scheduled to vote on the list on Saturday.
China has agreed to retain Hong Kong's capitalist system for 50 years but officials have suggested that freedom of expression in the bustling colony would be limited after the transfer.
A survey published on Thursday said most businessmen in Hong Kong expected press freedom, the political system and human rights to deteriorate after the return to Chinese rule.
U.S. Undersecretary of State Lynn Davis has arrived in Beijing for talks next week with Chinese officials on arms proliferation, a spokesman at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing said on Friday.
Davis would lay the groundwork for a visit by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher later this month, his first to China since a 1994 trip that ended in disaster because of wrangling over human rights issues.
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Robert Einhorn flew into Beijing earlier this week for expert talks ahead of Davis' visit, nthe spokesman said.
"Expert talks are going on today and she (Davis) will have her main talks on the 4th and the 5th on security issues and on proliferation issues," the spokesman said.
"She'll be going back to the United States to report to the Secretary of State," the spokesman said, adding that arms control would be just one of many issues Christopher would bring up with his Chinese hosts.
"He (Christopher) has a lot of things on his agenda," the spokesman said.
Sino-U.S. ties have long been strained by disputes over human rights, Taiwan, copyright theft in China and Beijing's terms of entry to the World Trade Organisation.
Washington has expressed deep concern over the Beijing court sentencing of prominent Chinese pro-democracy activist Wang Dan on Wednesday to 11 years in prison for plotting to overthrow the government.
Officials in Washington have said Davis also would discuss how the two countries might implement a decade-old peaceful nuclear cooperation pact that could allow sales of U.S. nuclear power reactors to China.
The accord, signed in 1985, has not been put into effect because of U.S. suspicions that Beijing is peddling nuclear technology to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities abroad, most notably to Pakistan. Both China and Pakistan deny the charges.
China agreed last May not to provide aid such as ring magnets and other devices used in making nuclear arms to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities.
U.S. officials have insisted they have no evidence China has violated the May agreement and say a reported nuclear-related deal between Beijing and Islamabad was struck before the accord was drawn up.
Beijing has tried to lure foreign technology, some of it with potential military value, with promises of lucrative business contracts.
Davis would also renew U.S. concerns over Chinese sales of conventional arms to Iran, which Washington has blacklisted as a sponsor of terrorism.
Washington is investigating reports that Indonesia and China are close to a deal to sell Iran five French helicopters that could be armed with air-launched missiles.
After a week of nervousness over its future freedoms, Hong Kong watched on Friday for the outcome of a Beijing gathering that will set the tone for the post-colonial government that takes over in 1997.
The Preparatory Committee of pro-China figures from Hong Kong and mainland Chinese officials was meeting in Beijing for two days to elect a 400-member caucus that will pick Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader and parliament.
The exercise will quicken the pace of the British colony's transition to Chinese rule in 242 days' time.
In the latest step in Britain's pull-out, Gurkha soldiers who were the backbone of the colonial garrison were set to bid a ceremonial farewell to one of their Hong Kong bases on Friday night.
Hong Kong was jarred this week by fears of a crackdown by China after the handover in view of the jailing in Beijing of prominent dissident Wang Dan.
The colony was also unnerved by remarks this month by Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, chairman of the Beijing meeting, that freedom of expression in Hong Kong would be limited after the sovereignty transfer at midnight next June 30.
On Thursday, a further jolt came when China barred entry to two Hong Kong politicians who wanted to petition the Beijing meeting against some of China's Hong Kong policies.
On Friday two more Hong Kong activists were expelled from Beijing.
On the eve of the Beijing meeting, a pro-China lobby group published a survey showing that most Hong Kong businessmen expected press freedom, the political system and human rights to deteriorate after the handover.
Some 72 percent expected less press freedom, 64 percent expected the political system to suffer, and 63 percent saw a deterioration in human rights, the survey by the Better Hong Kong Foundation showed.
A leading candidate to become the future leader of Hong Kong, former Chief Justice Ti Liang Yang, sought to allay fears this week that the territory would be forced to accept tough, Chinese-style laws on sedition after 1997.
"If you simply chant a few lines which do not incite any illegal acts, or which you don't expect to cause others to act radically, it should not be a problem," Yang said on Thursday.
But Yang and three other leading contenders for the top job were attacked by Hong Kong's leading democracy group for failing to condemn Wang Dan's 11-year jail sentence, saying they were ignoring local people's anger.
"They are not just angry about the fate of Wang Dan, what they are most worried about is whether Article 23 of the Basic Law will become a tool to curb their freedom of speech after the handover," said Szeto Wah, deputy head of the Democratic Party.
The Selection Committee make-up is expected to be announced on Saturday. The body will meet in Hong Kong next month to select the Chief Executive who will succeed colonial Governor Chris Patten next July.
British pay television operator BSkyB said on Friday that it was considering further investment in Germany and would beam its second pay-per-view sports event into Britain later this month.
The satellite broadcaster said pre-tax profit had risen by 31 percent to 66 million pounds ($107.5 million) in the three months to September 30.
The company, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is the leading shareholder, said that total paying subscribers had reached 5.65 million at 30 September, a net increase for the quarter of 146,000.
"The company has performed strongly in the first quarter and has achieved significant growth in both revenue and profits," said BSkyB chief executive Sam Chisholm.
"Our increased investment in all areas of programming and the quality and choice we offer our subscribers will maintain our impetus," he added.
Operating revenues for the three months to September 30 increased to 266 million pounds, a rise of 24 percent on a year earlier. Earnings per share were 3.9 pence, 30 percent up.
BSkyB shares rose 4p to 582-1/2p although analysts said the subscriber growth figures were "unexciting" and the profits in line with expectations.
BSkyB said in July that it would take a stake of up to 49 percent in DF1, the German digital television venture launched by Bavarian media mogul Leo Kirch. BSkyB said on Friday it was considering investments in additional German Pay TV channels.
DF1 has made a slow start but the German pay television market is expected to expand rapidly in coming years.
BSkyB said it would show its second pay-per-view event on November 9 when Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield meet in Las Vegas for the WBA heavyweight boxing crown.
BSkyB successfully experimented with pay-per-view when Tyson fought Briton Frank Bruno in March. More than 600,000 homes paid some 10 pounds to see that fight.
BSkyB has said it plans to introduce digital satellite broadcasting into Britain late next year. Pay-per-view sports events and movies are likely to be one of the prime sources of income from the extra channels provided by digital.
Niche channels Sky Scottish and The Computer Channel were launched on Friday, bringing the total number of channels available on Sky Television to over forty.
However, Friday's planned launch of WBTV-The Warner Channel was postponed at the 11th hour on Thursday evening.
The Warner Channel -- a mixture of Bugs Bunny cartoons and vintage movies -- was apparently a victim of the legal battle being fought in the United States between Murdoch and the combined might of CNN founder Ted Turner and Time Warner.
That clash of the titans centres on whether Time Warner, the second largest U.S. cable operator, will carry News Corp's 24-hour Fox News Service in New York City. Fox is a major rival to CNN, now part of Time Warner following a recent merger. ($1=.6141 Pound)
Lloyd's insurance market on Tuesday welcomed a crucial U.S. district court ruling in its favour and said it would extend a deadline for acceptances of a 3.2 billion pound ($5.5 billion) recovery plan.
"We have decided in the circumstances we will keep the offer open," Lloyd's chairman David Rowland said after a district court in Baltimore, Maryland, overturned an injunction by U.S. Names -- as investors in the market are known -- who were unhappy with the plan.
Rowland did not say how long the deadline would be extended from noon (1100 GMT) on Wednesday, but insurance sources said it would probably be stretched for several days to allow more U.S. Names to approve the plan.
A Lloyd's spokesman said the ruling had removed the last major legal obstacle to the 300-year-old insurance market's recovery plan, aimed at ending years of turbulence triggered by huge liabilities.
Lloyd's earlier said more than 82 percent of its 34,000 worldwide members had approved the plan, but only 53 percent of the 2,700 U.S. names had given the go-ahead.
"Since we won the appeal, faxes have been flooding in from U.S. Names accepting the settlement offer," a Lloyd's spokesman said by telephone.
Lloyd's hopes the support shown by Names will be enough to declare the plan unconditional when its ruling council meets on Thursday. The plan still has to be approved by the Department of Trade and Industry.
Lloyd's problems began in the 1980s when a fatal combination of negligent underwriting, poor investment advice and a sequence of unexpected natural disasters conspired to bring about losses of several billion pounds.
Long standing Names were for the first time in their lives suddenly faced with the prospect of unlimited losses.
A spokesman for one of the three key litigating British action groups representing major loss-making Names described the successful appeal as "very good" for the recovery plan.
"I think we did better by the settlement than by going through the courts," said the spokesman for the Merrett 418 Names Association, which groups 1,932 members.
Under the proposals, Lloyd's will reinsure its massive liabilities in a new company called Equitas. It is asking investors to help fund Equitas but has offered them a compensation package to help offset their losses.
Rowland said he was delighted by the U.S. ruling, which overturned a injunction granted by a lower court to a group of U.S. Names who wanted more time to study the terms of the settlement.
"I am very pleased. I have believed for a long time that what we are doing is in the interest of the whole society," Rowland told Reuters, adding he did not want to exclude anyone from the offer.
Many of the market's pre-1993 liabilities stem from pollution and asbestosis related claims in the United States, some of them dating back even to the last century.
Italy, seeking a larger role in helping to fold former East Bloc countries into NATO, believes it is better to integrate, and not isolate, fringe candidates like Slovakia and Romania, a senior Italian diplomat said.
During an official visit to Prague, Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs Piero Fassino told reporters late on Wednesday that Italy, as part of its new focus he called "Italian Ostpolitik", saw four countries as primary candidates for NATO's expansion.
"The position of Italy...is that the group of countries which definitely belong to NATO is Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovenia," he said, but added: "There's also a possiblity that Slovakia and Romania belong to that group."
He said it was important for Slovakia and Romania to implement agreements with Hungary aimed mainly at protecting the rights of ethnic Hungarians living in both countries.
Fassio said that before the West says "no" to Slovakia and Romania it was necessary to determine carefully whether they meet NATO's standards of democracy, but he added:
"If a country is integrated then we also have the right to require it to meet standards of the organisation it has joined.
"If it's isolated we can't demand anything," he said.
Both the EU and the United States have repeatedly lambasted Slovakia's government for slow democratic reforms and adopting laws threating to political opponents and ethnic minorities saying they might delay membership into "Western structures".
Fassio said it would be more useful to put fringe countries like Slovakia into the fold where more pressure can be applied.
"It is true that Slovakia is having problems fulfilling democratic principles, but the question is, 'Do we isolate Slovakia or integrate Slovakia?'. I believe it is more useful to integrate it," he said. REUTER
U.S. mutual fund giant Fidelity Investments said on Saturday that Canadian regulators were investigating trades made by Veronika Hirsch, the star manager of their new Canadian equity fund.
Hirsch's 27-city road show to promote Fidelity's True North fund has been postponed as a result of the regulatory review, said a spokesman for the Boston-based mutual fund company.
The tour was scheduled to begin on Monday.
"Veronika Hirsch ... was recently contacted by a regulatory agency about her personal investments before she joined Fidelity," Chethan Lakshman, a spokesman for Fidelity's Canadian subsidiary, Fidelity Investments Canada Ltd., said in a telephone interview.
"At this time it is appropriate to postpone the tour and we're hopeful that the regulatory review of her trading activity will result in a favorable conclusion," Lakshman said.
He did not identify the regulator, but Canadian newspapers reported on Saturday that the British Columbia Securities Commission was looking into the matter.
Lakshman said Hirsch was not available for interviews and he was unsure of her whereabouts.
The controversy is over Hirsch's investments in a Vancouver-based exploration firm, Oliver Gold Corp., earlier this year while she was a high-profile fund manager with AGF Management Ltd. in Toronto.
Hirsch, a flamboyant stock picker compared to her sedate peers in Canada's mutual fund industry, was hired by Fidelity with much fanfare in August after only 10 months at AGF.
Fidelity is conducting its own review of Hirsch's actions before she joined the company.
During her brief stint at AGF, Hirsch bought 65,000 special warrants of Oliver Gold for herself through a private placement in April, according to statements filed with the British Columbia Securities Commission and reported by Vancouver-based Canada Stockwatch, a newsletter which tracks Canadian stocks.
Hirsch paid C$1.53 ($1.14) per warrant.
A short time later, the AGF Growth &amp; Income Fund managed by Hirsch bought 295,000 special warrants, according to the filings with the B.C. commission.
The AGF fund paid over double the price, C$3.60 ($2.69) per warrant, paid by Hirsch.
Another related issue is whether Hirsch used a false address in British Columbia to buy the Oliver Gold shares. Canadian newspapers have reported that the home address of a Vancouver stock analyst and institutional salesman was used.
Hirsch is a resident of Ontario and the Oliver Gold stock was only available to British Columbia residents.
AGF chief executive officer Warren Goldring has said Hirsch broke company rules by failing to report her personal investment in Oliver Gold. He added Hirsch could have been fired if AGF had known about the trades.
The controversy swirling around Hirsch has dominated the business pages of Canadian newspapers, but Lakshman said the publicity has not hurt Fidelity's efforts to build a higher profile in Canadian equities management.
"We have had a lot of great responses to the (True North) fund. It has been well-received and has grown to more than C$150 million ($112 million)," Lakshman said.
General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union reached a tentative agreement early on Saturday for a new national labor contract, ending months of contentious bargaining.
"I think we said back in June that it would be a difficult negotiation, and I think we fulfilled that expectation," said a visibly tired GM Chairman Jack Smith. "Like any negotiation, you never get everything you want."
The three-year deal, which covers 215,000 hourly UAW workers, will not end local strikes that started on Tuesday night in Indiana and Wisconsin, where local grievances remain unresolved, UAW President Stephen Yokich said.
He also held out the threat of additional strikes among GM's 123 UAW locals that have not yet reached plant-specific agreements with the automaker.
"I would suggest that the company work hard and get their locals cleaned up," Yokich said. "Quite frankly the two that walked out have a heavy agenda on the table and they have a lot of work."
Yokich declined to say when the agreement would go to rank-and-file members for ratification, but about 250 local leaders from GM plants around the country would meet in Chicago on Wednesday Nov. 6 to consider the pact.
Instead of the traditional joint statements and handshakes between company and union officials, Yokich insisted that the two sides hold separate news conferences to announce the agreement shortly after 2 a.m. CST (0700 GMT) Saturday.
Details of the agreement were not released, but Gerald Knechtel, vice president of personnel, said it fits within the pattern that the UAW set at Ford Motor Co and Chrysler Corp.
Both of those companies agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current hourly workforces.
"The UAW presented its objectives to us and we talked about the objectives that we had and we found a way to address those within the pattern that was so important to the UAW," he said, adding that the deal allows GM to make competitive improvements.
The talks were said to hit several snags over the past week over several plants that GM wanted to exclude from the 95 percent employment guarantees. Among those were a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that GM has put on the sale block.
The proposed exceptions to the pattern were aimed at allowing GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, to cut costs and boost productivity.
Although all three of the companies pay a base wage of about $19 an hour, Ford and Chrysler buy more of their parts from lower-cost outside suppliers than GM does. GM wanted the ability to "outsource" more of its parts work.
Economic provisions of the GM contract were expected to follow those at Ford and Chrysler, offering workers a $2,000 bonus in the first year of the contract, followed by 3 percent increases in base wages during the second and third years.
The deal came as GM's production losses due to strikes at a metal stamping plant in Indianapolis and a truck plant in Janesville, Wis., mounted on Friday.
By late Friday, more than 19,000 workers at seven plants were idled, including 2,750 strikers in Indianapolis and 4,800 in Janesville.
A $22 billion deal between British Telecom Plc and MCI Communications Corp that would create the world's second largest telecoms group looked set to be announced on Sunday, sources close to the talks said.
BT said it had scheduled a news conference for 1300 GMT on Sunday at its Central London headquarters following an earlier announcement that it was in merger talks with MCI Communications Corp.
A spokesman said he could not say what the news conference would be about, only that it would be in connection with recent developments.
Executives from BT and MCI were locked in separate board meetings on opposite sides of the Atlantic on Saturday as they and their advisers attempted to stitch together the biggest deal ever in the rapidly expanding telecommunications industry.
MCI, the number two U.S. long-distance phone company, sent shock waves through the global communications industry on Friday when it said it was in talks about a takeover by BT.
BT, the dominant player in the British market, has been building its overseas presence in recent years and already has a 20 percent stake in MCI. The two also operate a joint venture known as Concert which serves customers in more than 50 nations.
Analysts are speculating on a price of $40 a share -- valuing MCI at $28 billion and leaving BT with a bill of about $22.1 billion to pay for the remaining 80 percent of MCI.
The deal would be the second largest involving a U.S. company -- topped only by the buyout of RJR Nabisco by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
A BT spokesman confirmed that the BT board was meeting over the weekend to consider an anticipated proposal from MCI.
BT's nine-storey corporate headquarters was a hive of activity on Saturday as bankers, lawyers and advisers worked alongside the BT board. A BT spokesman said that the MCI board was also meeting in Washington.
BT and MCI have both said there are no assurances that an agreement will be reached or that any transaction will be consummated. They have said a further announcement is anticipated before the London stock market opens on Monday.
BT had unsuccessful merger talks earlier this year with British rival Cable &amp; Wireless -- a deal which would have created the world's fifth largest telecoms group by revenue.
Any BT/MCI deal would spawn a massive company with a market capitalisation of some $64 billion, just ahead of AT&amp;T Corp -- the leading, but struggling, U.S. phone company. It would still be some way behind Japanese giant NTT Data Corporation -- the world's largest.
Analysts said a merged company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry where MCI and number three Sprint have been battling AT&amp;T.
Its critical mass would leave it excellently placed to expand into other international markets and new technologies -- MCI possessing the biggest Internet backbone in the U.S.
"This is AT&amp;T Corp's worst nightmare," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
AT&amp;T said late on Friday it was confident any MCI/BT deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government.
"We would expect that our government would condition any such merger on the complete and unqualified opening of the telecom market in the United Kingdom," it said.
However, analysts regard the British market as broadly open to competition.
For its part, Britain's Trade and Industry Department (DTI) said on Saturday it was too early to say what regulatory hurdles any merger would have to clear.
One potential problem is a media joint venture between MCI and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. BT would end up with MCI's 13 percent non-voting stake in News Corp and this could cause regulatory difficulties in Britain.
British telecoms watchdog Oftel recently banned a joint advertising campaign between BT and satellite broadcaster BSkyB, a company in which News Corp is the main shareholder.
A $22 billion takeover of MCI Communciations Corp would mark a spectacular end to Sir Peter Bonfield's first year as chief executive of British Telecommunications Plc.
BT was this weekend locked in talks with MCI, the second largest U.S. long-distance phone company, about buying the 80 percent of MCI it does not own.
The deal, if it can be clinched, would be a major coup for the former computer industry executive who took the helm at BT last January when the company split the roles of chairman and chief executive. Sir Iain Vallance, who had been combining the two roles since 1987, became BT chairman.
Bonfield's appointment was cheered by City commentators when it was announced last November.
The influential Financial Times newspaper described it as "one of the most positive events in the group's history".
The newspaper said the appointment marked "a turning point in BT's transition from public sector utility to competitive services group".
Bonfield, 52, had built a reputation for boosting revenue, curbing costs and international expansion during his 10 years in charge of ICL, the British computer company owned by Japan's Fujitsu Ltd.
"His wide international experience, his dedication to quality management and his in-depth knowledge of the computing services industry will be of particular relevance to BT, as we continue our global expansion," Vallance said when Bonfield moved to BT.
Within a few months of his arrival BT was in talks with British rival Cable &amp; Wireless about a merger that would have created a global telecommunications powerhouse.
Those talks ended unsuccessfully in May. But any MCI/BT deal would be bigger than that one that got away.
Bonfield has said he wants BT to be one of the most successful global telecoms companies 20 or 30 years from now. He believes BT's network of continental partners built up in recent years will allow it to become a true pan-European operator.
He has also targeted Asia-Pacific as a region where BT needs to expand, hence the attempt to do a deal with Cable and Wireless, which is very strong there.
Analysts say the critical mass from an MCI deal would provide the power to drive international expansion.
Bonfield also believes BT must become more responsive to its market. One of MCI's strengths is its reputation as an aggressive and fast-moving company.
He grew up in the small town of Hitchin, north of London, where he went to a local state school. He graduated in engineering from Loughborough University in the English Midlands in 1966.
He began his career with Texas Instruments, working in the field of semiconductors and computers in Europe, the Far East and the United States. He became a divisional director of Texas based in the U.S. before joining ICL in the early 1980s.
He became ICL managing director in 1984 and its chief executive and chairman the following year.
Bonfield, a trim, bearded individual, has an informal manner and a reputation for getting on well with colleagues. A married man, he lists his hobbies as sailing, jogging and music.
Executives from British Telecom Plc and MCI Communications Corp were on Saturday attempting to stitch together a $22 billion merger that would turn BT into the world's second largest telecoms group.
MCI, the number two U.S. long-distance phone company, sent shock waves through the global communications industry on Friday when it said it was in talks about a takeover by BT.
BT, the dominant player in the British market, has been building its overseas presence in recent years and already has a 20 percent stake in MCI. The two also operate a joint venture known as Concert which serves customers in more than 50 nations.
Analysts are speculating on a price of $40 a share -- valuing MCI at $28 billion and leaving BT with a bill of about $22.1 billion to pay for the remaining 80 percent of MCI.
The deal would be the biggest yet in the rapidly changing telecommunications market and the second largest involving a U.S. company -- topped only by the buyout of RJR Nabisco by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
A BT spokesman confirmed that the BT board was meeting over the weekend to consider an anticipated proposal from MCI.
He would not be drawn on where the meeting was taking place, saying only that BT chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield was not in the United States.
The spokesman said an announcement was anticipated prior to the opening of the London stock market on Monday. Sources close to the talks said no announcement was likely on Saturday.
BT and MCI have both said there are no assurances that an agreement will be reached or that any transaction will be consummated.
BT had unsuccessful merger talks earlier this year with British rival Cable &amp; Wireless -- a deal which would have created the world's fifth largest telecoms group by revenue.
Any BT/MCI deal would spawn a massive company with a market capitalisation of some $64 billion, just ahead of AT&amp;T Corp -- the leading, but struggling, U.S. phone company. It would still be some way behind Japanese giant NTT Data Corporation -- the world's largest.
Analysts said a merged company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry where MCI and number three Sprint have been battling AT&amp;T.
Its critical mass would leave it excellently placed to expand into other international markets and new technologies -- MCI possessing the biggest Internet backbone in the U.S.
"This is AT&amp;T Corp's worst nightmare," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
AT&amp;T said late on Friday that it was confident any MCI/BT deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government.
"We would expect that our government would condition any such merger on the complete and unqualified opening of the telecom market in the United Kingdom," it said.
However, analysts regard the British market as broadly open to competition.
For its part, Britain's Trade and Industry Department (DTI) said on Saturday it was too early to say what regulatory hurdles any merger would have to clear.
One potential problem is a media joint venture between MCI and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. BT would end up with MCI's 13 percent non-voting stake in News Corp and this could cause regulatory difficulties in Britain.
British telecoms watchdog Oftel recently banned a joint advertising campaign between BT and satellite broadcaster BSkyB, a company in which News Corp is the main shareholder.
A China-selected committee on Saturday chose 340 members of the group which will select the first chief executive to lead post-colonial Hong Kong, and said the final appointment would be made in early December.
The Hong Kong Preparatory Committee, a group hand-picked by Beijing to chart the British colony's return to Chinese rule on July 1 next year, chose 340 members of the Selection Committee from a list dominated by pro-China politicians.
The 400-member Selection Committee would make the final selection of the first post-colonial chief executive in a meeting on December 11 in Hong Kong, officials of China's Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office said.
"The 400 members of the Selection Committee are shouldering a great historic mission, I hope they willl not let down the trust of the nation and will not let down the hopes of six million Hong Kong people," said Chinese Vice-Premier Qian Qichen.
The committee should chose a leader capable of maintaining Hong Kong's stability and prosperity, Qian said in a speech to the Preparatory Committee in Beijing's cavernous Great Hall of the People.
The Preparatory Committee meeting chose the 340 Selection Committe members from a prepared list of 409 candidates made up largely of prominent Hong Kong politicians, well-known businessmen and community leaders.
"I think this is a very broad-based representative committee," Chen Ziying of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, when asked why few democrats were in the group.
Preparatory Committee members select 340 of the 400 members. Of the remaining 60 seats, 26 automatically go to 26 delegates on China's National People's Congress, or parliament.
The other 34 members will be appointed by local deputies of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
The Selection Committee will also choose a provisional legislature to replace the current elected Legislative Council on July 1, 1997.
Anxiety has grown in Hong Kong in recent months over how much political freedom China will allow after it regains control of a colony run by Britain for more than 150 years.
Democratic campaigners in the colony have accused Beijing of using undemocratic methods to shape its future government and have condemned the scrapping of the existing legislature.
China this week ordered two Hong Kong democratic activists to leave the country after they tried to deliver a petition to officials that criticised the selection method and called for a reprieve of the legislature.
Businessmen Peter Woo and Tung Chee-hwa and retired judge Simon Li, who are front-runners in the contest to become Hong Kong's chief executive after the handover, are members of the Preparatory Committee.
Woo and Li voted in the Selection Committee election, while Tung -- regarded by many as China's favourite -- abstained.
Former Chief Justice Ti Liang Yang, another key candidate for the top job, is not a member of the Preparatory Committee.
General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union reached a tentative deal for a job-preserving labour contract early Saturday, but the accord failed to halt costly local strikes in Wisconsin and Indiana.
The three-year national agreement, which covers wages, benefits and job security for GM's 215,000 hourly UAW workers, did little to resolve contentious plant-specific issues that remain unresolved at most of the carmaker's 123 locals.
UAW President Stephen Yokich, announcing the pact at a 2 a.m. EST (0700 GMT) news conference, held out the threat of "We can't tell you what's going to happen in the other locals," Yokich said. "I would suggest that the company work very hard and get their locals cleaned up."
President Clinton applauded the agreement. "I am very hopeful that the tentative agreement will be ratified, and that the outstanding local issues will quickly be resolved so that everyone can get back to work," he said.
On Tuesday night, about 2,750 workers walked off the job at GM's Indianapolis metal stamping plant and 4,800 struck the company's Janesville, Wisconsin, truck assembly plant over local grievances, including demands for more workers to deal with increasing workloads.
The strike at Indianapolis cut off supplies of fenders, hoods, roofs and other steel body panels to nine GM North American truck plants. It threatened to paralyse much of GM's highly profitable light truck operations by early next week.
On Saturday, more than 19,000 workers at seven GM assembly and components plants were idled because of the two strikes. That comes on top of 18,958 U.S. workers still on layoff status because of lingering parts shortages from a three-week Canadian Auto Workers strike that ended Oct. 23.
Analysts estimate the UAW-related shutdowns will cost the carmaker $20 million a day in lost profits, on top of a $350 million loss from the Canadian walkout.
But the national UAW accord Saturday appeared to push negotiations in Janesville and Indianapolis forward. "I think they've intensified their talks a bit," said an official at UAW Local 95 in Janesville.
UAW Local 292 officials also reported progress in local talks at GM's 5,500-employee Delco Electronics plant in Kokomo, Indiana. On Thursday, the unit sought Yokich's permission to join the other locals on strike.
The UAW-GM national agreement will be submitted to rank-and-file members for ratification after about 250 UAW leaders meet to consider the pact on Wednesday in Chicago.
The deal was unanimously approved by the union's national GM bargaining council.
Details of the pact were not released Saturday, but Gerald Knechtel, GM vice president of personnel, said it fits within the pattern that the UAW set at Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp.
Both of those companies agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current hourly workforces and will give workers a $2,000 bonus in the first year of the contract, followed by three percent raises in the second and third years of the contract.
Knechtel said GM will depend on its UAW workforce to gain efficiencies over the next three years. The company had been seeking the flexibility to shift more work to lower-cost outside suppliers.
"We feel we have the ability to make competitive improvements in the company. We will need to do that with the UAW," he said.
In a sign that contentious issues remain, company and union officials did not announce the pact in a joint news conference with the traditional handshakes and smiles. Instead, they held made grim-faced separate statements to reporters gathered at GM's Detroit headquarters building.
"I think we said back in June that it would be a difficult negotiation, and I think we fulfilled that expectation," said a visibly tired GM Chairman Jack Smith. "Like any negotiation, you never get everything you want."
The talks were said to hit several snags during the past week over plants that GM wanted to exclude from the 95 percent employment guarantees. Among those were a door hinge plant in Flint, Michigan, and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Michigan, that the company has put on the sale block.
The proposed exceptions to the pattern were aimed at allowing GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, to cut costs and boost productivity.
Although all three of the companies pay a base wage of about $19 an hour, Ford and Chrysler buy more of their parts from lower-cost outside suppliers than GM does.
Strike-fueled production losses mounted for General Motors Corp. Friday as the United Auto Workers signaled a snag in labor contract talks by canceling a Saturday meeting of plant-level leaders here.
The UAW said its 250-member National GM Council was now scheduled to meet Wednesday, Nov. 6, in Chicago if the union reaches a tentative agreement covering 215,000 GM workers in the next few days.
Although GM officials declined to rule out an agreement on Friday, the UAW's move was viewed as a negative sign for the talks because it buys more time. The council, made up of local leaders from across the country, must approve any contract deal.
Meanwhile, pressure from local strikes in Indiana and Wisconsin mounted Friday as the number of workers idled by the walkouts exceeded 19,000.
In a two-pronged effort to deprive GM of profits from its light truck operations, 2,750 workers walked off the job at the company's Indianapolis metal stamping plant and 4,809 struck the Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant Tuesday.
The Indianapolis plant feeds fenders, doors, hoods and other major body panels to nine of GM's 11 North American light truck plants, five of which are now idle, including Janesville.
GM's Shreveport, La., compact pickup truck plant shut down Friday, idling 2,400 workers, while GM's Linden, N.J., plant, which employs about 2,500 workers, was expected to run out of parts Friday night. Linden produces Chevrolet and GMC compact pickups and sport utility vehicles.
About 3,500 workers were idled at GM's Moraine, Ohio, compact sport utility vehicle plant Thursday night, while 2,250 workers were laid off at GM's Fort Wayne, Ind., full-size pickup truck assembly plant on Wednesday night.
In addition, 900 workers who build V-8 engines for trucks assembled in Janesville and Fort Wayne were idled on Friday.
Michael Ward, an auto analyst at Paine Webber, said the Janesville, Fort Wayne and Moraine shutdowns alone will cost GM $10 million a day in after-tax lost profits.
"We're looking at $10 million a day right now, and that could easily expand to $20 million by Monday," Ward said.
GM's board of directors on Monday is expected to delay an anticipated increase in the company's quarterly common stock dividend if a deal is not reached soon. The company's quarterly payout rate of 40 cents a share is unchanged since February, despite strong profits.
Rewarding shareholders could jeopardize the talks, especially when GM is seeking concessions that would allow it to cut costs and sell off unprofitable plants, said Dean Witter Reynolds auto analyst Ronald Glantz.
"Unless a settlement is reached by Sunday, the board is not going to throw gasoline into the fire," Glantz said.
Full-size pickup truck plants in Flint and Pontiac, Mich., Oshawa, Ontario could run out of parts within the next several days, while a GM truck plant in Silao, Mexico, was believed to have a greater supply of parts on hand.
Layoffs from the UAW strikes are increasing as GM's U.S. car operations are still staggering from the effects of the three-week Canadian Auto Workers strike, which ended Oct. 23 and is estimated to cost the automaker $350 million to $375 million.
GM said it still had 18,958 workers idled by continuing shortages of Canadian-made parts at six car assembly plants, six engine and transmission plants and four metal stamping facilities.
The two sides have been haggling over the total number of hourly workers that GM will guarantee to maintain over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current hourly workforces, but GM wants to exclude several parts plants from the guarantees.
GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs and shift more parts work to outside suppliers.
GM is expected to match the Ford and Chrysler wage package, which calls for a $2,000 bonus in the first year, and 3 percent base wage increases in the second and third years.
A $22 billion merger between British Telecommunications Plc and MCI Communications Corp looks as good as agreed, crystallising the largest ever international business combination in record time.
Analysts and consultants said on Saturday that news of a London news conference at 8 a.m. EST (1300 GMT) on Sunday means the boards needed minimal time to wrap up the deal after the negotiations were reported on Friday.
MCI announced it would hold a news conference in New York at 2 p.m. EST (1900 GMT).
"At this point it really does sound like a done deal," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
At the conference, BT executives are likely to announce a $40 per share stock and cash offer valuing the 80 percent of MCI that it doesn't already own at $22.1 billion, and the entire company at $28 billion, analysts said.
If BT, with a market capitalisation of around 22.2 billion stg ($36.3 billion) uses mainly stock to foot the bill, it could mean MCI shareholders would own up to 37 percent of the combined company.
As a single company BT/MCI would be a true colossus, with revenues of $38 billion, 182,000 employees and a market value of $64 billion.
In the international big league it would be behind only Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp of Japan and AT&amp;T Corp of the United States. In Europe, it would be roughly the same size as Deutsche Telekom AG.
MCI directors, meeting on Saturday in "The Mausoleum," the name MCI staff give to their granite-domed Washington headquarters, have reason to be well pleased with the deal.
Analysts say MCI management will be left in charge of the U.S. market, and be given more money to fight in new markets and defend existing ones in the new deregulated environment.
"It is inconceivable to me that BT would change the MCI management," Kagan said.
For MCI the deal brings a 30 percent fillip to a stock price that had languished for almost two years, but for BT the benefits may be more symbolic than actual, analysts say.
"What does BT get for its $22 billion?" asked David Goodtree of Forrester Research.
"You only need a global strategy to serve big businesses and they already have their Concert venture to serve that market. Other markets are regional," he said.
Economies of scale would be hard to find. Both companies already squeeze their suppliers to the limit, their brands are already strong in their respective markets, and geography and local market knowledge will continue to dictate fortunes.
According to one source close to the deal, staff numbers are not going to be cut as part of the deal, although existing job and cost cutting initiatives will continue.
A final hurdle, long thought insuperable to such a deal, is U.S. regulatory objections. But regulatory experts say the Federal Communications Commission itself opened a loophole earlier this year.
The FCC made a ruling that said bidders from truly open markets would be allowed to exceed the 25 percent limit on foreign ownership of U.S. media and communication assets.
"BT's home U.K. market is the most open in Europe and arguably the most open in the world," said Bill Gaik, telecommunications director for Deloitte &amp; Touche Consulting.
U.S. mutual fund giant Fidelity Investments said on Saturday that Canadian regulators were investigating trades made by Veronika Hirsch, the star manager of their new Canadian equity fund.
Hirsch's 27-city road show to promote Fidelity's True North fund has been postponed as a result of the regulatory review, said a spokesman for the Boston-based mutual fund company.
The tour was scheduled to begin on Monday.
"Veronika Hirsch ... was recently contacted by a regulatory agency about her personal investments before she joined Fidelity," Chethan Lakshman, a spokesman for Fidelity's Canadian subsidiary, Fidelity Investments Canada Ltd., said in a telephone interview.
"At this time it is appropriate to postpone the tour and we're hopeful that the regulatory review of her trading activity will result in a favourable conclusion," Lakshman said.
He did not identify the regulator, but Canadian newspapers reported on Saturday that the British Columbia Securities Commission was looking into the matter.
Lakshman said Hirsch was not available for interviews and he was unsure of her whereabouts.
The controversy is over Hirsch's investments in a Vancouver-based exploration firm, Oliver Gold Corp., earlier this year while she was a high-profile fund manager with AGF Management Ltd. in Toronto.
Hirsch, a flamboyant stock picker compared to her sedate peers in Canada's mutual fund industry, was hired by Fidelity with much fanfare in August after only 10 months at AGF.
Fidelity is conducting its own review of Hirsch's actions before she joined the company.
During her brief stint at AGF, Hirsch bought 65,000 special warrants of Oliver Gold for herself through a private placement in April, according to statements filed with the British Columbia Securities Commission and reported by Vancouver-based Canada Stockwatch, a newsletter which tracks Canadian stocks.
Hirsch paid C$1.53 ($1.14) per warrant.
A short time later, the AGF Growth &amp; Income Fund managed by Hirsch bought 295,000 special warrants, according to the filings with the B.C. commission.
The AGF fund paid over double the price, C$3.60 ($2.69) per warrant, paid by Hirsch.
Another related issue is whether Hirsch used a false address in British Columbia to buy the Oliver Gold shares. Canadian newspapers have reported that the home address of a Vancouver stock analyst and institutional salesman was used.
Hirsch is a resident of Ontario and the Oliver Gold stock was only available to British Columbia residents.
AGF chief executive officer Warren Goldring has said Hirsch broke company rules by failing to report her personal investment in Oliver Gold. He added Hirsch could have been fired if AGF had known about the trades.
The controversy swirling around Hirsch has dominated the business pages of Canadian newspapers, but Lakshman said the publicity has not hurt Fidelity's efforts to build a higher profile in Canadian equities management.
"We have had a lot of great responses to the (True North) fund. It has been well-received and has grown to more than C$150 million ($112 million)," Lakshman said.
A $22 billion merger between British Telecommunications Plc and MCI Communications Corp looks as good as agreed, crystallising the largest ever international business combination in record time.
Analysts and consultants said on Saturday that news of a London news conference at 8 a.m. EST (1300 GMT) on Sunday means the boards needed minimal time to wrap up the deal after the negotiations were reported on Friday.
MCI announced it would hold a news conference in New York at 2 p.m. EST (1900 GMT).
"At this point it really does sound like a done deal," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
At the conference BT executives are likely to announce a $40 per share stock and cash offer valuing the 80 percent of MCI that it doesn't already own at $22.1 billion, and the entire company at $28 billion, analysts said.
If BT, with a market capitalisation of around 22.2 billion stg ($36.3 billion) uses mainly stock to foot the bill, it could mean MCI shareholders would own up to 37 percent of the combined company.
As a single company BT/MCI would be a true colossus, with revenues of $38 billion, 182,000 employees and a market value of $64 billion.
In the international big league it would be behind only Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp of Japan and AT&amp;T Corp of the United States. In Europe, it would be roughly the same size as Deutsche Telekom AG.
MCI directors, meeting on Saturday in "The Mausoleum," the name MCI staff give to their granite-domed Washington headquarters, have reason to be well pleased with the deal.
Analysts say MCI management will be left in charge of the U.S. market, and be given more money to fight in new markets and defend existing ones in the new deregulated environment.
"It is inconceivable to me that BT would change the MCI management," Kagan said.
For MCI the deal brings a 30 percent fillip to a stock price that had languished for almost two years, but for BT the benefits may be more symbolic than actual, analysts say.
"What does BT get for its $22 billion?" asked David Goodtree of Forrester Research.
"You only need a global strategy to serve big businesses and they already have their Concert venture to serve that market. Other markets are regional," he said.
Economies of scale would be hard to find. Both companies already squeeze their suppliers to the limit, their brands are already strong in their respective markets, and geography and local market knowledge will continue to dictate fortunes.
According to one source close to the deal, staff numbers are not going to be cut as part of the deal, although existing job and cost cutting initiatives will continue.
A final hurdle, long thought insuperable to such a deal, is U.S. regulatory objections. But regulatory experts say the Federal Communications Commission itself opened a loophole earlier this year.
The FCC made a ruling that said bidders from truly open markets would be allowed to exceed the 25 percent limit on foreign ownership of U.S. media and communication assets.
"BT's home U.K. market is the most open in Europe and arguably the most open in the world," said Bill Gaik, telecommunications director for Deloitte &amp; Touche Consulting.
A $22 billion deal between British Telecom and MCI Communications Corp. that would create the world's second largest telecoms group looked set to be announced Sunday, sources close to the talks said.
BT said it had scheduled a news conference for 8 a.m. EST Sunday at its Central London headquarters following an earlier announcement that it was in merger talks with MCI Communications Corp.
A spokesman said he could not say what the news conference would be about, only that it would be in connection with recent developments.
Executives from BT and MCI were locked in separate board meetings on opposite sides of the Atlantic Saturday as they and their advisers attempted to stitch together the biggest deal ever in the rapidly expanding telecommunications industry.
MCI, the number two U.S. long-distance phone company, sent shock waves through the global communications industry Friday when it said it was in talks about a takeover by BT.
BT, the dominant player in the British market, has been building its overseas presence in recent years and already has a 20 percent stake in MCI. The two also operate a joint venture known as Concert which serves customers in more than 50 nations.
Analysts are speculating on a price of $40 a share -- valuing MCI at $28 billion and leaving BT with a bill of about $22.1 billion to pay for the remaining 80 percent of MCI.
The deal would be the second largest involving a U.S. company -- topped only by the buyout of RJR Nabisco by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.
A BT spokesman confirmed that the BT board was meeting over the weekend to consider an anticipated proposal from MCI.
BT's nine-story corporate headquarters was a hive of activity Saturday as bankers, lawyers and advisers worked alongside the BT board. A BT spokesman said that the MCI board was also meeting in Washington.
BT and MCI have both said there are no assurances that an agreement will be reached or that any transaction will be consummated. They have said a further announcement is anticipated before the London stock market opens Monday.
BT had unsuccessful merger talks earlier this year with British rival Cable &amp; Wireless -- a deal which would have created the world's fifth largest telecoms group by revenue.
Any BT/MCI deal would spawn a massive company with a market capitalisation of some $64 billion, just ahead of AT&amp;T Corp -- the leading, but struggling, U.S. phone company. It would still be some way behind Japanese giant NTT Data Corporation -- the world's largest.
Analysts said a merged company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry where MCI and number three Sprint have been battling AT&amp;T.
Its critical mass would leave it excellently placed to expand into other international markets and new technologies -- MCI possessing the biggest Internet backbone in the U.S.
"This is AT&amp;T Corp's worst nightmare," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
AT&amp;T said late Friday it was confident any MCI/BT deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government.
"We would expect that our government would condition any such merger on the complete and unqualified opening of the telecom market in the United Kingdom," it said.
However, analysts regard the British market as broadly open to competition.
For its part, Britain's Trade and Industry Department (DTI) said Saturday it was too early to say what regulatory hurdles any merger would have to clear.
Labor negotiations between General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers went around the clock into early Saturday morning as pressure from strike-related production losses mounted on the world's largest car maker.
Bargainers at GM's world headquarters were said to be haggling over a list of plants that GM wants to exclude from employment guarantees in the three-year national contract covering 215,000 hourly workers.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current hourly work forces, but GM wants to exclude several parts plants from the guarantees, including a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., now on the sale block.
"It ain't done yet," one union negotiator at GM's Detroit headquarters said on Friday night.
GM spokesman Gerry Holmes declined to rule out a settlement early on Saturday, but would not characterize the progress of the discussions.
Bargainers struggled for nearly 45 hours from Wednesday through Friday over the proposed exceptions to the pattern, which was aimed at allowing GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, to cut costs and boost productivity.
Although all three of the companies pay a base wage of about $19 an hour, Ford and Chrysler buy more of their parts from lower-cost outside suppliers than GM does.
On Friday, the UAW signaled that the talks had hit a snag when it canceled a Saturday meeting of plant-level leaders here.
The UAW said its 250-member National GM Council is now scheduled to meet on Wednesday, Nov. 6, in Chicago if the union reaches a tentative agreement in the next few days. The cancellation was viewed as a negative sign for a quick settlement because it buys significantly more time to craft a deal.
Meanwhile, pressure from local strikes in Indiana and Wisconsin mounted early Saturday as the number of workers idled by the walkouts exceeded 19,000.
By late in the evening, workers at seven plants were idled, including 2,750 strikers in Indianapolis and 4,800 in Janesville, Wis.
The Indianapolis plant feeds fenders, doors, hoods and other steel body panels to nine of GM's 11 North American light truck plants, including Janesville.
GM's Shreveport, La., compact pickup truck plant also shut down Friday, idling 2,400 workers, while GM's Linden, N.J., plant, which employs about 2,500 workers, was expected to run out of parts Friday night. Linden produces Chevrolet and GMC compact pickups and sport utility vehicles.
About 3,500 workers were idled at GM's Moraine, Ohio, compact sport utility vehicle plant Thursday night, while 2,250 workers were laid off at GM's Fort Wayne, Ind., full-size pickup truck assembly plant on Wednesday night.
In addition, 900 workers who build V-8 engines for trucks assembled in Janesville and Fort Wayne were idled on Friday.
Michael Ward, an auto analyst at Paine Webber, said the Janesville, Fort Wayne and Moraine shutdowns alone will cost GM $10 million a day in after-tax lost profits.
"We're looking at $10 million a day right now, and that could easily expand to $20 million by Monday," Ward said.
Full-size pickup truck plants in Flint and Pontiac, Mich., and Oshawa, Ontario, could run out of parts within the next several days, while a GM truck plant in Silao, Mexico, was believed to have a greater supply of parts on hand.
Layoffs from the UAW strikes were increasing as GM's U.S. car operations are still staggering from the effects of the three-week Canadian Auto Workers strike, which ended Oct. 23.
GM said it still had 18,958 workers idled by continuing shortages of Canadian-made parts at six car assembly plants, six engine and transmission plants and four metal stamping facilities. Lost profits associated with the Canadian walkout are estimated at more than $350 million.
General Motors Corp cut a deal to end a costly strike at an Indianapolis metal stamping plant on Saturday, about 14 hours after it announced a tentative national contract agreement with the United Auto Workers union.
The five-day Indianapolis strike had threatened to paralyze most of GM's North American light truck production by early next week. Along with a second, still-unresolved walkout at GM's Janesville, Wisconsin, truck plant, the dispute was responsible for the idling of more than 19,000 workers.
But the 2,750 Indianapolis strikers could be back on the job stamping out fenders, doors, hoods and other truck body parts by Sunday night following a ratification vote scheduled for Sunday morning, said Patrick Morrissey, a spokesman for GM's Metal Fabricating Division.
However, GM's full-size pickup truck plant in Pontiac, Michigan, may still shut down on Monday due to shortages of Indianapolis-made parts, joining four other idled truck plants and an crippled engine plant.
Ronald Gettelfinger, UAW regional director in Indianapolis, said the new local labor agreement, reached at about 6:15 p.m. EST (2315 GMT) on Saturday, was not influenced by the national GM-UAW labor accord, which covers 215,000 U.S. hourly workers.
The national contract defines wages, benefits, job security and other broad issues, while local pacts cover plant specific issues like work rules and staffing levels.
"We've got great negotiators at the top," Gettelfinger said. "This was local issues."
He declined to discuss the grievances that sparked the strike. They were believed to include demands for more jobs to cope with an increasing workload and protections for skilled trades workers.
UAW President Stephen Yokich, who announced the national pact at a 2 a.m. EST (0700 GMT) news conference, held out the threat of more local strikes to keep GM from dragging its feet in negotiations with its 123 locals.
"We can't tell you what's going to happen in the other locals," Yokich said. "I would suggest that the company work very hard and get their locals cleaned up."
President Bill Clinton applauded UAW-GM agreement on Saturday. "I am very hopeful that the tentative agreement will be ratified and that the outstanding local issues will quickly be resolved so that everyone can get back to work," he said.
About 4,800 workers in Janesville remain on strike, although UAW Local 95 officials said local talks intensified on Saturday. The plant, which builds GM's popular Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport-utility vehicles, is one of the automaker's most profitable factories.
Analysts estimate the UAW-related shutdowns will cost the carmaker up to $20 million a day in lost profits, on top of an estimated $350 million loss from a Canadian walkout that ended on Oct. 23.
The UAW-GM national agreement will be submitted to rank-and-file members for ratification after about 250 UAW leaders meet to consider the pact on Wednesday in Chicago. The deal was unanimously approved by the union's national GM bargaining council.
Details of the pact were not released on Saturday, but Gerald Knechtel, GM vice president of personnel, said it fits within the pattern that the UAW set at Ford Motor Co and Chrysler Corp
Both of those companies agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current hourly workforces and will give workers a $2,000 bonus in the first year of the contract, followed by 3 percent raises in the second and third years of the contract.
One union official said the pact maintains the 95 percent job guarantee but allows GM some flexibility to exit certain unprofitable businesses and to allow employment at some factories to fall below that threshold.
In a sign that contentious issues remain, company and union officials did not announce the pact in a joint news conference with the traditional handshakes and smiles. Instead, they made grim-faced separate statements to reporters gathered at GM's Detroit headquarters building.
"I think we said back in June that it would be a difficult negotiation, and I think we fulfilled that expectation," said a visibly tired GM Chairman Jack Smith. "Like any negotiation, you never get everything you want."
Federal officials Sunday confirmed 29 cases of bacterial poisoning linked to fresh apple juice as investigators tested for contamination in samples pulled from Western U.S. and Canadian store shelves.
Bob Howard of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta said the agency had confirmed that 29 children and young adults had been infected with a potentially fatal strain of the E. coli bacterium after drinking Odwalla Inc. fruit juice in California, Washington, Colorado and the Vancouver area of British Columbia.
At least 36 additional cases are suspected or under investigation, state, county and provincial officials said.
State and federal officials continued to test Odwalla juice samples over the weekend but said they had not found any evidence of contamination.
"We're going to have to wait a few days to know for sure whether the samples are negative or positive," Arthur Whitmore of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said. "It is quite possible we won't actually find anything, but we have a good selection of samples, including those from the company's library of samples."
Odwalla, a rapidly growing juice company based in Half Moon Bay, California, was able to provide samples from production runs of two weeks ago, when the first cases surfaced in the Seattle area.
Whitmore said he did not know of any cases in which illness set in after Oct. 23, although the disease can incubate for up to two weeks.
At least four children remained hospitalized because of complications caused by the E. coli O57:H7 bacterium, including a 2-year-old girl in critical condition in California. Tara Azizi was in critical condition "but improving slightly," Stephen Texeira of Children's Hospital in Oakland said.
Young children are most susceptible to the bacterium, which causes stomach cramps followed by bloody diarrhea. In severe cases the illness can lead to kidney failure, which is treated through dialysis but may cause brain damage and death.
The bacterium, which normally lives in the digestive system of cattle, can enter the food chain through fecal contamination, because of either improper slaughtering or contact with manure.
Health officials speculated that Odwalla may have used apples that had fallen onto the ground, although company officials say they do not use "ground apples" and all produce is thoroughly washed before processing at the company's Dinuba, California, plant.
Odwalla juices are not pasteurized. Heat processing kills bacteria but can also alter flavor.
The outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 is the biggest in the United States since 1993 when more than 500 people fell ill in the Pacific Northwest and three children died after eating tainted meat, mostly at Jack-In-The-Box hamburger restaurants.
The same strain of E. coli sickened 9,500 people and killed 11 in Japan last summer. No source was identified in that outbreak, though raw radish shoots were suspected.
The CDC's Howard said the agency recommended that people boil unpasteurized cider or juice.
Battling competition in its core long-distance phone business, a need to enter new markets and a looming management transition, AT&amp;T Corp. faces an even broader challenge in the proposed merger of British Telecommunications Plc and MCI Communications Inc., two of its biggest adversaries.
British Telecom announced Sunday it planned to acquire the remaining 80 percent of MCI it does not already own in a complicated cash and stock transaction that values MCI at more than $20 billion.
AT&amp;T responded to news of the huge cross-border deal by calling on U.S. and European regulators to condition approval of it on a further freeing of competition in British Telecom's home market in the United Kingdom, even as British Telecom argued that it was already among the world's most open.
The merger would bring together the aggressive marketing skills of MCI -- the No. 2 U.S. long distance provider behind AT&amp;T -- with the deep pockets of the former British phone monopoly to form Concert, a combined entity with unprecedented global reach.
Analysts said the merger increases British Telecom's and MCI's scope for global pooling of resources and strategy coordination and puts pressure on AT&amp;T to beef-up its international strategies even as it must contend with an array of distractions at home.
"AT&amp;T is the one with the most to lose," said Forrester Research industry analyst David Goodtree. "The company is in danger of becoming just another player," he said, noting how rivals large and small have begun to erode AT&amp;T's long-held dominance of the U.S. long-distance business.
The former U.S. phone monopoly has seen its share of the country's $75 billion long-distance market slip to under 55 percent from 60 percent two years ago.
"This deal really forces AT&amp;T to respond and unfold its strategy," said Berge Ayvazian, senior telecoms analyst with Yankee Group in Boston.
With British Telecom's financial backing, MCI is expected to step up its attack on the $90 billion local U.S. phone market, Ayvazian said. MCI already plows nearly $1 billion a year into the fiber optic networks that will allow its MCI Metro unit to supply local phone service in roughly half the United States.
AT&amp;T has been groping for a strategy to enter the U.S. market for local telephone services, even as another set of rivals, the regional Bell companies like Bell Atlantic/NYNEX Corp. and SBC/Pacific Telesis Group seek permission to enter the long-distance business.
"AT&amp;T must now find some counterpoint to the BT-MCI strategy by trying to open up and reveal its local plans," Ayvazian said.
"The company has become more and more isolated as the Bell companies prepare to enter the long-distance market and as AT&amp;T still relies on a go-it-alone strategy," agreed David Roddy, chief telecommunications economist at the Deloitte &amp; Touche Consulting Group.
The proposed merger of BT and MCI is just the latest in a succession of threats to AT&amp;T's status as a global telecommunications carrier and its leadership of the U.S. phone business.
In September, AT&amp;T shocked Wall Street by warning that its second-half earnings would be dampened by continuing pressures in its long-distance business and efforts to gear up to offer local phone service in most of the 50 states. AT&amp;T also said its near-term earnings were being hurt by investments in new online and wireless services.
The decline in its financial results comes on the heels of AT&amp;T's year-long split-up of the company into three separate pieces, a move widely praised as necessary but one which nonetheless appears to have been a major distraction to its management. AT&amp;T recently completed the spin-off of Lucent Technologies Inc., its former telecom equipment arm, and is planning to spin off its NCR computer operation in coming months.
The break-up of AT&amp;T  has heightened dependence on its imperiled long-distance phone revenues. Responding to mounting concerns about AT&amp;T Chairman Robert Allen's leadership, the company recently named printing industry executive John Walter as its new president and chief operating officer and Allen's eventual successor after an 18-month transition.
Wall Street securities analysts have questioned the choice of Walter, an outsider to the telecommunications industry, while simultaneously criticizing the delay in handing over responsibility to him. Even those who praise Walter's track record as chief executive at R.R. Donnelley -- where he successfully engineered a complex transformation of the old line catalog printer into marketer of digital printing services -- said Walter faces a daunting learning curve at AT&amp;T.
BT still controls the lion's share of the British telephone market, with its grip on local service still amounting to 90 percent. But recent deregulation of the local service market has allowed rivals, including AT&amp;T through its AT&amp;T U.K. operation, to begin competing on BT turf.
MCI Communications Corp said on Sunday its $20 billion merger with British Telecommunications Plc will give the combined company great strength in international calling, consulting and in U.S. local calling.
"Collectively we have the size and strength to compete with any telecommunications company in the world," MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine told Reuters in an interview.
Maine, also a director at the new combined firm Concert, said putting together MCI's Systemhouse with BT's Syntegra would give huge power in consulting and systems integration.  
"This is a scale game and this really positions us to compete with the likes of EDS (Electronic Data Systems Corp ) and Andersen (Consulting)...", Maine said.
Analysts agreed MCI had a lot to offer BT in consulting.
"BT is getting its lunch eaten in U.K systems intergration," said Danny Briere of consultantcy Telechoice.
Maine predicted the deal could help hasten the end of the creaking international settlements system, which restricts the carriers and rates used on most of the world's international call connections and which keeps calls expensive.  
"It positions us to take advantage what will probably be the coming collapse of the international correspondent relations market, which is the settlement system..." he said.
The system is under siege because of liberalization is opening up domestic markets in several key countries like Germany, and new carriers domestically will want to get into the international calling market too.
Analysts say that the more the international market opens up, the more calling rates for customers will fall.  
Maine said there is big money to be made in the $90 billion a year U.S. local market as well, partly through MCI Metro, MCI's business market local calling subsidiary.
"If you want to look at return on capital there is no better investment BT could make than investing in the local market where we have 46 percent EBITDA margins," Maine said.
EBITDA is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
"BT will invest through MCI into the local market and earn considerable returns on the capital, far more than I believe they could investing in their own market," Maine said.  
He also expected that MCI's aggressive management team would be a great asset to BT, particularly in the U.S. market.
Maine said that on top of all the business advantages there would be a great deal of money saved by cutting out overlaps and inefficiencies between the two companies.
"Financially we have the synergies...$2.5 billion dollars over the next five years," Maine said.  
Maine, who will be getting a board position at Concert, said that he was determined to make sure that investor relations (IR) efforts were kept up in the U.S. to avoid the shareholder base switching over too much to the U.K.
"I believe its partly a result of the fact that the sell-side analysts who tend to follow the company tend to be those in the larger company. When you lose the sell side analysts you lose the involvement of the institutional sales forces," Maine said.
Telechoice's Briere said that the new company would tighten up a lot of areas which didn't work in the existing 20 percent stakeholding partnership.
"Huge area will disappear now, where they had been duplicating effort," said Briere. He saw it as the right decision, and a brave one to make the partnership work.
"Now there will be no excuses," he said. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1610
British Telecommunications Plc stock and cash share offer is worth between $36 and $39.60 per MCI share at Friday's closing BT share price, MCI chief financial officer Doug Maine told Reuters.
The deal is an offer of 0.54 new American Depositary Shares (ADS) in the new combined group, named Concert, for every MCI share. Each Concert ADS is equivalent to one BT American Depositary Share and $6 cash.
BT ADS's closed at $55-1/2 in New York, giving a value of $30 per MCI share plus $6 cash per share before the effect of a buyback by BT which is part of the deal, Maine said.  
BT said Concert will make a buyback of up to 10 percent of its shares after the closing. The maximum buyback would increase the value of the deal to MCI shareholders to $39.60 per MCI share.
"The buyback is very important to us," Maine said, adding that it was designed to offset some of the skewed stock ownership patterns which often happen in a transnational merger.
Maine said that the 80 percent of MCI shares held by owners other than BT would translate into a holding of 33 percent in the combined Concert company.  
The terms value MCI at a total $25.2 billion before the effect of the buyback, but as BT already owns 20 percent it need only issue Concert stock and cash worth $20.1 billion.
The new Concert company will have 9.5 billion shares in issue, including 3.1 billion new shares issued for MCI.
Maine said the buyback would be available to all shareholders, and didn't expect problems with U.K. tax law.
British tax complexities have been an obstacle recently to some companies' planned distributions of cash to shareholders in Britain.
MCI shareholders will receive the full BT dividend for fiscal 1998 providing the merger closes before BT's year end of March 31 1998.  Maine said that U.S. shareholders would be as much as 25 percent better off from the dividend proposals.
"A dividend from a U.K. company is worth more to a U.S. taxpayer than a dividend from a U.S. company because of the way the ACT (advance corporation tax) works, and because in the U.K. you don't double tax dividends," Maine said.
BT said it is planning a 6.1 percent increase in U.K. dividends for fiscal 1997, but did not give the figures for American Depositary Share dividends.  
Each BT ADS is worth 10 ordinary BT shares, so the 19.85 pence U.K dividend for fiscal 1997 translates to 1.98 stg per ADS, translated into dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the record date in August 1997.
For fiscal 1996, BT paid $2.92 per ADS.  -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1610
British Telecom unveiled the largest merger in Britain's corporate history on Sunday, linking up with MCI Communications, the number two U.S. long-distance phone company, to create a $54 billion group.
Six months after alliance talks failed with BT's British rival Cable and Wireless, BT announced that its deal with MCI, to be called Concert Plc, would create one of the world's largest telecoms groups with 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
BT already owned 20 percent of MCI with which it has created the Concert joint venture, providing a whole range of communications services to customers in more than 50 nations.
"The merger combines the substantial financial resources and global position of BT with the growth momentum and market expertise of MCI, known for its success in the competitive U.S. long distance market," BT said in a statement.
Under the deal, which has yet to be agreed by regulatory authorities on either side of the Atlantic, shareholders in MCI would receive up to $3.8 billion in cash as well as 0.54 new Concert American Depositary Shares for every MCI share held.
Under the proposed deal, BT is paying its shareholders a special dividend bonanza of 35 pence a per share, worth an estimated two billion pounds.
BT did not immediately give figures for the total value of the proposed deal, details of which started leaking into the markets late on Friday.
Analysts expect the deal to be worth about $22 billion.
The new telecoms giant, incorporated in Britain, would have headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the BT and MCI brand names.
BT has been looking for a major acquisition since its proposed merger with British rival Cable and Wireless failed in May. BT had been keen to forge that deal because it would have given it access to the lucrative Asian telecoms market -- the world's fastest growing market.
Analysts now expect BT and MCI to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp, the world's largest telecoms group. The company said in a statement that the proposed deal would create a world leading communications power house with annual cash flow of about 7.5 billion pounds.
BT expects the merger would yield savings from combining overlapping services of 1.5 billion pounds ($2.46 billion) over the first five years and 500 million pounds per year before tax after that.
BT also forecast dividends of 19.85 pence per share for the year to March 31, 1997 -- a rise of six percent over last year -- excluding the 35p per share special dividend.
BT, which will release full year results on November 14, has declared a half year dividend of 7.90 pence payable in November, six percent more than in the same period last year.
The deal is believed to be the second largest ever involving a U.S. company -- topped only by the 1989 buyout of RJR Nabisco by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co.
Analysts said a combined company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry, where MCI's major competitors are AT&amp;T Corp and Sprint.
Current market leader AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a fiancially muscular new enlarged rival, said on Friday it was confident any MCI/BT deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government.
One potential problem is a media joint venture between MCI and Robert Murdoch's News Corp. BT would end up with MCI's 13 percent non-voting stake in News Corp and this could cause regulatory difficulties in Britain, analysts say. ($1=.6096 Pound)
British Telecom (BT) made corporate history on Sunday by unveiling a $20 billion merger with America's MCI Communications in a coup that ensures it a leading position in the world's biggest telecoms market.
The giant merger with MCI, in which BT already has a 20 percent stake, is to be called Concert Plc and marks a vital step in BT's plans to expand overseas as world markets begin to liberalise, following in the steps of America and Britain.
By joining forces with the second-largest U.S. long-distance carrier, BT -- which already has six joint ventures in the top six European markets worth $135 billion -- has placed itself well to tap into the corporate market for long-distance calls, data and mobile services.
BT, which sweetened the alliance for its own 2.4 million shareholders with a 2.2 billion pound ($3.6 billion) special dividend, has been angling to get a foothold in the $200 billion U.S. telecoms market, where it sees tremedous growth prospects.
Concert, a $54 billion group with annual revenues of over 25 billion pounds, will have a significant market share in the world's two most competitive markets as well as being well-placed to gain access to leading-edge technology.
MCI, which has the biggest Internet backbone in the U.S. -- carrying 40 percent of worldwide traffic -- is estimated to have a 20-22 percent share of the U.S. long-distance telephone market and has been dubbed by newspapers "one of the most admired technology and marketing companies in the U.S.".
The MCI deal, which will challenge rival alliances led by U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T and Deutsche Telekom, could trigger a fresh round of deal-making between local telecoms alliances ahead of the deregulation of European telecoms markets in 1998.
But BT also has its sights on Asia Pacific markets, the world's fastest growing market, which was worth about $125 billion in 1996. With the MCI deal in the bag, BT said it hoped to be better able to address that market.
Since its plans were foiled six months ago to merge with British rival Cable and Wireless and link up with its "global digital highway" and telecoms businesses in Hong Kong, Japan and Australia, BT has been struggling to find an alternative route into Asia.
Chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield denied that the deal with MCI, which comes without any real presence in Asia-Pacific, was the second best. "It's not the second best -- it's the first best choice," he insisted.
Analysts now expect the enlarged BT/MCI group to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp, the world's largest telecoms group.
"(BT) have made no secret of their ambitions in Asia," said Laurence Heyworth, telecoms analyst at Robert Fleming Securities. "The problem is...NTT is being courted by everybody in terms of international alliances. But as a consequence of this merger, Concert has a stronger potential," he added.
Bonfield said that although he would like to talk to NTT, the company would probably want to devote attention to deregulating its home market before seeking any deals.
BT's deal with MCI depends on both American and British regulatory approval. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission and has to approve foreign ownership of every deal involving more than 25 percent of a company.
However, it has allowed the French and German carriers -- France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom -- to take stakes in Sprint, America's third-largest long-distance provider, and form Global One.  ($1=.6096 Pound)  REUTER
British Telecom (BT) made corporate history on Sunday by unveiling a $20 billion merger with America's MCI Communications in a coup that ensures it a leading position in the world's biggest telecoms market.
The giant merger with MCI, in which BT already has a 20 percent stake, is to be called Concert Plc and marks a vital step in BT's plans to expand overseas as world markets begin liberalise, following in the steps of America and Britain.
British Telecom unveiled the largest transatlantic deal in history on Sunday, linking up with America's MCI Corp in a $20 billion merger that catapults it into second place in the world's international telecoms market.
The deal with MCI -- the number two U.S. long-distance phone company after U.S. telecoms giant AT &amp; T Corp -- creates a $54 billion group to be called Concert Plc, which will have 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.  
"Tomorrow begins a new era for all of us as we go forward in Concert and harmony," Gerald Taylor, MCI's president and chief operating officer told a news conference as journalists were plied with champagne.
In an attempt to keep one step ahead of rivals as world telecom markets are liberalised, BT is taking on a partner with a powerful position in the world's biggest telecoms market, generating about 40 percent of the world's long-distance calls.  
Under the deal, which has yet to win regulatory approval on both sides of the Atlantic, MCI shareholders would receive up to 2.3 billion pounds cash and new Concert American Depositary Shares. For each MCI share, investors will get 5.4 new BT shares and $6.0 cash, valuing MCI shares in the mid $30 each.
BT is also paying its 2.4 million shareholders a special dividend bonanza of 2.2 billion pounds ($3.6 billion), or 35p per share, which is not dependent on any completed merger.
The company also said it would ask shareholders to approve plans for its first ever share buy-back at an extraordinary meeting to approve the MCI deal.  
BT, whose motto "It's good to talk" appears to have paid off since alliance talks failed with British rival Cable and Wireless six months ago, already owns 20 percent of MCI.
Sir Peter Bonfield, BT's chief executive, denied that the deal with MCI was the second best choice for BT, which has been keen to get access to the world's fastest growing telecoms market -- Asia -- via Cable and Wireless' 57.5 percent stake in highly profitable Hong Kong Telecommunications.
"It's not second best, it's first best," he told the news conference.  
BT already has a joint venture with MCI called Concert, which provides a whole range of communications services to customers in more than 50 nations. MCI also carries 40 percent of the worldwide traffic on the Internet.
"The merger combines the substantial financial resources and global position of BT with the growth momentum and market expertise of MCI, known for its success in the competitive U.S. long distance market," BT said in a statement.  
The new telecoms giant, which will have annual cash flow of about 7.5 billion pounds, will be incorporated in Britain with headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the BT and MCI brand names in Britain and America.
BT expects the merger, after an initial five percent earnings dilution, to yield savings from combining overlapping services of 1.5 billion pounds ($2.46 billion) over the first five years and 500 million pounds pre-tax annually after that.
BT also forecast dividends of 19.85 pence per share for the year to March 31, 1997 -- a rise of six percent over last year -- excluding the 35p per share special dividend.  
BT, which will release full year results on November 14, has declared a half year dividend of 7.90 pence payable in November, six percent more than in the same period last year.
The deal is believed to be the second largest ever involving a U.S. company -- topped only by the 1989 buyout of RJR Nabisco by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co.
Analysts said a combined company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry, where MCI's major competitors are AT&amp;T Corp and Sprint.
Current market leader AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a financially muscular new enlarged rival, said on Friday it was confident any MCI/BT deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government. ($1=.6096 Pound)
British Telecom Sunday formally announced its agreement to acquire the rest of U.S. long distance phone company MCI Communications, creating a worldwide telecommunications powerhouse.
The merged company, to be called Concert Plc, creates the world's second-largest telecommunications group, behind Japan's NTT, and presents a powerful rival to U.S. leader AT&amp;T.
British Telecom already owned 20 percent of Washington,D.C.-based MCI, the No. 2 U.S. long telecommunications company. The deal values all of MCI at a total $25.2 billion, but as British Telecom already owns 20 percent, it will issue Concert stock and cash worth $20.1 billion for the 80 percent it does not own.
The deal would be the largest between a British and American company.
Analysts said a combined company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry, where MCI's major competitors are AT&amp;T and Sprint. AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a financially muscular enlarged rival, said Friday it was confident any MCI/British Telecom deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government.
Concert Plc would be one of the world's largest telecommunications companies, with 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
"The complementary strengths and skills of BT and MCI will enable Concert to take full advantage of the great opportunities provided by the forthcoming liberalisation of the telecommunications market in the U.S. and Europe," said Sir Iain Vallance, British Telecom's chairman.
"This is an industry with a voracious appetite for capital," Gerald Taylor, MCI president and chief operating officer, told a news conference in London. "We have been living and working together for nearly three years ... we know our strengths and weaknesses ... I believe we will be a winning team."
MCI and British Telecom were to hold another news conference at 2 p.m. EST in New York.
Under the terms of the agreement, which has yet to be approved by regulatory authorities on either side of the Atlantic, MCI shareholders would receive 0.54 new American Depositary Shares in the new combined group for every MCI share. Each Concert ADS is equivalent to one British Telecom American Depositary Share and $6 cash.
British Telecom's ADSs closed at $55.50 in New York on Friday, giving a value of $30 per MCI share, plus $6 in cash per share before the effect of a buyback by British Telecom that is part of the deal, MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine told Reuters.
British Telecom said Concert will buy back up to 10 percent of its shares after the deal closes. The maximum buyback would increase the value of the deal to MCI shareholders to $39.60 per MCI share. MCI's stock closed Friday at $30.25 on Nasdaq.
The new company, incorporated in Britain, would have headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the British Telecom and MCI brand names.
British Telecom has been looking for a major acquisition since its proposed merger with British rival Cable and Wireless failed in May. It had been keen to forge that deal because it would have given it access to the lucrative Asian telecoms market -- the world's fastest-growing market.
Analysts now expect British Telecom and MCI to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.
One potential problem is a media joint venture between MCI and Robert Murdoch's News Corp. British Telecom would end up with MCI's 13 percent non-voting stake in News Corp, and this could cause regulatory difficulties in Britain, analysts say.
The $22 billion takeover of MCI Communications Corp marks a spectacular end to Sir Peter Bonfield's first year as chief executive of British Telecommunications Plc.
BT and MCI, the second largest U.S. long-distance phone company, confirmed on Sunday that BT would buy the 80 percent of MCI it does not own.
The deal, if completed, is a major coup for the former computer industry executive who took the helm at BT last January when the company split the roles of chairman and chief executive. Sir Iain Vallance, who had been combining the two roles since 1987, became BT chairman.
Bonfield's appointment was cheered by City commentators when it was announced last November.
The influential Financial Times newspaper described it as "one of the most positive events in the group's history".
The newspaper said the appointment marked "a turning point in BT's transition from public sector utility to competitive services group".
Bonfield, 52, had built a reputation for boosting revenue, curbing costs and international expansion during his 10 years in charge of ICL, the British computer company owned by Japan's Fujitsu Ltd.
"His wide international experience, his dedication to quality management and his in-depth knowledge of the computing services industry will be of particular relevance to BT, as we continue our global expansion," Vallance said when Bonfield moved to BT.
Within a few months of his arrival BT was in talks with British rival Cable &amp; Wireless about a merger that would have created a global telecommunications powerhouse.
Those talks ended unsuccessfully in May. But any MCI/BT deal would be bigger than that one that got away.
Bonfield has said he wants BT to be one of the most successful global telecoms companies 20 or 30 years from now. He believes BT's network of continental partners built up in recent years will allow it to become a true pan-European operator.
He has also targeted Asia-Pacific as a region where BT needs to expand, hence the attempt to do a deal with Cable and Wireless, which is very strong there.
Analysts say the critical mass from an MCI deal would provide the power to drive international expansion.
Bonfield also believes BT must become more responsive to its market. One of MCI's strengths is its reputation as an aggressive and fast-moving company.
He grew up in the small town of Hitchin, north of London, where he went to a local state school. He graduated in engineering from Loughborough University in the English Midlands in 1966.
He began his career with Texas Instruments, working in the field of semiconductors and computers in Europe, the Far East and the United States. He became a divisional director of Texas based in the U.S. before joining ICL in the early 1980s.
He became ICL managing director in 1984 and its chief executive and chairman the following year.
Bonfield, a trim, bearded individual, has an informal manner and a reputation for getting on well with colleagues. A married man, he lists his hobbies as sailing, jogging and music.
Investors, who last week helped drive the Toronto Stock Exchange to its 50th record close this year, are unlikely to cool on Canadian stocks any time soon, attracted by Canada's improving economic fundamentals.
"Canada really has begun to address its deficit problems with rather Calvinistic virtue and I think this is going to help that market and also tend to focus other investors on the opportunities in Canada," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. Inc. in New York.
Toronto's key 300 Composite Index set its 50th record high close last Thursday, the most in a single year since Canada's largest stock exchange began tracking such figures. The previous record was 45 record closes in 1987.
The 300 index has risen almost 19 percent this year.
After the stock market crash of Oct. 19, 1987, Toronto posted no record closes from 1988 through 1992.
But analysts said Toronto's latest bull run will likely extend to mid-1997.
"I don't think the run in the Canadian market is over by any means," said Metz.
"There's such a rosy view out there on Canada," said HSBC James Capel Canada strategist Bob Boaz.
"Inflation is low. The federal deficits are coming down, especially in relation to GDP (gross domestic product). Current account surpluses are happening. The political situation (Quebec separatism) has faded away and that has buoyed the Canadian dollar," Boaz said.
Canada's inflation rate is about 1.4 percent, while the federal government has forecast its yearly borrowing requirements will drop to zero in 1998/99 from C$28.6 billion ($21.4 billion) in 1995/96.
Booming exports have pushed Canada's current account to a surplus due for the first time since 1984.
Political uncertainty has also waned after last year's narrow loss by separatists in a referendum on independence for the French-speaking province of Quebec.
On Friday, Canada's dollar reached the 75 U.S. cent mark for the first time in a year.
"I think Canada's in a different situation" than in 1987, Metz said. "We're on the early stages of what I would call a boomlet worldwide, which is going to result in I think strengthening industrial and commodity prices, which I think are going to be very bullish for Canada."
"I'm still tremendously bullish on stocks," said Boaz, who does not rule out the index hitting 6500 points by mid-1997.
The 300 index closed at 5,591.31 on Friday, down 7.51 points.
China's economic growth is likely to accelerate in 1997 as Beijing pumps up its economy before a crucial Communist Party congress that may tackle nagging reform problems, state media said on Sunday.
Political factors were likely to be a significant factor in a possible renewed boom next year in one of the world's fastest growing economies, the China Daily Business Weekly quoted Xu Hongyuan of the State Information Centre as saying.
However, Xu also warned that the higher growth could see the spin-off of a renewed burst of inflation and warned of rising joblessness, giving one of the most pessimistic unemployment forecasts to be published openly in China.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1997 could reach 8,178 billion yuan ($985.3 billion), growing by 10.5 percent compared with an anticipated 9.6-9.7 percent increase this year, the newspaper quoted Xu as saying.
GDP grew by 10.2 percent in 1995 and Beijing's communist rulers have been trying to cool the rate slightly amid signs the economy was threatening to overheat. China has set a goal of eight percent average growth for the 1996-2000 Ninth Five-Year Plan.
Xu linked his higher growth forecast to the five-yearly Communist Party congress, set for late in 1997, which he said was expected to take some difficult decisions to eradicate the low economic efficiency and operational losses plaguing thousands of lumbering state enterprises.
"These political factors, if the government makes use of them smoothly, will provide strong backing to national economic performance in 1997," the newspaper said, quoting Xu.
Diplomats and western economists have said Beijing may try to revive an economic boom in 1997 in the run-up to the party congress as part of a push to bolster the standing of the current leadership before a meeting when personnel reshuffles are a key issue.
Xu forecast retail price inflation to speed up slightly in 1997 to about eight percent from an expected seven percent this year. Inflation was 14.8 percent last year, down from a communist-era high of 21.7 percent in 1994.
Official media have been rife with speculation that China may again trim interest rates after two cuts already this year but central bank officials insist Beijing has no plans to do anything more than "appropriately" adjust a three-year-old tight monetary policy.
Xu said foreign trade was expected to make a strong recovery after exports slumped in the first few months of this year, especially as the government completes repayment of billions of dollars of export rebates to exporters.
He forecast exports to reach $171.5 billion in 1997, up 14.1 percent from 1996.
Xu urged a further cut in import tariffs next year, a move that Beijing has promised and which could lubricate China's bid to gain entry to the World Trade Organisation.
However, Xu forecast a sharp increase in unemployment.
In 1997, the number of people out of work in the urban area could be as many as eight million, including workers left idle because of suspension of factory production, he said.
The urban jobless rate could reach eight percent next year if both surplus workers at factories and registered unemployed were included, Xu said.
China's official registered urban jobless rate was 2.98 percent at the end of September.
Zero tax and limited regulation are luring billions of dollars into offshore mutual funds, spurring a growth industry in famed tax-free locations such as the Cayman Islands, according to a mutual fund legal expert.
"I think every indication is that the offshore part of the mutual fund industry will grow. In the offshore jurisdiction you have no taxation and a more appropriate level of regulation as a rule of thumb," said Anthony Travers, senior partner at Maples and Calder in Hong Kong.
Anecdotal evidence suggests these advantages have drawn nearly US$900 billion into offshore mutual funds so far out of an entire industry sometimes valued at US$5 trillion, he said.
A lack of professional infrastructure is often a compelling disincentive to authorising funds in countries offering the greatest returns, while high taxation levels deter mutual funds from setting up in promising developed markets, he said on Friday.
The alternative is to authorise the fund in an offshore region, avoiding tax while reaching into some of the world's most rewarding investment regions.
There are, however, drawbacks.
"If you go offshore and you invest into the onshore jurisdiction from your mutual funds, you have things like withholding tax and tax treatments that may be imposed on your profits, and marketing is very much an issue," Travers said.
Certain double tax treaty networks can allow investors to avoid some onshore tax requirements, but these treaties vary from country to country, as do marketing restrictions, he said. For example, offshore mutual funds are prevented from marketing to more than 100 investors in the United States, while the United Kingdom prohibits marketing of offshore retail mutual funds unless they are based in designated jurisdictions, such as Bermuda, Jersey and Guernsey.
It is possible to market a Cayman Islands-registered mutual fund in the United Kingdom, but only as a private placement and not as a retail fund, Travers said.
Despite their obvious benefits, Travers warned that investing in offshore mutual funds is not for everyone.
The lack of regulation gives greater flexibility in the establishment and administration of mutual funds but it also provides little recourse for unsophisticated retail investors, which partly explains why these funds cannot be marketed freely in the United States or the United Kingdom.
"You are essentially talking about mutual funds which are established by institutions for other institutions or very high net worth and sophisticated individuals, in which case it is felt additional layers of regulation are not appropriate or necessary," he said.
It is possible to market offshore retail funds in Europe, but funds must meet the requirements of the "Undertakings of Collective Investment and Transfer of Securities" (UCITS) directive, which ensures certain standards are met.
"They are supposed to be able to sell UCITS cross-border in Europe but in fact the European Union is still something of a myth when it comes to cross-border marketing," Travers said.
"And you find in these jurisdictions commensurately higher fees. Three to six basis points on net asset value is the price you pay to market to the retail sector," he said.
Japan's financial industry is gradually recovering from the bad-debt hangover left by the economic "bubble" years, but the pain lingers on for smaller banks and loan institutions.
Analysts say the industry has got over the worst of the bad loan mess after vigorous efforts by the government and major banks over the past year to tackle the problem. Any further serious damage to the system is therefore unlikely, they say.
But the picture is darker for small institutions that lack the financial might of the big banks but were similarly saddled with soured loans from the late 1980s lending boom.
Analysts say it will take years to restore confidence in the banking sector given the lingering problems and exposure to the troubled real estate and construction industries.
The nervousness was highlighted last month by the collapse of financing firm Nichiei Finance Co Ltd with huge debt liabilities, and revelations of losses at a regional bank because of suspected misuse of funds by an ex-employee.
Both these incidents jolted financial markets. In the case of Biwako Bank, the markets were unsettled by vague rumours of dire trouble before the bank said it had lost money due to the suspected misappropration but remained in sound health.
A new restructuring programme unveiled two weeks ago by Tobishima Corp, a contractor and engineering company, also fuelled concerns that banks would face new burdens as ailing firms seek further support while trying to reshape themselves.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Center, said the banks are dealing with the problem in stages -- first with their own bad loans, then the problems of affiliated firms and, finally, the issue of other debtors.
"Banks are trying to dispose of problem loans to independent non-banks after mostly completing write-offs of debt held by their non-bank affiliates," he said.
Failures of troubled non-banks are already anticipated and it may take one or two years for the big banks to fully recover from the mess, he said.
Non-banks are financial firms which do not take deposits but rely mostly on loans from banks and other deposit-taking bodies such as agricultural credit cooperatives.
Like the "jusen" mortgage firms, which were wound up this year, many non-banks are in trouble. They lent to golf-course and resort companies that joined hands with developers looking for easy profits during the free-wheeling "bubble" years.
When asset prices began to plunge in the early 1990s, many firms which had relied on borrowed funds for investments were unable to repay the money, causing a ripple effect of bad debt.
The Finance Ministry said this week that outstanding loans by Japan's 249 non-banks fell 4.4 percent to 50.74 trillion yen ($449 billion) at the end of March from a year earlier.
Analysts said Nichiei's main creditors -- Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank (DKB), Asahi Bank and the Bank of Yokohama -- are expected to give up their claims after the company filed for restructuring under court guidance, a category of business failure under Japan's bankruptcy laws.
As of March, DKB had 56 billion yen ($495 million) ($495 million) in loans to Nichiei Finance, while Asahi had 32 billion yen ($283 million) and Bank of Yokohama 20 billion yen ($176 million) in loans, they said.
James Fiorillo, a ING Baring Securities (Japan) analyst, said the amount these three write off for Nichiei will only be about a fifth of their total disposals this fiscal year.
DKB has predicted an operating profit for 1996/97 to next March of about 320 billion yen ($2.83 billion) and current profit, a form of pre-tax profit including non-operating activities, of 40 billion yen ($353 million). This suggests DKB may use the difference -- 280 billion yen ($2.47 billion) -- to write off problem loans.
Japan's 20 big banks are already planning to dispose of 3.5 trillion yen ($30.9 billion) to 4.0 trillion yen ($35.3 billion) of problem loans in 1996/97 after writing off nearly 11 trillion yen ($97.3 billion) in 1995/96, analysts estimated.
It will, however, take some time for creditor banks to solve the problem of the non-banks including Nichiboshin Ltd and Apollo Leasing Co Ltd.
The search for a solution is complicated by the fact that the non-banks are part of a web of lending, having borrowed from more than 100 creditors including financially weak agricultural credit unions.
"People say that the problem is that losses (stemming from the non-bank liquidation) may break the back of weak agricultural financial institutions," one analyst said. ($1=113 yen)
British Telecom and MCI Communications Sunday formally announced their agreement for the British company to acquire the rest of MCI in a deal worth more than $20 billion that will create a worldwide telecommunications powerhouse.
The merged company, to be called Concert Plc, creates the world's second-largest telecommunications group, behind Japan's NTT, and presents a powerful rival to U.S. leader AT&amp;T.
British Telecom already owned 20 percent of Washington,D.C.-based MCI, the No. 2 U.S. long telecommunications company. The deal values all of MCI at a total $25.2 billion, but as British Telecom already owns 20 percent, it will issue Concert stock and cash worth $20.1 billion for the 80 percent it does not own.
The deal would be the largest between a British and American company.
"This is not a pebble we're throwing onto a quiet pool. It is a big rock, and it's going to make a big splash," Sir Iain Vallance, chairman of British Telecommunications Plc, told a news conference.
"Mergers don't always work, but this one will," Vallance added.
Industry analysts said a combined company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry, where MCI's major competitors are AT&amp;T and Sprint. AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a financially muscular enlarged rival, said Friday it was confident any MCI/British Telecom deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government.
MCI Chief Executive Bert Roberts said he was confident the combination with British Telecom would win the approval of federal regulators, noting that "the U.K. is the most competitive telecommunications market in the world."
He added that the deal would result in lower expenditures for both companies because "costs will be reduced by building networks once, not twice."
In an attempt to keep one step ahead of rivals as world telecoms markets are liberalised, British Telecom is taking on a partner with a powerful position in the world's biggest telecommunications market, generating about 40 percent of the world's long-distance calls.
Concert Plc would be one of the world's largest telecommunications companies, with 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
"The complementary strengths and skills of BT and MCI will enable Concert to take full advantage of the great opportunities provided by the forthcoming liberalisation of the telecommunications market in the U.S. and Europe," said Vallance.
"This is an industry with a voracious appetite for capital," Gerald Taylor, MCI president and chief operating officer, told an earlier news conference in London. "We have been living and working together for nearly three years ... we know our strengths and weaknesses ... I believe we will be a winning team."
Under the terms of the agreement, which has yet to be approved by regulatory authorities on either side of the Atlantic, MCI shareholders would receive 0.54 new American Depositary Shares in the new combined group for every MCI share. Each Concert ADS is equivalent to one British Telecom American Depositary Share and $6 cash.
British Telecom's ADSs closed at $55.50 in New York on Friday, giving a value of $30 per MCI share, plus $6 in cash per share before the effect of a buyback by British Telecom that is part of the deal, MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine told Reuters.
British Telecom said Concert will buy back up to 10 percent of its shares after the deal closes. The maximum buyback would increase the value of the deal to MCI shareholders to $39.60 per MCI share. MCI's stock closed Friday at $30.25 on Nasdaq.
The new company, incorporated in Britain, would have headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the British Telecom and MCI brand names.
British Telecom has been looking for a major acquisition since its proposed merger with British rival Cable and Wireless failed in May. It had been keen to forge that deal because it would have given it access to the lucrative Asian telecoms market -- the world's fastest-growing market.
Analysts now expect British Telecom and MCI to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.
One potential problem is a media joint venture between MCI and Robert Murdoch's News Corp. British Telecom would end up with MCI's 13 percent non-voting stake in News Corp, and this could cause regulatory difficulties in Britain, analysts say.
Workers at a key General Motors Corp. metal stamping plant in Indianapolis began returning to work on Sunday after ratifying a deal to end a five-day strike that threatened to paralyze most of the automaker's light truck production.
But a similar settlement eluded negotiators at GM's Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant, where a strike over local issues by 4,800 workers entered its sixth day.
Janesville, which builds GM's popular Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport/utility vehicles, is one of the automaker's most profitable factories.
The deal for 2,750 workers in Indianapolis, which came hours after GM and the UAW announced a tentative agrement for a new national labor contract early Saturday morning, calls for the hiring of 200 new workers at the plant.
It also leaves seniority rules for skilled trades workers intact and provides thousands of dollars in back pay for workers to settle grievances.
"I regret we did have to call a strike here," said UAW regional director Ron Gettlefinger in Indianapolis. "I'm hoping other General Motors plants I'm responsible for will heed the seriousness of local agreements."
The Indianapolis strike shut off shipments of fenders, doors, hoods and oher steel body panels to nine of GM's North American light truck plants. By the weekend, parts shortages due to the strike had caused GM to shut down truck plants in Fort Wayne, Ind., Shreveport, La., Moraine, Ohio and Linden, N.J.
Including the strikers at Janesville and Indianapolis, the UAW walkouts had idled over 19,000 workers, in addition to 18,858 GM workers still on layoff because of lingering parts shortages from a three-week Canadian Auto Workers strike that ended Oct. 23.
UAW officials said stamping operations would resume Sunday night, with the plant back to full production by Monday, but that may not prove soon enough to keep other plants from running out of parts, including GM's full-size pickup truck plant in Pontiac, Mich., which employs nearly 6,000 people.
Other threatened plants that receive parts from Indianapolis are located in Flint, Mich., Oshawa, Ontario and Silao, Mexico.
On Saturday, UAW President Stephen Yokich put GM on notice that some of the automaker's GM's 123 other locals may go on strike over lack of progress in local negotiations.
A clearer picture of the UAW-GM national agreement, which covers some 215,000 U.S. hourly workers, began to emerge Sunday. The contract meets the pattern set by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. on most major issues, including a guarantee that GM will maintain jobs for 95 percent of its current hourly work force.
But the pact contains exceptions that will allow GM to sell some unprofitable parts plants, including a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich.
On economics, the pact gives wokers a $2,000 bonus in the first year of the contract, followed by 3 percent raises in the second and third years of the contract. It also provides generous gains in pension benefits, including the elimination of a cap on outside earnings for retirees, which is viewed as a major incentive for older workers to leave the company.
Like Ford and Chrysler, GM will be able to pay workers in new auto parts businesses that it enters a lower wage than the standard $19 an hour paid by the Big Three.
GM has been trying to shed parts businesses as it tries to catch up to Chrysler's and Ford's efficiency levels. But analysts say the pact could slow GM's progress in trying to shrink its work force through attrition.
"GM is not going to get the competitive lift from labor in this contract," said Eugene Jennings, a retired Michigan State University professor of management who is close to Detroit's Big Three automakers. "They have to find  enough efficiencies to support excess labor."
MCI Communications Corp said on Sunday its $20 billion merger with British Telecommunications Plc will give the combined company great strength in international calling, consulting and in U.S. local calling.
"Collectively we have the size and strength to compete with any telecommunications company in the world," MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine told Reuters in an interview.
Maine, also a director at the new combined firm Concert, said putting together MCI's Systemhouse with BT's Syntegra would give huge power in consulting and systems integration.
"This is a scale game and this really positions us to compete with the likes of EDS (Electronic Data Systems Corp) and Andersen (Consulting)," Maine said.
Analysts agreed MCI had a lot to offer BT in consulting.
"BT is getting its lunch eaten in U.K systems integration," said Danny Briere of consultancy Telechoice.
Maine predicted the deal could help hasten the end of the creaking international settlements system, which restricts the carriers and rates used on most of the world's international call connections and which keeps calls expensive.
"It positions us to take advantage what will probably be the coming collapse of the international correspondent relations market, which is the settlement system," he said.
The system is under siege because liberalisation is opening up domestic markets in several key countries like Germany, and new carriers domestically will want to get into the international calling market too.
Analysts say that as the international market opens up, calling rates for customers will fall.
Maine said there is big money to be made in the $90 billion a year U.S. local market as well, partly through MCI Metro, MCI's business market local calling subsidiary.
"If you want to look at return on capital there is no better investment BT could make than investing in the local market where we have 46 percent EBITDA margins," Maine said.
EBITDA is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
"BT will invest through MCI into the local market and earn considerable returns on the capital, far more than I believe they could investing in their own market," Maine said.
He also expected that MCI's aggressive management team would be a great asset to BT, particularly in the U.S. market.
Maine said that on top of all the business advantages there would be a great deal of money saved by cutting out overlaps and inefficiencies between the two companies.
"Financially we have the synergies...$2.5 billion dollars over the next five years," Maine said.
Maine, who will be getting a board position at Concert, said that he was determined to make sure that investor relations (IR) efforts were kept up in the United States to avoid the shareholder base switching over too much to Britain.
"I believe its partly a result of the fact that the sell-side analysts who tend to follow the company tend to be those in the larger company. When you lose the sell side analysts you lose the involvement of the institutional sales forces," Maine said.
Telechoice's Briere said that the new company would tighten up a lot of areas which didn't work in the existing 20 percent stakeholding partnership.
"Huge areas will disappear now, where they had been duplicating effort," said Briere. He saw it as the right decision, and a brave one to make the partnership work.
"Now there will be no excuses," he said.
British Telecom unveiled the largest transatlantic deal in history on Sunday, linking up with America's MCI Corp in a $20 billion merger that catapults it into second place in the world's international telecoms market.
The deal with MCI -- the number two U.S. long-distance phone company after U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T Corp -- creates a $54 billion group to be called Concert Plc, which will have 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
"Tomorrow begins a new era for all of us as we go forward in Concert and harmony," Gerald Taylor, MCI's president and chief operating officer told a news conference.
In an attempt to keep one step ahead of rivals as world telecoms markets are liberalised, BT is taking on a partner with a powerful position in the world's biggest telecoms market, generating about 40 percent of the world's long-distance calls.
Under the deal, which has yet to win regulatory approval on both sides of the Atlantic, MCI shareholders would receive up to 2.3 billion pounds ($3.77 billion) cash and new Concert American Depositary Shares. For each MCI share, investors will get 5.4 new BT shares and $6.0 cash, valuing MCI shares in the mid $30 each.
BT is also paying its 2.4 million shareholders a special dividend bonanza of 2.2 billion pounds, or 35 pence per share, which is not dependent on any completed merger.
The company also said it would ask shareholders to approve plans for its first ever share buy-back at an extraordinary meeting to approve the MCI deal.
BT, whose motto "It's good to talk" appears to have paid off since alliance talks failed with British rival Cable and Wireless six months ago, already owns 20 percent of MCI.
Sir Peter Bonfield, BT's chief executive, denied that the deal with MCI was the second best choice for BT, which has been keen to get access to the world's fastest growing telecoms market -- Asia -- via Cable and Wireless's 57.5 percent stake in the highly-profitable Hong Kong Telecommunications.
"It's not second best, it's first best," he told the news conference.
BT already has a joint venture with MCI called Concert, which provides a whole range of communications services to customers in more than 50 nations. MCI also carries 40 percent of the worldwide traffic on the Internet.
"The merger combines the substantial financial resources and global position of BT with the growth momentum and market expertise of MCI, known for its success in the competitive U.S. long distance market," BT said in a statement.
The new telecoms giant, which will have annual cash flow of about 7.5 billion pounds, will be incorporated in Britain with headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the BT and MCI brand names in Britain and America.
BT expects the merger, after an initial five percent earnings dilution, to yield savings from combining overlapping services of 1.5 billion pounds over the first five years and 500 million pounds pre-tax annually after that.
BT also forecast dividends of 19.85 pence per share for the year to March 31, 1997 -- a rise of six percent over last year -- excluding the 35 pence per share special dividend.
BT, which will release full year results on November 14, has declared a half-year dividend of 7.90 pence payable in November, six percent more than in the same period last year.
The deal is believed to be the second largest ever involving a U.S. company -- topped only by the 1989 buyout of RJR Nabisco by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co.
Analysts said a combined company would be a good fit in the ultra-competitive U.S. long-distance phone industry, where MCI's major competitors are AT&amp;T Corp and Sprint.
Current market leader AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a financially muscular new enlarged rival, said on Friday it was confident any MCI/BT deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government. ($1=.6096 Pound)
Britain's Invesco Plc Monday agreed to merge with Houston-based mutual fund company AIM Management Group Inc. in a deal valued at $1.6 billion, creating one of the world's largest investment management businesses.
The deal is the largest in U.S. fund history, industry experts said.
The combined group will be called Amvesco Plc and have around $150 billion under management. The merger will be paid for with about $1.1 billion in new stock and the rest in cash and debt, Invesco officials said.
"We are creating a prototype company for the future," Bob McCullough, Invesco's chief financial officer, said in an interview.
Invesco Chairman Charles Brady, who will lead the combined group, said it would have "the scale necessary for success as a financially strong and independent business operating in an increasingly concentrated industry."
McCullough stressed the deal was a merger of the two companies, which would focus on growing revenue but retain their individual identities.
"They're buying themselves into the U.S. money management market," said Bruce Brewington, an equity analyst at Putnam, Lovell &amp; Thorton, an investment banking firm in San Francisco.
Martin Cross, analyst at UBS, said Invesco is buying at the top of the Wall Street market, which many experts see as overpriced. He said UBS strategists are forecasting a 15 percent downward correction in the Dow Jones industrial average next year, and if it occurs, it would leave AIM looking rather expensive.
"The deal is exquisitely timed for the AIM shareholders and conversely not so exquisitely for Invesco shareholders," Cross said.
Invesco said it would fund the deal by issuing 290 million new shares to AIM shareholders. These would be valued at about $1.1 billion. AIM shareholders will own around 45 percent of the merged company.
McCullough said another $500 million needed to fund the merger would come in the form of cash and debt.
The merger presented a chance for the two companies to use different distribution channels and approaches. McCullough said he did not forsee any culture clash between the two.
There would be no change in their differing approaches, with Invesco continuing to be a "no-load" house, selling products direct to the customer, and AIM selling its nearly three dozen funds through brokers.
McCullough said the cost of the merger was not excessive.
"There's no question that it is a lot of money, but we view this as a long-term investment for both of us," he said. The long-term commitment was underlined by the fact that almost 50 percent of the combined shares would be held by management.
Both companies were "really active managers" and would stay that way rather than moving to passive management, McCullough said, adding that Invesco's global infrastructure presented a major opportunity.
He denied the heavy exposure to the United States would hinder Invesco from making the most of opportunities in other parts of the world. "We would like nothing better than to find opportunities in Asia and Europe," he said.
The merger would enhance the group's strength in the United States and lead to cost savings, officials said.
McCullough said the merger must be approved by Invesco and AIM shareholders and other approvals were required. The deal should be completed early next year, the company said.
British fund manager Invesco announced its widely-expected merger with U.S. mutual fund company AIM Management Group on Monday, creating one of the world's largest investment management businesses.
The combined group will be called AMVESCO Plc and have around $150 billion under management. The merger values AIM at approximately $1.6 billion, Invesco said..
"We are creating a prototype company for the future," Bob McCullough, Invesco's chief financial officer, told Reuters.
But analysts were divided as to the timing of the deal although most were happy to give Invesco the benefit of the doubt as far as its claims on synergy are concerned.
"The deal is exquisitely timed for the AIM shareholders and conversely not so exquisitely for Invesco shareholders," said Martin Cross, analyst at UBS.
Cross argues that Invesco is buying at the top of the Wall Street market which many see as having some very stretched valuations. Cross said that UBS strategists are forecasting a 15 percent downward correction on the Dow Jones index next year which, if it came to pass, would leave AIM looking rather expensive.
But Phillip Gibbs at BZW was upbeat about the merger.
"It looks rather cheap, I think they've done rather nicely," Gibbs said but did add a rider on the possibility of a major correction in the US equities market.
Analysts said the price paid by Invesco was something short of what had been predicted but Cross said it was a "pretty full price but what one might expect for a premium company."
Invesco shares closed unchanged at 237.5p Invesco's chairman and chief executive Charles Brady, the man who will lead the new group, said it would have "the scale necessary for success as a financially strong and independent business operating in an increasingly concentrated industry."
Invesco said it would fund the merger with the issue of 290 million new shares to existing holders of AIM shares. These would be valued at approximately $1.1 billion. AIM shareholders will own around 45 percent of the enlarged group and be subject to restrictions on selling the shares.
McCullough said the merger, which is conditional on approval by both Invesco and AIM shareholders and other approvals, would be non-dilutive and would not have any cost savings built-in. However, there would be cost savings in the future, he said.
The merger is not expected to be completed before February.
McCullough also said the $500 million needed to fund the merger would come in the form of cash and debt, with a one-for-five rights offering on the cards. This would involve issuing roughly 50 million new shares, he said.
McCullough said the cost of the merger was not excessive. "If you look at it on the basis of funds under management, it (the cost) is less than three percent," he said.
"There's no question that it is a lot of money, but we view this as a long-term investment for both of us," he said. This long-term commitment was underlined by the fact that almost 50 percent of the combined shares would be held by management.
The merger presented an enormous number of synergies, with the two companies using different distribution channels and approaches. McCullough said he did not forsee any culture clash between the two.
There would be no change in their differing approaches, with Invesco continuing to be a "no-load" house, selling products direct to the customer, and AIM making its sales through intermediaries.
Both companies were "really active managers" and would stay that way rather than moving to passive management, McCullough said, adding that Invesco's global infrastructure presented a major opportunity.
He denied the heavy exposure to the U.S. would hinder Invesco from making the most of opportunities in other parts of the world. "We would like nothing better than to find opportunities in Asia and Europe," he said.
The $20 billion merger of MCI Communications Corp. and British Telecommunications Plc will create a supercarrier posing a potent threat to rivals in the U.S. market place, industry analysts said Monday.
"In one company you have the resources of an AT&amp;T and the marketing savvy of an MCI," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
The new company, Concert will have a market value of $54 billion, roughly the same as AT&amp;T Corp., and could spur more mega-mergers among U.S. carriers. MCI is currently the second largest U.S. long distance company behind AT&amp;T and has about 20 percent of the market.
"Its already going pretty fast. We have had four deals of over $10 billion since April. But we are going to get more," said analyst Guy Woodlief of Dean Witter Reynolds.
The regional Bells as well as GTE Corp., AT&amp;T Corp. and Sprint Corp. will all have to re-examine their market strategies and see where they may be vulnerable.
"It clearly ups the competitive ante for the whole industry," said analyst Julie Kennedy of Goldman Sachs.
Concert will push harder into the $90 billion local calling market, both through the MCI Metro venture it already has in major U.S. cities, and through resale of regional Bell circuits, as soon as possible.
"If BT is more prepared to take early losses than MCI is, you could see a renewed emphasis on local markets," Woodlief said, adding he expected to see marketing pushed harder.
AT&amp;T will have to concentrate hard now that it is looking eye-to-eye at a rival its own size.
"Two years out MCI could take the top spot from AT&amp;T domestically, which would have been unthinkable just one short year ago. Three years out you won't recognize this industry," Kagan said.
There are plenty of vital assets, like state-of-the-art nationwide networks in the hands of carriers who don't have enough money to make the most of them, analysts say.
"WorldCom Inc. is still definitely on the block," said David Goodtree, an analyst at consultancy Forrester Research.
WorldCom is in the process of buying business network provider MFS Communications Co. in a $13.3 billion deal. MFS has barely finished buying Internet access provider UUNet when the Worldcom deal was announced.
"Conventional wisdom says GTE or Bell Atlantic (Corp.) would buy WorldCom, but a dark horse would be Cable and Wireless Plc," Goodtree said. Britain's C&amp;W said Monday it would build a trans-Atlantic cable system with MFS.
GTE was a rumored bidder for MCI, while Bell Atlantic and Nynex Corp. agreed to merge in April. None of them, however, owns a national long distance network.
GTE already is offering long distance calling. Bell Atlantic and Nynex, and the other regional Bells will not legally be able to offer long distance until a legal impasse over U.S. telecommunications reform is solved.
The Federal Communications Commission's attempts to implement the 1996 Telecom Act have been stalled by a legal challenge. The FCC had set rules to govern the resale of Bell circuits to new rivals in the local calling market.
Debt-strapped Tele-Communications Inc., the largest U.S. cable television company, is another candidate for takeover as cable networks and phone networks combine.
"Another company ripe for acquisition is TCI. They don't have enough cash to do what they want to do," said Goodtree.
He suggested that AT&amp;T or Sprint would want to buy TCI. Sprint is already a partner with TCI and two other cable firms in a national venture called Sprint Spectrum to bundle local and long distance telephone, wireless and cable TV.
MCI shares added just 50 cents to $30.75 on Nasdaq on Monday, well down from the about $39 per share the deal is worth, reflecting concerns the FCC may block the deal and that approval in any case would take a year.
The deal's actual value varies with the movements of British Telecom shares. British Telecom American depositary shares on the New York Stock Exchange soared $6.125 to $61.625.
If the deal does go through, Concert could get even bigger, with more alliances likely by the time the regional Bells can get into long distance.
"I would assume within 36 months you will have one or more partners from the regional Bells joining the Concert alliance," said Joseph Kraemer, a consultant for A.T. Kearney.
Whatever happens, the market perception of the types of deals that can be done has changed.
"What you witnessed yesterday was the birth of a supercarrier," said Kagan.
Worries about regulatory hurdles and a lengthy 12 months to completion took the edge off market euphoria over MCI Communications Corp's merger with British Telecommunications Corp, analysts said on Monday.
MCI shares were trading on Monday morning just 1/4 firmer at 30-1/2, well adrift of a theoretical value that oscillated around $39 per share, based on the price of BT American depositary shares.  
"The arbs are probably demanding between 15 and 20 percent on this deal because of the lengthy time to closing and the uncertainties of U.S. regulatory approval," said analyst Richard Klugman of PaineWebber.
The deal is an offer of 0.54 new American depositary shares in the new combined group, named Concert, for every MCI share. Each Concert ADS is equivalent to one BT American depositary share and $6 cash.  
Analysts noted a yawning gap between the value of the deal taken by using BT shares in London and the ADS shares, and a fuzzy debate about how much of the $5.60 BT special dividend should be deducted from the ADS price.
"It depends on what you use as the implied exchange rate," said analyst Julie Kennedy of Goldman Sachs. At Monday's one pound equals $1.64, the ADS shares look to be too far ahead.
In any case the final calculations will seesaw with changes in both BT's stock price and the exchange rate.  
Given the broader uncertainties, arbitragers didn't expect to push up the shares to the point where they would have to go over the details looking for the last few cents.
"MCI is trading where is should, in line with BT based on a nine to 12 month transaction, and figuring MCI holders not getting the special (BT) dividends," one arbitrager said.
Analysts say the market is not expecting much of the possible buyback of up to 10 percent of Concert shares, which could take place after the deal closes.
Klugman said that though a buyback spreads a given level of earnings over fewer shares, the cost of purchase show up in operating earnings as higher interest charges.
By how much earnings per share improves hinges on how much cheaper debt is than equity, analysts say.  -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1610
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, in his dual role as economics professor, said on Monday the large Czech foreign trade deficit came from a temporary investment wave, and he forecast a perpetual, but smaller trade gap.
Lecturing a packed assembly hall at the Prague School of Economics, Klaus, a freshly-accredited professor of economics, said the record 110.7 billion crown trade deficit in the first nine months of this year was "not tragic".
"It would be correct to discuss the current account, or the whole payment balance, and not just the trade balance... due to a number of structural phenomena," Klaus said.
"The Czech Republic will probably not have a positive trade balance in the long term, ever," he added.
Klaus said the current trade deficit was "the temporary above-average rate of investment."
He said the investment boom would ease, leading to a narrowing in the differential with savings, but a lack of natural resources, the structure of the Czech economy, and its geographical position would perpetuate a trade deficit.
In the first nine months of this year, imports rose by a nominal 15.2 percent, year-on-year, to 551.2 billion crowns, while exports climbed 5.9 percent to 440.5 percent.
The Czech Statistical Bureau forecast last week that the foreign trade deficit would reach 163.3 billion crowns for the whole of 1996, up from about 95.7 billion crowns last year.
The current account deficit stood at 46.7 billion crowns, or 6.9 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in the first half, and the CSU foreacsts it to reach 6.9 percent of GDP for the whole of 1996, and 6.8-7.4 percent of GDP next year.
Klaus repeated his long-held objection to a devaluation of the Czech crown, saying it would not help much as exports "are not a straight function of the exchange rate".
He also criticised export lobbyists' calls for an import surcharge and higher tariffs, and blasted moves to "Buy Czech", saying each country should use its comparative advantages in production and cannot make everything itself.
But Klaus, tongue-in-cheek, checked the bottle of mineral water he was given, and was pleased it was locally made.
"I was going to complain that you gave me imported water," he told the rector of the university, sitting by his side.
He said his government's aim was to stop an acceleration in the deficit, and then to start lowering it. He said the increase could be stopped by the beginning of 1998.
There is no theory on what is the maximum-bearable deficit of the current account, as a percentage of GDP, Klaus said.
He said that the Czech Republic had more than sufficient foreign exchange reserves cover the gap. The Czech central bank said official reserves totalled roughly $13 billion at the end of August, with gross banking-sector reserves at $16.6 billion.
Answering a student's question on export structure, Klaus said that exports high-added-value goods would help the overall trade balance, but such technology would take time to develop.
"How high can you jump? One metre thirty? It would be better if you could jump one-eighty.... But you can't do that straight away, you need to train it," Klaus said.
With practise "maybe you'll get to some 140 centimetres in a year's time," he said.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The planned $20 billion merger of British Telecom and MCI is certain to shake up the global telephone business, officials and analysts said Monday, as regulators started digging in for a close look at the deal.
British Telecommunications Plc and MCI Communications Corp. on Sunday announced the largest trans-Atlantic takeover in history.
The deal would create a global powerhouse vying with AT&amp;T Corp., Germany's Deutsche Telekom and a handful of other companies in a fast-changing, lucrative industry that will be a critical component of global commerce well into the 21st century.
The proposal will create work aplenty for British, American and European regulators who will review the merger, which would create a $40 billion company serving 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
For consumers, it could mean better service and lower international calling charges, while the new company would aim to better support its business customers around the world.
It will cause sleepless nights for rivals such as AT&amp;T, Sprint Corp., France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom as they weigh how to respond. Sprint is allied with the French and German companies in the Global One international venture while AT&amp;T is part of a network of alliances called World Partners.
The new company, to be called Concert, plans to take on AT&amp;T's dominance in the U.S. long-distance market, where MCI now has about 20 percent of a $75 billion business, and to win part of the $100 market for residential local phone service.
It also is expected to expand in the Asia-Pacific region -- a long-held aim for British Telecom.
British Telecom's stock jumped in London and New York, where its American shares rose $5.375 to $60.875 on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trading.
MCI shares also rose, but only 50 cents to $30.75, well below the possible value of as much as $39 a share based on the price of British Telecom's American shares. Worries about regulatory hurdles and the time to complete the deal held back the stock, industry analysts and takeover specialists said.
The merger still needed to win approval from regulators in America and Britain.
British Telecom said it was optimistic that the European Commission would clear the merger.
British officials have said only that they were looking at the deal. AT&amp;T has already called on the U.S. Federal Communications Commission to give it thorough scrutiny.
AT&amp;T also said U.S. and European regulators should not give approval unless there is more competition in British Telecom's home market.
British Telecom Chief Executive Sir Peter Bonfield has said it could take a year for the deal to win regulatory approval.
"There are a lot of hurdles to be cleared but I think the deal will go through," one London-based analyst said.
Federal rules prohibit a foreign company from owning more than 25 percent of a U.S. telephone company if the acquiror's home market is not open to competition.
Under the merger British Telecom, which already owns 20 percent of Washington-based MCI, will issue Concert cash and stock for the remaining 80 percent. Holders of MCI stock will end up controlling around a third of the merged company.
The merged company will acquire the 9 percent stake which MCI holds in Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. media empire. MCI, perhaps wary of regulatory concerns, said on Sunday it did not plan to pursue an option to increase this to 13 percent.
Biotechnology star British Biotech Plc published fresh evidence on Monday that its cancer drug Marimastat worked, but analysts said there was still a long way to go before its potential could be confirmed.
British Biotech's shares ended the day 19 pence lower at 210 after its keenly-awaited announcement appeared to provide comfort for both bulls and bears on Marimastat.
Some predicted that Marimastat, a new class of cancer drug, could one day have sales of $4 billion a year and project British Biotech into the blue chip FT-SE 100 index.
Some analysts said presentations on the drug's effectiveness in gastric, colo-rectal, ovarian and pancreatic cancer to a science conference in Vienna were a rehash of data published in May, which sent the share price soaring to record levels.
"Those who were sceptical in May will remain sceptical and those who were bullish in May will remain bullish," said one.
Finance director James Noble told Reuters the company had been deliberately cautious about its statement on Monday, because it was "extremely concerned not to raise patients' hopes of the drug."
But he said there was "significant" evidence that Marimastat increased the chances of survival in cancer patients and added "in many ways I think it is the most impressive data since the company was founded."
The studies, based on 381 cancer patients who continued taking the drug after the 28-day period required for Phase II trials, confirmed Marimastat's ability to reduce the rate of rise of cancer antigens, one measure of how much cancer is present in the body.
"Those patients who continued to take it for more than 28 days lived ... significantly longer" than those who stopped taking it, Noble said.
One of the supporters of the drug, Greig Middleton analyst John Savin, agreed, saying that "on this information today we can say that ... 37 percent (of patients) had a real overall response which improved their survival chance significantly."
However, others expressed disappointment that British Biotech failed to provide more detailed analysis of side-effects caused by Marimastat. The Oxford-based group confirmed that it caused joint pain, mainly in the arm and shoulder, with around 30 percent of patients affected after three to five months.
Yamaichi International analyst Erling Refsum said the side effect profile would be crucial to Marimastat's potential.
"Drugs become top sellers because of their side effect profile rather than because of their efficacy profile," he said.
Noble played down concerns about side effects, saying "they are not a serious problem. They are reversible."
Patients who suffered badly could interrupt their treatment from time to time without adverse impact.
Analysts said credible estimates of exactly how big Marimastat will turn out to be would be impossible until final, Phase III trials were completed.
This means investors will have to wait until 1998 at the earliest for hard evidence about whether their optimism about Marimastat and British Biotech is well founded.
LONDON - Shares in British Telecommunications (BT) surged on both sides of the Atlantic on Monday as traders furiously dealt the stock higher in the wake of a $20 billion mega-merger with America's second biggest carrier, MCI Communications.
Analysts said the deal with MCI, which turns the BT/MCI combine into the world's second largest international telephone group with annual revenues of over 25 billion pounds ($41 billion), was mainly welcomed because it would force BT to become more capital efficient by increasing its borrowing.
Weekend news of the biggest transatlantic deal in history, linking Britain's dominant telecoms company with a major American player, also prompted some analysts to reassess BT's growth prospects.
Just under 82.5 million BT shares exchanged hands in London on Monday and the stock ended a sharp 22.5 pence higher at 373.5 pence, having touched 392 pence during trade.
Some analysts recommended buying BT shares up to 400 pence on the back of the tremendous growth prosepects in the telecoms market, one of the world's most rapidly changing industries.
The deal, which creates the world's fourth largest telecoms group in terms of sales after Japan's Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp (NTT), America's AT&amp;T and Germany's Deutsche Telekom also allows BT to limit its dependence on the heavily regulated British telecoms market.
"This deal will force people to look at BT in a new light; look at the international operations, look at the international alliances in Europe, look at what they could be doing with the Internet because MCI is a big player there," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"All these much higher growth and much more exciting elements of BT in which the company has been quietly building value will come much more to the fore," he added, noting that he was pitching the stock's value at nearer 430 pence.
The merger, which was sweetened with a 2.2 billion pound special dividend for BT shareholders, helps lift the company's debt-to-equity ratio, or gearing, to 65 percent from under five percent.
Analysts have been valuing BT, which had a market value of about 22.6 billion pounds before the MCI deal was announced on Sunday, as a British utility that had about 60 percent of its revenues governed by a regulatory price cap.
But having lined up six European joint-ventures, BT's share of the population in Europe alone for which it may win a licence could rise to 90 million. Armed with MCI, it also hopes to be better placed to win market share in Asia -- possibly with NTT.
"In one year's time, only 15 percent of BT's revenues will be covered by a price cap. And, with their European operations getting off the ground, they will have a very substantial business in international markets," said one analyst.
BT and MCI's alliance, dubbed Concert Plc, still needs to win regulatory clearance in both America and Britain.
Britain's Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) said that it was still unclear whether the merger, which BT believes will be cleared in about 12 months, would fall under its remit for clearance or under that of the European Commission.
One of the issues that determines which regulatory authority rules on the merger will be the turnover of the new company. However, any EC decision would be made in conjunction with advice from Oftel, the British telecoms regulator, and the DTI.
Most analysts believe that while there are hurdles to the deal, the merger is likely to be shown the green light.
Under U.S. rules, a 25 percent stake limit in U.S. communication companies can be lifted if it is in the public interest. Concert Plc, as a major competitor both in the U.S. and internationally, would help drive down call rates. ($1=.6107 Pound)
The UK telecoms market is one of the world's most competitive and any attempt to block a planned $20 billion merger between British Telecom and U.S. firm MCI on grounds of restricted trade will fail, analysts said on Monday.
The merger partly hinges on how open the UK market is deemed to be because U.S. rules bar foreign groups from buying more than 25 percent of a U.S. firm unless their home market is deemed to be as competitive as that of the United States.
If it is approved, the merger between BT and America's MCI announced on Sunday to create Concert Plc will represent the largest cross-border takeover in history and the world's second biggest international telephone group.
U.S. telecommunications market leader AT&amp;T, which stands to lose most from such a new heavyweight rival, has urged regulatory authorities to give the planned deal with MCI, the number two U.S. carrier, the "scrutiny it deserves."
But analysts said it was unrealistic for AT&amp;T, British Telecom's arch-rival in international markets, to say that the British market was not competitive enough.
One industry analyst, asked whether he thought the proposed deal would be cleared, said: "Ultimately, I think it will be approved. But some tinkering may be required."
"I don't think it's realistic for AT&amp;T to argue that the market in the UK isn't open -- or that the market in the U.S. is any better," said one analyst who declined to be named.
Britain's market is more open than those of its European neighbours, most of which will only abolish state monopolies over telecoms services by January 1, 1998.
The European Commission cleared the BT's acquisition of its initial 20 percent stake in MCI three years ago.
The merger between BT and MCI to form Concert Plc will have to be approved by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and Britain's Department of Trade and Industry.
Although BT still controls more than 90 percent of all local UK telephone connections, analysts said there were few barriers to foreign companies wanting to compete here.
AT&amp;T is already planning to establish a foothold in the UK market since the international partnership between BT and Cable and Wireless unit Mercury ended earlier this year.
AT&amp;T has also been tipped as likely to forge alliances with UK cable companies in the local market as well as with mobile networks and new operators such as Cambridge-based Ionica.
A spokeswoman for UK telecoms regulator Oftel said it was too early to say which obstacles stood in the way of BT and MCI completing the proposed deal by the end of next year.
British Biotech Plc published further evidence on Monday that its cancer drug Marimastat works, but analysts said there was still a long way to go before its potential as a blockbuster can be confirmed.
British Biotech's shares ended the day 19 pence lower at 210 after its keenly-awaited announcement appeared to provide comfort for both bulls and bears.
Some forecast that Marimastat, a new class of cancer drug, could one day have sales of $4 billion a year and make British Biotech a FT-SE 100 company.
But some analysts said presentations on the drug's effectiveness in gastric, colo-rectal, ovarian and pancreatic cancer to a science conference in Vienna were just a rehash of data published in May, which sent the share price soaring to record levels.
"Those who were sceptical in May will remain sceptical and those who were bullish in May will remain bullish," said one.
Finance director James Noble told Reuters the company had been deliberately cautious about its statement on Monday, because it was "extremely concerned not to raise patients' hopes of the drug."
But he said there was "significant" evidence that Marimastat increased the chances of survival in cancer patients and added "in many ways I think it is the most impressive data since the company was founded."
The studies, based on 381 cancer patients who continued taking the drug after the 28-day period required for Phase II trials, confirmed Marimastat's ability to reduce the rate of rise of cancer antigens, one measure of how much cancer is present in the body.
"Those patients who continued to take it for more than 28 days lived...significantly longer" than those who stopped taking it, Noble said.
One of the bulls of the drug, Greig Middleton analyst John Savin, agreed, saying that "on this information today we can say that...37 percent (of patients) had a real overall response which improved their survival chance significantly."
But others expressed disappointment that British Biotech failed to provide more detailed analysis of side effects caused by Marimastat. The Oxford-based group confirmed it caused joint pain, mainly in the arm and shoulder, with around 30 percent of patients affected after three to five months.
Yamaichi International analyst Erling Refsum said the side effect profile will be crucial to Marimastat's potential.
"Drugs become top sellers because of their side effect profile rather than because of their efficacy profile," he said.
Noble played down concerns about side effects, saying: "They are not a serious problem. They are reversible."
He said patients who suffered badly could interrupt their treatment from time to time without adverse impact.
Analysts said credible estimates of exactly how big Marimastat will turn out to be would be impossible until final, Phase III trials were completed.
This means investors will have to wait until 1998 at the very earliest for hard evidence that their optimism about Marimastat and British Biotech is well founded.
-- London Newsroom +44 71 542 7717
Toronto stocks posted their 51st record close of 1996 on Monday, powered by a rally in interest-sensitive issues ahead of an expected cut in Canadian interest rates, analysts said.
"(The) market is looking for yet another Bank of Canada cut," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie.
Canada's central bank has dropped short-term interest rates 19 times since May 1995, slashing the key bank rate by 4.75 percent to stimulate a lackluster economy.
"If there's another Bank of Canada cut, the bank stocks will continue rallying," Beattie said.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index gained 17.95 points to close at 5609.26 points, reaching its 51st record close of 1996.
However, the overall market was mixed despite the rally in bank stocks. Declining issues outnumbered advances 478 to 447 with 300 issues unchanged.
A total of 88.7 million shares were traded worth C$1.28 billion (US$958 million) at Canada's largest stock exchange.
"Everybody is still looking at low interest rates and wondering where to put their money. They jump on the bandwagon of recent movements," said Ron Meisels, president of P &amp; C Holdings Ltd.
The financial services sector extended its long rally, adding more than two percent on Monday. The group led half of Toronto's 14 sub-indices higher.
Other strong sectors included real estate and utilities. Base metals, conglomerates and communications led the weak side.
Among hot stocks, Edper Group Ltd. receipts soared C$7.50 to close at C$78.50 on 4.2 million shares amid market speculation that talks over the World Financial Center in New York would soon conclude, leaving majority shareholders' Bronfman group in clear control.
* Bank of Montreal jumped C$1.10 to C$42.70, while National Bank of Canada rose C$0.40 to C$13.65.
* Air Canada shares gained C$0.45 to close at C$5.80 as investors appeared to shun troubled Canadian Airlines Corp. in favor of Canada's largest air carrier.
* Canadian Airlines fell C$0.36 to C$1.25 today after announcing a four-year C$800 million (US$599 million) restructuring plan on Friday.
Canadian gold giant Barrick Gold Corp is the most likely contender to partner junior mining company Bre-X Minerals Ltd in developing its huge Indonesian gold deposit, analysts polled by Reuters said.
"We really only have one potential front runner: Barrick," said gold analyst Barry Allan with Gordon Capital.
Barrick has demonstrated its interest in Indonesian gold by investing more than US$10 million in exploration and amassing a large land position in Indonesia, analysts said.  
And Barrick's association with a construction company run by the daughter of Indonesia's President Suharto suggests Barrick is carefully setting up its network to control a piece or all of the Busang, Bre-X's 47-million-ounce discovery in the middle of the jungles of Borneo.
"They're trying to position themselves the best they can," said one analyst who did not want to be named.  
Analysts who have been closely watching developments around Busang,said Barrick stands the best chance of bidding successfully for a stake in the property because Barrick's own high-priced stock, relative to the value of its assets, will look attractive to Bre-X shareholders.
"In order to pay the sort of multiples Bre-X is trading at, you have to have a high gold multiple in order to land the company or the property at these prices," said Rick Cohen at Goepel Shields in Vancouver.  
Bre-X shareholders will likely look for a combination of cash and shares so they can keep a stake in the fortunes of Busang, analysts said.
Bre-X is looking for a heavyweight mining company to buy all or part of the Busang discovery and act as operator of what is expected to become one of the world's biggest gold mines. But the search has been dogged by a dispute with Bre-X's Indonesian partners over ownership.
The spat has caused the Indonesian government to delay granting Bre-X essential contracts of work needed to develop Busang. Without the contracts, analysts said a bid for Bre-X would be unlikely.  
Bre-X has refused to speak to the media since it forged an alliance with Indonesian President Suharto's son last week. But some analysts said Bre-X told them recently the dispute should be cleared up this month.
While Barrick is at the top of the list of companies who could afford to buy into Bre-X, Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc also has the resources and the attractive stock price to make a bid, analyst Cohen pointed out.
"The size of this deposit and the potential involved here sort of limits it to those two," he said.
Others said the Bre-X play was not Placer Dome's style.  
"Definitely Placer has the capability to do it. I just don't think they have the stomach for it," said Allan.
Newmont Gold Co, RTZ Corp PLC, Minorco SA and Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold Inc could also be in the running for Bre-X. However, their chances are not as good as Barrick's, analysts said, noting that Newmont, Freeport and RTZ already have large exposure in Indonesia.  
While the Luxemburg-based Minorco, controlled by Anglo American Corp of South Africa  ANGL.J., has recently raised US$400 million, the company's stock lacks the high multiple that would make it attractive to Bre-X shareholders.
Minorco could run into political problems if it were to make a bid for Bre-X, said one South African analyst who follows Minorco closely.
"The South Africans might not want to get into a situation that's so blatantly political," he said. "It might backfire on them."  
If Barrick does eventually succeed in controlling the Busang deposit, it would go a long way to fulfilling Barrick chief executive Peter Munk's dream of building the world's largest gold company to supplant Anglo American, analysts said.
"It fits very nicely with Munk's strategy," said one analyst. "Munk is not driven by money. He wants to have a legacy. He wants to be able to say he started with nothing and ended with the largest gold company in the world.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, in his dual role as economics professor, said on Monday the large Czech foreign trade deficit came from a temporary investment wave, and he forecast a perpetual, but smaller trade gap.
Lecturing a packed assembly hall at the Prague School of Economics, Klaus, a freshly-accredited professor of economics, said the record 110.7 billion crown trade deficit in the first nine months of this year was "not tragic".
"It would be correct to discuss the current account, or the whole payment balance, and not just the trade balance... due to a number of structural phenomena," Klaus said.
"The Czech Republic will probably not have a positive trade balance in the long term, ever," he added.
Klaus said the current trade deficit was "the temporary above-average rate of investment."
He said the investment boom would ease, leading to a narrowing in the differential with savings, but a lack of natural resources, the structure of the Czech economy, and its geographical position would perpetuate a trade deficit.
In the first nine months of this year, imports rose by a nominal 15.2 percent, year-on-year, to 551.2 billion crowns, while exports climbed 5.9 percent to 440.5 percent.
The Czech Statistical Bureau forecast last week that the foreign trade deficit would reach 163.3 billion crowns for the whole of 1996, up from about 95.7 billion crowns last year.
The current account deficit stood at 46.7 billion crowns, or 6.9 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in the first half, and the CSU foreacsts it to reach 6.9 percent of GDP for the whole of 1996, and 6.8-7.4 percent of GDP next year.
Klaus repeated his long-held objection to a devaluation of the Czech crown, saying it would not help much as exports "are not a straight function of the exchange rate".
He also criticised export lobbyists' calls for an import surcharge and higher tariffs, and blasted moves to "Buy Czech", saying each country should use its comparative advantages in production and cannot make everything itself.
Klaus said his government's aim was to stop an acceleration in the deficit, and then to start lowering it. He said the increase could be stopped by the beginning of 1998.
There is no theory on what is the maximum-bearable deficit of the current account, as a percentage of GDP, Klaus said.
He said that the Czech Republic had more than sufficient foreign exchange reserves cover the gap. The Czech central bank said official reserves totalled roughly $13 billion at the end of August, with gross banking-sector reserves at $16.6 billion.
Answering a student's question on export structure, Klaus said that exports of high-added-value goods would help the overall trade balance, but such technology would take time to develop.
"How high can you jump? One metre thirty? It would be better if you could jump one-eighty.... But you can't do that straight away, you need to train it," Klaus said.
With practise "maybe you'll get to some 140 centimetres in a year's time," he said.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Russia's grain crop is proving to be one of its lowest in three decades, prompting trade sources on Monday to speculate that the government could return to world markets for imports to feed the military and remote areas.
The nearly complete 1996 harvest, bucking a trend of increased grain output across the world, weighs in at a gross 74.6 million tonnes, with little high-quality bread wheat and virtually no stocks from last year's disastrous output, which was the worst for more than 30 years.
"The figure is, I think, slightly lower than we expected," said a Western agriculture source, commenting on preliminary data published by the State Statistics Committee on Friday.
"It means additional imports."
The cash-strapped Russian state insisted last year it had long ago left world markets for good.
But Anatoly Manellya, head of agriculture forecasting at the Centre for Economic Trends, a think-tank set up by the Russian government, said the Federal Food Corporation, the state agency responsible for reserves to feed the armed forces and remote towns, might soon be in the international market.
"The Federal Food Corporation is probably going to try to do some deals," he said, adding only that it was in preliminary negotiations.
The agency has bought a mere 450,000 tonnes of domestic grain out of the 4.5 million tonnes it plans to buy this year.
"As far as I know, the government is talking about possible imports for us, but I cannot tell you anything more since we merely fulfil government orders and they have not yet told us anything," said Corporation deputy director Yuri Lysenko.
Russia's harvest last year was officially 63.4 million tonnes and record-high world grain prices kept traders from importing any significant quantities from beyond the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
This year prices are lower after bumper world harvests, with benchmark Chicago contracts at $3.75 per bushel after a long spell above $5 and a spike to $7.50 in March.
But Russian farmers, mindful of recent high prices, have declined to sell to state reserves -- making government officials jittery over how to feed the soldiers and isolated Arctic cities that cannot depend on the private sector.
"It seems like more and more contracts are being talked, especially in the (Russian) Far East," said the Western source, who forecast Russia's total grain imports over the 1996/97 crop marketing year from all sources at five million tonnes.
Andrei Sizov of the private agricultural consultancy SovEcon Ltd recently put the total at six to seven million tonnes.
Allowing for the eight or nine percent that is lost after cleaning, Russia's 1996 net harvest will probably weigh in at a lean 68 to 69 million tonnes -- not much above last year.
Manellya said he had told the cabinet last week that net output would be 69.8 million tonnes.
"This is better than last year, but is still one of the three worst harvests in the last three decades," he said.
-- Moscow Newsroom +7095 941 8520
Royal/Dutch Shell's plan to build an oil refinery in China inched closer to reality on Monday when Chinese oil officials revealed Beijing was close to giving its long-awaited approval.
A senior Chinese oil official involved in the US$6 billion refinery and chemical complex plan told Reuters that Beijing was poised to give its stamp of approval before the end of 1996.
"From what I know, it will be approved very soon by the Chinese government," the official said by telephone in Beijing.
"It will probably be this year," said the official.
The petrochemical complex, planned for Huizhou, in southern China's booming Guangdong province, has been on the drawing board since the late 1980s. A feasibility study report was presented to Beijing in February 1994.
Shell plans to hold 50 percent in the complex and China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) 20 percent, while the Guangdong provincial government, China Merchants Holding Company and state refiner SINOPEC each would have 10 percent.
"The Chinese side and Shell have discussed this for several years. Both sides have spent a lot of effort, money," said the official, who declined to be named.
If successful, the Shell plant would be the second joint venture refinery in the country to involve foreign participation. The 100,000 barrel per day Dalian refinery in northern China began trial runs in October. France's Total holds 20 percent of that facility along with various Chinese partners.
Indications that fresh developments on the long-stalled project might soon emerge came in September when a top Shell official met Chinese Premier Li Peng to discuss the company's future cooperation with China.
The project figured highly on the agenda when John Jennings, chairman of Shell Transport and Trading Co, met the Chinese premier in Beijing, oil sources earlier disclosed.
"That clearly was a sign that both sides were positive about the project," said a Shell spokesman by telephone.
Beijing's positive stance was spurred by the overriding concern that the country needed to increase its oil production and refining capacity to meet rising oil demand, the Chinese oil official said.
China's oil consumption is forecast to explode in the next few years, fuelled by economic reforms.
Experts estimate refined oil product consumption would grow at an average yearly rate of 5.7 percent during 1995-2000, reaching 4.1 million bpd in 2000 and 5.3 million bpd by 2005.
To meet rising demand, China would need to import 40 to 50 million tonnes of crude oil by 2000 compared with 17.09 million tonnes in 1995, experts said.
The World Bank has said China would overtake the United States as the world's biggest economy within the next generation and foreign oil companies are keen to tap its domestic market by building new refineries.
Shell's project has faced countless hurdles since the early 1990s, from high costs to strained bilateral relations.
The project was kept on tenterhooks in early 1993, when Sino-British ties plunged to a low over Hong Kong after Governor Chris Patten introduced democratic reforms in the colony, which reverts to Chinese rule in mid-1997.
China's credit-tightening policy in 1994 and centralisation of the country's oil policy in the same year erected further hurdles for the costly joint venture project.
"This project was initially thought to be gunned down... because it was too costly. But now, they want to go ahead with it," a source with state refiner SINOPEC said by telephone.
At the same time Shell started a long-drawn-out fight for more access to the booming domestic market in China.
Some Chinese officials are known to be reluctant to giving foreign oil companies toeholds in the massive market while others preferred foreign investments be channeled into upgrades of older refineries.
A Shell spokesman in Hong Kong said the company was hopeful of a speedy decision from Beijing.
Details of the joint venture have still to be worked out and the petrochemical complex, which would take at least four to five years to complete, would be ready only after 2000, Chinese oil sources said.
Swedish Prime Minister Goran Persson said on Monday he had expressed disapproval to his Chinese counterpart over the jailing of dissident Wang Dan.
Persson raised the case of former student leader Wang, jailed last week for 11 years, during a dinner with Chinese Premier Li Peng in Beijing on Sunday, he told a news conference.
A court in the Chinese capital last Wednesday took less than four hours to condemn Wang for plotting against the government, after a trial that sparked expressions of concern from around the world.
"During the official talks of the delegation we talked about human rights in general," Persson said.
Asked about the case of Wang Dan he said the 27-year-old dissident had not been discussed in the official talks but had been raised afterwards.
"During the dinner I had the opportunity to have a more private discussion with Premier Li Peng and raised that case you mentioned, Wang Dan," he said.
"I told him what we have said before...that we don't like the treament in this case," he said.
Persson, who has drawn political fire at home for his decision to carry out the six-day visit despite Wang's jailing, declined to give details of the talks or to describe Premier Li's reaction to the raising of Wang's case.
It was more efficient to raise such cases as Wang's in private at a dinner than during official talks because China considered such matters internal affairs, he said, adding that Sweden firmly believed in continuing dialogue on human rights.
"We...think that China treats its political dissidents and religious dissidents too hard and are also critical towards their frequent use of capital punishment," he said.
"We have signed an agreement with China where the Swedish Raoul Wallenberg Institute will arrange human rights seminars in Sweden and China...for officials from the prisons and the judicial system," he said but did not elaborate.
The jailing of Wang Dan was latest in a series of crushing blows to China's tiny and struggling pro-democracy movement. Most dissidents have already been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or adminstrative detention.
Sweden and China had signed an agreement on a consulate for Hong Kong, which returns to Beijing rule on July 1, 1997, he said adding that his discussions with Chinese leaders had also touched on international politics and trade.
A delegation of Swedish businessmen was travelling with the prime minister during his visit and was expected to sign a number of deals, Persson said but gave no details.
Investor Carl Icahn resumed his campaign to break up RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. Monday by moninating a slate of directors he wants to replace the existing board members.
Icahn, who holds a 7.3 percent stake in RJR, named his intended nominees to RJR's board in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In a letter to RJR Chairman Steven Goldstone that was attached to the SEC filing, Icahn reiterated his request that RJR spin off its Nabisco Holdings Corp. unit immediately.
Icahn, who began a campaign to split up RJR last year, said in his letter that the company's stock price had lost more than 20 percent recently while the company has lost market share to rival Philip Morris Cos. Inc.
RJR Nabisco Holdings said in response to Icahn that the slate of directors he submitted was weaker than the one assembled last year by Icahn and fellow investor Bennett LeBow, who had teamed up for a while in an effort to separate RJR's tobacco operations from its food businesses.
"Mr. Icahn's slate appears for the most part to be a group of lawyers, consultants and retired people with records that will not withstand scrutiny," RJR said in a statement.
RJR, which owns 80.5 percent of Nabisco, repeated that it favored a spin-off of the food unit but said this is not the right time to split up the company.
"We plan to do it when a spinoff will not endanger the company," RJR said. "But an attempt to spin off Nabisco in the current political and legal environment could do serious damage to the company, the tobacco industry and our shareholders," it added.
Icahn said in his letter that his proposed slate of directors will be headed by Thomas Rattigan, former chief executive officer of PepsiCo Bottling International and former chairman of G. Heileman Brewing Co.
"The management hasn't demonstrated that they're doing anything better than they were doing last year, so why not try again?" Rattigan said in a telephone interview.
Rattigan said the nominated directors intend to pursue a global settlement of tobacco litigation claims. He was not specific about those plans, but said any global settlement must be an industrywide effort.
"It's in the interest of everybody that some sort of global settlement be undertaken to permit these companies to get on with their corporate existence and do what they should be doing," Rattigan said.
In the letter to Goldstone, Icahn also said that the board nominees would raise the company's annual dividend to $2 per share and maintain that rate after the spin-off of Nabisco.
RJR raised its annual dividend last March to $1.85 per share from $1.50.
According to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Rattigan was hired by Icahn as a consultant on Nov. 1 for $2 million.
Icahn and LeBow failed earlier this year in a similar attempt to force a spin-off of the tobacco unit.
Icahn and LeBow split up after their defeat last year, although both said they would continue to individually press for an immediate spinoff.
Shares of RJR closed up 25 cents at $29.25 on the New York Stock Exchange.
CSX Corp. and Norfolk Southern Corp. said Monday they had entered discussions about their rival offers to buy Conrail Inc.
The two railroads did not disclose the specific nature of their talks, but Conrail's stock fell on views that the discussions would dampen the prospects of a bidding war for the Philadelphia-based railroad.
A source familiar with the companies said the discussions began late last week, continued through the weekend and into Monday.
Richmond, Va.-based CSX last month struck an agreement to buy Conrail in a $8.4 billion cash and stock transaction that valued Conrail at $92.50 per share. Norfolk Southern soon launched its own bid of $100 cash per share, or about $9 billion.
Since then, the two companies have been locked in a fight over their rival offers and taken the matter to court.
CSX, which said Norfolk Southern initiated the talks, said the discussions concerned "a possible sale by the post-merger CSX/Conrail of certain material assets."
Meanwhile, Norfolk Southern sought to quell speculation that it would abandon its bid for Conrail, saying that it was committed to its offer and has secured more than $15 billion to finance the proposed acquisition.
Norfolk Southern said the talks were started by CSX, adding that they were aimed at promoting competition.
"Our willingness to talk to CSX at its suggestion is consistent with my previously announced position that Conrail cannot be acquired by either CSX or NS without a plan to maintain a balanced competitive structure for Eastern railroad service. While I am heartened by CSX's willingness to discuss these matters, we have no reason to believe that Conrail is prepared to accept that reality," said Norfolk Southern Chief Executive Officer David Goode.
A battle for Conrail is viewed as being rife with difficulties for all the companies. Although Norfolk Southern has a higher offer on the table, analysts have said that Pennsylvania's corporate takeover law could be an obstacle to its proposed acquisition.
"This is not a good time to be having a long, drawn-out fight. The quicker they get to this, the better," said analyst Anthony Hatch of NatWest Securities.
Conrail shares had partly recovered from the early steep fall by late afternoon, trading down $1.50 per share at $93.75 on NYSE. CSX rose $1.50 to $44.50 and Norfolk Southern gained $1.375 to $90.75, also on the NYSE.
The executive tapped to lead a a dissident slate of directors in a proxy fight against RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp said the current management has shown little progress in solving the company's problems.
"The management hasn't demonstrated that they're doing anything better than they were doing last year, so why not try again?" said Tom Rattigan, who was nominated to the slate Monday by investor Carl Icahn.
Last year's similar effort by Icahn and investor Bennett LeBow was overwhelmingly defeated by shareholders.  
As of October 25, Icahn held a 7.3 percent stake in RJR.
The dissident slate supports an immediate spinoff of RJR's 80.5 percent owned Nabisco Holdings Corp food business.
RJR insists it also wants to spin off Nabisco, but says this is not an appropriate time to split up the company.
Rattigan told Reuters in a telephone interview that he began speaking with Icahn several months ago about a potential role and signed up with the investor on November 1.
"It appears to be an opportunity to get in and play a role at a company that seems to be having some major league problems," he said. Shares of RJR closed up 1/4 at 29-1/4.  
A former top executive at PepsiCo Bottling International and G. Heileman Brewing Co, Rattigan dismissed RJR's criticism that the slate does not contain any tobacco industry experts.
"Based on (RJR's) performance to date, I think that's good news," Rattigan said.
Rattigan said the slate intends to pursue a global settlement of tobacoo litigation claims. He was not specific about those plans, but said any global settlement must be an industry-wide effort.  
"It's in the interest of everybody that some sort of global settlement be undertaken to permit these companies to get on with their corporate existence and do what they should be doing," Rattigan said.
In a letter to RJR chief executive officer Steven Goldstone, Icahn also said the board nominees would raise the company's annual dividend to $2 per share and maintain that rate after the spinoff of Nabisco. RJR raised its annual dividend last March to $1.85 per share from $1.50.
According to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Rattigan was hired by Icahn's as a consultant on November 1 for $2 million.
Icahn noted in the letter to Goldstone that he will pay the expenses of the proxy fight and vowed not to enter into any agreement, merger or understanding at the company if the new board takes control.
Investors pushed General Motors Corp. shares higher Monday, a sign that Wall Street is pleased that the auto giant signed a new national labour agreement that allows it to shed some workers.
GM's shares traded up $1.50 at $55.50 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange after the company signed the tentative agreement with the United Auto Workers union early Saturday morning.
"The Wall Street reaction reflects some belief that GM didn't cave in," said Burnham Securities auto analyst David Healy. "GM appears to have retained its right to manage and indulge in some outsourcing."
Analysts said the pact will allow GM to reduce its 215,000-member hourly work force by 30,000 or more during the next three years through normal retirements.
The pact contains a nominal guarantee that GM maintain employment of about 95 percent of its current work force -- a pattern set in the Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. agreements -- but it also allows GM to exit some unprofitable parts businesses and sell certain components plants.
David Cole, director of the University of Michigan's Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation, said he believes the pact will help GM to to boost efficiency.
"GM can use attrition to shrink its work force and take advantage of productivity improvements," Cole said. "The UAW has as much interest in a competitive General Motors as the shareholders do."
But the positive reaction was tempered by a continuing strike at GM's Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant, where 4,809 workers walked off the job Oct. 29 over demands for more jobs.
The plant makes the Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport/utilities, which are among GM's most popular -- and most profitable -- vehicles. UAW Local 95 wants GM to hire more workers in Janesville to reduce the strain of heavy overtime and an increasing workload.
On Sunday, members of UAW Local 23 returned to work at a key metal stamping plant in Indianapolis after ratifying a settlement on a new local contract.
The union members had struck for five days, shutting off shipments of fenders, doors, hoods and other steel body panels to nine of GM's 11 North American light truck assembly plants.
By the weekend, strike-caused parts shortages forced GM to shut down factories in Fort Wayne, Ind., Shreveport, La., Moraine, Ohio, and Linden, N.J.
GM said the Fort Wayne and Moraine plants are scheduled to resume normal operations Tuesday, while Shreveport and Linden will be running again by Thursday.
Last week, the UAW walkouts and lingering parts shortages from last month's Canadian Auto Workers strike had idled nearly 38,000 GM workers in the United States.
GM did not say how many workers were still idle, but added that four car plants stricken by the CAW strike will be back to full production by Tuesday, including Detroit; Lordstown, Ohio; and Lake Orion and Lansing, Mich.
Healy estimated that between the two walkouts, GM's production losses will total 175,000 cars and trucks, which will slash the company's fourth-quarter profits by $600 million to $650 million.
In contrast to the tense atmosphere that continues to surround the GM labour situation, UAW President Stephen Yokich and Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton signed a new three-year contract in an historic ceremony at the union's Detroit headquarters.
The signing marked the first time that a Big Three automaker has signed a new labour accord at the UAW's Solidarity House.
Yokich and Eaton were in a jovial mood as they signed the pact -- a stark contrast to the separate, grim-faced news conferences where the UAW and GM announced their deal early Saturday morning.
Yokich told reporters the Chrysler signing "shows that this company recognises the union and wants to work with them."
Meanwhile, GM declared an unchanged quarterly dividend of 40 cents a share on its $1-2/3 par value common stock.
Some analysts had expected GM's board of directors to increase the annual payout to $2 a share from $1.60 because of its growing cash pile. But Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi said the board did not want to disrupt the UAW pact's ratification by giving more cash to shareholders.
The merger of MCI Communications Corp and British Telecommunications Plc will spur still more mega-mergers among U.S. carriers, seeking safety in size as markets coalesce.
"It's already going pretty fast. We have had four deals of over $10 billion since April. But we are going to get more," said analyst Guy Woodlief of Dean Witter Reynolds.
Regional Bells, GTE Corp, AT&amp;T Corp and Sprint Corp will all have to re-examine their market strategies and see where they may be vulnerable.  
There are plenty of vital assets, like state-of-the art nationwide networks, in the hands of carriers who don't have enough money to make the most of them, analysts say.
"WorldCom Inc  is still definitely on the block," said David Goodtree, an analyst at consultancy Forrester Research.
WorldCom is in the process of buying business network provider MFS Communications Co in a $13.3 billion deal. MFS had barely finished buying Internet access provider UUNet when the Worldcom deal was announced.  
"Conventional wisdowm says GTE or Bell Atlantic (Corp ) would buy WorldCom, but a dark horse would be Cable and Wireless Plc," Goodtree said. C&amp;W on Monday said it would build a transatlantic cable system with MFS.
GTE was a rumored bidder for MCI, while Bell Atlantic and NYNEX Corp agreed to merge in April. None of them owns a national long distance network.
GTE already is offering long distance calling, and the other two plan to, once the legal impasse over U.S. telecommunications reform is solved.  
With cable TV networks integrating with telephony, Tele-Communications Inc is a candidate, some say.
"Another company ripe for acquisition is TCI. They don't have enough cash to do what they want to do," said Goodtree.
He suggested that AT&amp;T or Sprint would want to buy TCI. Sprint is already a partner with TCI and two other cable firms in a national venture called Sprint Spectrum to bundle local and long distance telephone, wireless and cable TV.
Concert, as the combined MCI/BT will be called, will be able to assert its strength fairly rapidly after the deal closes, expected in nine to 12 months.  
"It clearly ups the competitive ante for the whole industry," said analyst Julie Kennedy of Goldman Sachs.
Concert will push harder into local markets, both through the MCI Metro venture it already has in major U.S. cities and through resale of regional Bell circuits.
"If BT is more prepared to take early losses than MCI has, you could see a renewed emphasis on local markets," Woodlief said, adding he expected to see marketing pushed harder.
AT&amp;T will have to concentrate hard now it is looking eye-to-eye at a rival its own size.
"In one company (Concert) you have the resources of an AT&amp;T and the marketing savvy of an MCI," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
"Two years out MCI could take the top spot from AT&amp;T domestically, which would have been unthinkable just one short year ago. Three years out you won't recognize this industry," said Kagan.
Britain's Invesco Plc Monday agreed to merge with Houston-based mutual fund company AIM Management Group Inc. in a deal valued at $1.6 billion, creating one of the world's largest investment management businesses.
The combined group will be called Amvesco Plc and have around $150 billion under management. The merger will be paid for with about $1.1 billion in new stock and the rest in cash and debt, Invesco officials said.
"We are creating a prototype company for the future," Bob McCullough, Invesco's chief financial officer, said in an interview.
Invesco Chairman Charles Brady, who will lead the combined group, said it would have "the scale necessary for success as a financially strong and independent business operating in an increasingly concentrated industry."
McCullough stressed the deal was a merger of the two companies, which would focus on growing revenue but retain their individual identities.
Invesco said it would fund the deal by issuing 290 million new shares to AIM shareholders. These would be valued at about $1.1 billion. AIM shareholders will own around 45 percent of the merged company.
McCullough said another $500 million needed to fund the merger would come in the form of cash and debt.
The merger presented a chance for the two companies to use different distribution channels and approaches. McCullough said he did not forsee any culture clash between the two.
There would be no change in their differing approaches, with Invesco continuing to be a "no-load" house, selling products direct to the customer, and AIM selling its nearly three dozen funds through brokers.
McCullough said the cost of the merger was not excessive.
"There's no question that it is a lot of money, but we view this as a long-term investment for both of us," he said. The long-term commitment was underlined by the fact that almost 50 percent of the combined shares would be held by management.
Both companies were "really active managers" and would stay that way rather than moving to passive management, McCullough said, adding that Invesco's global infrastructure presented a major opportunity.
He denied the heavy exposure to the United States would hinder Invesco from making the most of opportunities in other parts of the world. "We would like nothing better than to find opportunities in Asia and Europe," he said.
The merger would enhance the group's strength in the United States and lead to cost savings, officials said.
McCullough said the merger must be approved by Invesco and AIM shareholders and other approvals were required. The deal should be completed early next year, the company said.
CSX Corp. and Norfolk Southern Corp. said Monday they had entered discussions about their rival offers to buy Conrail Inc.
The two railroads did not disclose the specific nature of their talks, but Conrail's stock fell on views that the discussions would dampen the prospects of a bidding war for the Philadelphia-based railroad.
A source familiar with the companies said the discussions began late last week, continued through the weekend and into Monday.
Richmond, Va.-based CSX last month struck an agreement to buy Conrail in a $8.4 billion cash and stock transaction that valued Conrail at $92.50 per share. Norfolk Southern soon launched its own bid of $100 cash per share, or about $9 billion.
Since then, the two companies have been locked in a fight over their rival offers and taken the matter to court.
CSX, which said Norfolk Southern initiated the talks, said the discussions concerned "a possible sale by the post-merger CSX/Conrail of certain material assets."
Meanwhile, Norfolk Southern sought to quell speculation that it would abandon its bid for Conrail, saying that it was committed to its offer and has secured more than $15 billion to finance the proposed acquisition.
Norfolk Southern said the talks were started by CSX, adding that they were aimed at promoting competition.
"Our willingness to talk to CSX at its suggestion is consistent with my previously announced position that Conrail cannot be acquired by either CSX or NS without a plan to maintain a balanced competitive structure for Eastern railroad service. While I am heartened by CSX's willingness to discuss these matters, we have no reason to believe that Conrail is prepared to accept that reality," said Norfolk Southern Chief Executive Officer David Goode (corrects from Dean Goode).
A battle for Conrail is viewed as being rife with difficulties for all the companies. Although Norfolk Southern has a higher offer on the table, analysts have said that Pennsylvania's corporate takeover law could be an obstacle to its proposed acquisition.
"This is not a good time to be having a long, drawn-out fight. The quicker they get to this, the better," said analyst Anthony Hatch of NatWest Securities.
Conrail shares had partly recovered from the early steep fall by afternoon, trading down $2 per share at $92.25 on NYSE. CSX rose $1.625 to $44.625 and Norfolk Southern gained $1.125 to $90.50, also on the NYSE.
British fund manager Invesco announced its widely-flagged merger with U.S. mutual fund company AIM Management Group on Monday, creating one of the world's largest investment management businesses.
The combined group will be called AMVESCO Plc and have around $150 billion under management. The merger values AIM at approximately $1.6 billion, Invesco said in a statement.
"We are creating a prototype company for the future," Bob McCullough, Invesco's chief financial officer, told Reuters.
Invesco's chairman and chief executive Charles Brady, the man who will lead the new group, said it would have "the scale necessary for success as a financially strong and independent business operating in an increasingly concentrated industry."
McCullough stressed the deal was a merger of two companies rather than a takeover, as it had been described in some quarters. The two would combine to focus on revenue enhancement but would retain their individual identities, he added.
"Brand awareness will continue. Both will retain their names in the market place," he said.
Invesco said it would fund the merger with the issue of 290 million new shares to existing holders of AIM shares. These would be valued at approximately $1.1 billion. AIM shareholders will own around 45 percent of the enlarged group and be subject to restrictions on selling the shares.
McCullough said the merger, which is conditional on approval by both Invesco and AIM shareholders and other approvals, would be non-dilutive and would not have any cost savings built-in. However, there would be cost savings in the future, he said.
The merger is not expected to be completed before February.
McCullough also said the $500 million needed to fund the merger would come in the form of cash and debt, with a one-for-five rights offering on the cards. This would involve issuing roughly 50 million new shares, he said.
McCullough said the cost of the merger was not excessive. "If you look at it on the basis of funds under management, it (the cost) is less than three percent," he said.
"There's no question that it is a lot of money, but we view this as a long-term investment for both of us," he said. This long-term commitment was underlined by the fact that almost 50 percent of the combined shares would be held by management.
Invesco had been approached by a number of banks offering it loans, with the debt element being placed with them. Both companies were currently "largely debt free," he said.
The merger presented an enormous number of synergies, with the two companies using different distribution channels and approaches. McCullough said he did not forsee any culture clash between the two.
There would be no change in their differing approaches, with Invesco continuing to be a "no-load" house, selling products direct to the customer, and AIM making its sales through intermediaries.
Both companies were "really active managers" and would stay that way rather than moving to passive management, McCullough said, adding that Invesco's global infrastructure presented a major opportunity.
He denied the heavy exposure to the U.S. would hinder Invesco from making the most of opportunities in other parts of the world. "We would like nothing better than to find opportunities in Asia and Europe," he said.
The merger would enhance the group's strength in the U.S., increasing the amount of its business there from between 85 and 90 percent to around 95 percent.
Investors, who last week helped drive the Toronto Stock Exchange to its 50th record close this year, are unlikely to cool on Canadian stocks any time soon, attracted by Canada's improving economic fundamentals.
"Canada really has begun to address its deficit problems with rather Calvinistic virtue and I think this is going to help that market and also tend to focus other investors on the opportunities in Canada," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer &amp; Co Inc in New York.  
Toronto's key 300 Composite Index set its 50th record high close last Thursday, the most in a single year since Canada's largest stock exchange began tracking such figures. The previous record was 45 record closes for all of 1987.
The 300 index has risen almost 19 percent this year.
After the stock market crash of October 19, 1987, Toronto posted no record closes from 1988 through 1992.
But analysts said Toronto's latest bull run will likely extend to mid-1997.
"I don't think the run in the Canadian market is over by any means," said Metz.  
"There's such a rosy view out there on Canada," said HSBC James Capel Canada strategist Bob Boaz.
"Inflation is low. The federal deficits are coming down, especially in relation to GDP (gross domestic product). Current account surpluses are happening. The political situation (Quebec separatism) has faded away and that has buoyed the Canadian dollar," Boaz said.
Canada's inflation rate is now about 1.4 percent, while the federal government has forecast its yearly borrowing requirements will drop to zero in 1998/99 from C$28.6 billion in 1995/96.  
Booming exports have pushed Canada's current account to a surplus for the first time since 1984.
Political uncertainty has also waned after last year's narrow loss by separatists in a referendum on independence for the French-speaking province of Quebec.
On Friday, Canada's dollar strengthened to the US$0.75 mark for the first time in a year.  
"I think Canada's in a different situation" than in 1987, Metz said. "We're on the early stages of what I would call a boomlet worldwide, which is going to result in I think strengthening industrial and commodity prices, which I think are going to be very bullish for Canada."
"I'm still tremendously bullish on stocks," said Boaz, who does not rule out the index hitting 6500 points by mid-1997.
The 300 index closed at 5591.31 on Friday, down 7.51 points.
MCI Communications Corp., embracing merger partner British Telecommunications Plc  in a $20 billion match, is growing increasingly distant toward media tycoon Rupert Murdoch and their joint offspring.
At the same time, BT and MCI are seeking Asian telecom partners for Concert, their new global company.
MCI said on Sunday it would cut its stake in a U.S. satellite joint venture with Murdoch's News Corp from 50 percent to 20 percent.
MCI Chief Executive Bert Roberts told Reuters that no major new launches were expected from the $400 million media joint venture with Murdoch's News Corp, and that MCI would sell to Murdoch a $700 million satellite license if it could.
MCI has a stake of just under 9 percent in News Corp, which it bought for $1.35 billion, and has an option to splash out an extra $1 billion to take this to 13.5 percent.
"It is unlikely you will see us increasing our investment (in News Corp)" Roberts told Reuters in an interview. He said that News Corp was aware of MCI's position.
This is all a world away from the first flush of enthusiasm when Murdoch and Roberts announced a broad-ranging alliance in May 1995.
The plan was to take the Australian magnate's publishing and television expertise and put it together with MCI's communications network and marketing skill, especially in the emerging market of the Internet.
But so far, the venture has produced some duds.
MCI's electronic malls on the Internet are now closed, and News Corp's ideas of producing supermarket tabloids to lure middle-aged readers to the Internet have been shelved.
Low-level cross-promotion, like advertising MCI calling cards in Murdoch's U.S. TV Guide, have continued.
The crux of the problem, analysts say, is that there never was much overlap between MCI's blue-chip business clients and Murdoch's blue-collar sports and publishing expertise.
"BT/MCI is going after the High Street, not Melrose Place," said Danny Briere, an industry analyst at consultancy Telechoice.
The satellite offspring American Sky Broadcasting (ASkyB) has been a problem child, expensive and slow to develop in comparison with some rivals.
In January, MCI and News Corp said they would offer digital television direct to the home across the U.S. market within two years, using the $700 million license MCI won in an auction.
But the same month, AT&amp;T announced an alliance with General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Electronics  DirecTV, a company that was already offering digital satellite services, and which now has two million subscribers.
MCI is clearly taking a second look.
"We would be willing, consistent with our lowering our investment position (in ASkyB), to move those to News Corp. That will take FCC approval," Roberts said.
BT Chairman Sir Iain Vallance said he expected to look hard for new partners to fill out the global telecommunications alliance in Asia.
"I think we will be more attractive to Asian partners than we would had we stayed separate," Vallance told Reuters in an interview. He declined to say which companies he had his eye on, but sources close to the company say Japan's NTT Corp. is considered the real prize.
Vallance said any partner would tie up closely to the business venture first.
"I think it is more likely that, in the first instance, we would invite partnership in Concert Communications Services rather than the parent itself," he said.
The source said that Concert would rely on chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield and his close links to the Japanese market to lure NTT aboard. Bonfield is a former head of ICL, a British computer company majority owned by Fujitsu Ltd. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1610
Investors on both sides of the Atlantic applauded the planned $20 billion merger of British Telecom Plc and MCI Communications of the United States Monday, boosting their shares in stock market trading.
British, European and U.S. regulators will subject the deal to close scrutiny amid strong opposition to it from rivals, including American long-distance market leader AT&amp;T Corp.
British Telecom, or BT, as it is known, said it was optimistic that the European Commission would clear the largest cross-border takeover deal in history, which will create one of the largest groups in the rapidly expanding global telecommunications sector.
Britain's communications industry regulatory agency said it was studying the details of the merger and it was too early to pass judgment.
BT Chief Executive Sir Peter Bonfield has said it could take a year to clear all the regulatory hurdles.
BT's shares powered 32-1/2 pence higher to 383 1/2p -- adding around two billion pounds ($3.3 billion) to the company's market value on huge trading volume of over 40 million shares.
MCI gained $1.25 to $31.50 in early trading on Nasdaq, while AT&amp;T fell $1.125 to $33.50 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Despite the large cost of the deal to British Telecom -- it will be the biggest-ever acquisition by a British firm -- the deal is seen as having a compelling industrial logic, linking leading phone companies on both sides of the Atlantic.
For BT shareholders the deal is also being sugared with a promise of a special one-time 35p dividend payout and a higher rate of general dividend increases in the future.
"It is positive for BT shareholders and positive for the (telecoms) sector," said Jim McCafferty, analyst at ABN AMRO Hoare Govett.
For customers, the deal promises better service and lower international calling charges, while for businesses it means a company that can support them wherever they are.
The merged company will be called Concert Plc. It will be the second-largest international carrier after AT&amp;T.
The deal values all of Washington, D.C.-based MCI at just over $25 billion. Since British Telecom already owns 20 percent of MCI, it will issue Concert stock and cash worth $20.1 billion for the remaining 80 percent. Holders of MCI stock will control a third of the stock in the combined company.
Larry Stone, BT's head of EU affairs, told Reuters he hoped the deal would be dealt with under the EU's fast-track merger rules and said he did not anticipate any anti-trust problems because the companies "operate in competitive markets."
Analysts expect British Telecom and MCI to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.
But while seeking an Asian partner, MCI appears to be putting another one on a backburner.
MCI is to cut its stake in a U.S. satellite television venture with media tycoon Rupert Murdoch to 20 percent from 50 percent, and has said it will probably not increase its stake in Murdoch's News Corp as originally expected.
MCI paid $1.35 billion for a stake of just under 9 percent, and could increase it to 13 percent with another $1 billion investment.
British Biotech Plc published further evidence on Monday that its cancer drug Marimastat worked, but analysts said there was still a long way to go before its potential as a blockbuster product can be confirmed.
Shares in the company slipped back after its keenly-awaited announcement appeared to provide comfort for both bulls and bears on Marimastat, a new class of cancer drug which some predict could one day have sales of $4 billion a year.
The stock was down 14 1/2 pence at 217 pence in early afternoon trading. But analysts noted that it rose sharply last week ahead of publication, while the decision by Morgan Grenfell to sell a sizeable chunk of its holding on October 29 had mopped up much of the buying interest in advance.
Oxford-based British Biotech used a cancer conference in Vienna to make a number of presentations on trials of the drug in gastric, colo-rectal, ovarian and pancreatic cancer.
It said the studies, based on cancer patients who continued taking the drug after the 28-day period needed for Phase II trials, confirmed Marimastat's ability to reduce the rate of rise of cancer antigens, one measure of how much cancer is present in the body. It also provided evidence of succcess in gastric cancer, where a large scale trial is now underway.
Some analysts said there was little new in the statement, which was largely a confirmation of Phase II, or intermediate stage, data published in May.
"Those who were sceptical in May will remain sceptical and those who were bullish in May will remain bullish," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
Finance director James Noble said the company had been deliberately cautious in its comments to avoid raising false hopes among cancer sufferers. Nevertheless he told Reuters that "In many ways I think this is the most impressive data since the company was floated.
One of the bulls, Greig Middleton analyst John Savin, said the real news was hidden in presentations made by doctors at the Vienna conference. He said that despite the "mishmash" of data from the trials, which covered 381 patients, there was "very compelling" evidence that Marimastat had improved chances of survival.
"On this information today we can say that...37 percent (of patients) had a real overall response which improved their survival chance significantly," Savin said.
However, others expressed disappointment that British Biotech failed to provide more detailed analysis of side effects caused by Marimastat. British Bitoech confirmed that it caused joint pain, mainly in the arm and shoulder, with around 30 percent of patients affected after three to five months.
Yamaichi International analyst Erling Refsum said the side effect profile will be crucial to Marimastat's potential. "Drugs become top sellers because of their side effect profile rather than because of their efficacy profile," he said.
Noble played down concerns about side effects, saying "they are not a serious problem. They are reversible." He said patients who suffer badly will be able to interrupt their treatment from time to time without any adverse impact.
Analysts pointed out that no real estimate of just how big Marimastat will be could be made until Phase III trials were completed. This means investors will have to wait until 1998 at the very earliest for hard evidence that their optimism about Marimastat and British Biotech is well founded.
-- London Newsroom +44 71 542 7717
Family controlled food and retailing group Associated British Foods reported a 15 percent increase in its full year profits on Monday, but chairman Garry Weston sounded a wary note when asked about the year ahead.
"I never play hostage to fortune. I've always been cautious," said Weston in an interview. "It's a very bad time to forecast anything with two elections coming up -- in the United States and Britian. We have no idea how they will impact on us."  
ABF posted pretax profits of 430 million pounds ($704.1 million) for the year ended September 14 whereas most stockmarket forecasts had centred on 415 million.
Worldwide sales were up 17 percent to 5.707 billion. Profits were driven by an especially strong performance from the company's retail operations in Britain and Ireland. Operating profits rose 25 percent to 69 million, with the company's supermarkets in Ireland further increasing their market share.
Primark, the women's textile chain, included results from One Up stores bought from Storehouse last year.  
"We got the fashion right. Primark has been refurbished and that improved its buying power and gave it more notice on the high street." In the second half Primark was more in tune with public demand, said Weston.
ABF's food manufacturing and processing operations in Britain showed an 8.0 percent sales growth to 3.11 billion pounds and a 12 percent profits increase to 282 million.
However, operating profits from British Sugar fell to 183 million. British Sugar sales are limited by European community quotas and the renewed strength of the pound made imports from mainland Europe look cheaper in the second half.  
AFB's profits from its Australia and New Zealand operations increased by 20 percent to 38 million.
AC Humko, acquired from Kraft Foods in September 1995, chipped in its first full year of profits to ABF's north American business to help turn a 3.0 million loss in 1995 to a six million stg profit.
Analysts were surprised by the stronger than expected performance from ABF's milling and baking business where margins improved strongly. ABF owns the Twining group of companies, Burtons Biscuits, Allied Bakeries and an animal feed business.  
"They were good numbers a bit ahead of our figures, but it will be hard to match that in the current year," said Michael Bourke, analyst at Panmure Gordon. "The green pound rate is likely to mean a reduction in British Sugar profits and inflation in food prices looks very subdued," he said.
ABF shares rose 8p to 426p on the news.
Net cash held by the company rose by 196 million to 797 million at September 14, after spending 242 million on its assets and acquisitions during the year.
The company is keen to expand in the Far East and although ABF's history is one of expansion by organic growth if the oppurtunity arises it will make acquisitions, said Weston.
"We have been picking up acquisitions and if opportunities come along for something big then we will take it," he said.
During the year ABF acquired or formed businesses in Norway, Indonesia, China and the United States. ($1=.6107 Pound)
British Telecommunications' shares, which surged on Monday after weekend confirmation that the telecoms giant had merged with MCI of the U.S., should be valued at around four pounds each, analysts said on Monday.
News of the biggest trans-Atlantic deal in history, linking Britain's dominant telecoms company with America's second largest international carrier, has helped instititions on this side of the Atlantic reassess BT's growth prospects.
By 1306 GMT, almost 56 million shares had exchanged hands as the stock surged 28.5p to 379.5 pence down from an earlier 386p.  
"This deal will force people to look at BT in a new light; look at the international operations; look at the international alliances in Europe; to look at what they could be doing with the Internet because MCI is a big player there," said one analyst who asked to be named.
"All these much higher growth and much more exciting elements of BT in which the company has been quietly building value will come much more the fore," he added, noting that he was pitching the stock's true value at nearer 4.30 pounds.  
Analysts were split on how much of the share price rise was attributable to the $20 billion MCI merger, which included a 2.2 billion stg special dividend for BT shareholders.
But they said the market had been valuing the 22.6 billion stg group more as a UK utility, with 60 percent of its revenues governed by a regulatory price cap. However, having lined up six European joint-ventures, BT's share of the population in Europe for which they will have a licence could rise to 90 million.  
"In one year's time, only 15 percent of BT's revenues will be covered by a price cap. And, with their European operations getting off the ground, they will have a very substantial business in international markets," the analyst added.
Another analyst said that news of the special dividend alone had helped lift BT's shares by as much as 22 pence. Analysts have welcomed the move by BT, which has negligible gearing, to increase borrowing to make it more capital efficient.
"I think its a four-pound stock," he said. "The market did want to see capital restructuring."
The deal helps lift BT's gearing to around 65 percent.  
"The majority of the share price rise is a function of what is happening to the balance sheet rather than it being an indication that MCI was the right thing to buy," he added.
One analyst at brokers Deutsche Morgan Grenfell said that the MCI deal yielded a leverage benefit of about 0.4-0.5 percentage points off the weighted average cost of capital through BT being more highly geared.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7987
British property company Greycoat Plc, under fire from a group of shareholders calling for it to be broken up, said on Monday it was confident of getting the support of its institutional shareholders in rejecting the plan.
"I would be very surprised if they (Greycoat's institutional shareholders) would come down on the side of a closing down sale," Greycoat's chief executive Peter Thornton told Reuters.
Thornton said he believed the liquidation proposal by the UK Active Value Fund, which will be put to shareholders in 10-days time, was "ill-conceived and fails to secure shareholder value".  
Earlier Greycoat wrote to its shareholders urging them to reject the resolution, put forward by rebel shareholder Brian Myerson, at an extraordinary general meeting on November 14.
Myerson's Active Value Advisors Ltd (AVA) advises the UK Active Value Fund and is expected to put out its own response to the statement later today.
Last month Myerson said it was time to "unlock the value of Greycoat" as the company's shares stood at a 23 percent discount to the forecast net asset value for 1997.
He said there was "considerable support" for the proposal to dispose of Greycoat's assets and enhance shareholder value.  
Greycoat, which focuses on central London office developments, earlier announced a rise in interim pre-tax profits to 3.8 million stg and predicted a final dividend of 1.2 pence per share.
Thornton said the results showed the company was having a very good year, adding it was well placed to take advantage of favourable investor sentiment on the central London property market. "The whole market is moving in our direction," he said.
The share discount to net asset value had been worsened by the fact that UKAV held 10 percent of the shares and this was overhanging the market, he added.  
Martin Poole, Greycoat's finance director, said the company had got its long-term debt in place, adding that its lender banks were not in any way ruffled by the current uncertainty.
"The novelty has worn off from the bank's point of view," Poole told Reuters. To get rid of the bank debt, which would be required by any liquidation plans, would cost "roughly 10 million stg", he added.
Poole said he expected good growth in the dividend in the medium term, in line with the group's policy of progressively increasing it. "There is no reason why we shouldn't continue at the higher rate of profit," he said.  
While Greycoat does not intend to use further resources on development sites, it is likely to use the cash generated by the sale of its Buckingham Palace Road property for investment.
Thornton said discussions were already underway with several parties, but he stressed the company would not pay over the odds, would not compromise on what it wanted and would not buy anything in the market.
Rather than concentrating on a single asset, there would be two or three purchases or "possibly more". Greycoat had around 50 million stg to spend and this would be geared up to around 50 million stg cash and the same amount of debt, Thornton added.
-- London Newsroom ++ 44 171 542 7719
Workers at a key General Motors Corp. metal stamping plant in Indianapolis began returning to work on Sunday after ratifying a deal to end a five-day strike that threatened to paralyze most of the automaker's light truck production.
But a similar settlement eluded negotiators at GM's Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant, where a strike over local issues by 4,800 workers entered its sixth day. Janesville, which builds GM's popular Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport/utility vehicles, is one of the automaker's most profitable factories.
The deal for 2,750 workers in Indianapolis, which came hours after GM and the UAW announced a tentative agreement for a new national labor contract early Saturday morning, calls for the hiring of 200 new workers at the plant.
Due to strong demand for GM's trucks, the plant has been working heavy overtime, which has put a strain on workers, causing them to seek relief.
GM also dropped its plans to change job classifications and seniority rules for skilled trades workers and will pay thousands of dollars to workers to settle grievances.
"I regret we did have to call a strike here," said UAW regional director Ron Gettlefinger in Indianapolis. "I'm hoping other General Motors plants I'm responsible for will heed the seriousness of local agreements."
The Indianapolis strike shut off shipments of fenders, doors,hoods and other steel body panels to nine of GM's North American light truck assembly plants. By the weekend, strike-caused parts shortages forced GM to shut down factories in Fort Wayne, Ind., Shreveport, La., Moraine, Ohio and Linden, N.J.
Including the strikers at Janesville and Indianapolis, the UAW walkouts had idled over 19,000 workers, in addition to 18,958 GM workers still on layoff because of lingering parts shortages from a three-week Canadian Auto Workers strike, which ended Oct. 23.
UAW officials said stamping operations would resume Sunday night, with the plant back to full production by Monday. But that may not prove soon enough to keep other plants from running out of parts, including GM's full-size pickup truck plant in Pontiac, Mich., which employs nearly 6,000 people.
Other plants that receive parts from Indianapolis are located in Flint, Mich.; Oshawa, Ontario; and Silao, Mexico.
On Saturday, UAW President Stephen Yokich put GM on notice that some of the automaker's GM's 123 other locals may go on strike over lack of progress in local negotiations.
A clearer picture of the UAW-GM national agreement, which covers some 215,000 U.S. hourly workers, began to emerge Sunday. The contract meets the pattern set by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. on most major issues, including a guarantee that GM will maintain jobs for 95 percent of its current hourly workforce.
But the pact contains exceptions that will allow GM to sell some unprofitable parts plants, including a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich.
The pact also is believed to contain complicated formulas that allow GM to shrink employment in certain businesses as workers retire.
"On the surface, it looks as though as it ought to be viewed by the investor community in a positive light." said Lehman Brothers auto analyst Joseph Phillippi. "GM's primary focus was to gain the ability to ride the attrition curve."
On economics, the pact gives wokers a $2,000 bonus in the first year of the contract, followed by 2 percent raises in the second and third years of the contract. It also provides generous gains in pension benefits, including the elimination of a cap on outside earnings for retirees, which is viewed as a major incentive for older workers to leave the company.
Like Ford and Chrysler, GM will be able to trim jobs when it makes productivity improvements, and can pay workers in new auto parts businesses that it enters a lower wage than the standard $19 an hour paid by the Big Three.
GM has been trying to shed parts businesses as it tries to catch up to Chrysler's and Ford's efficiency levels. But the contract probably will not allow GM to shrink employment as much as it would like, said Eugene Jennings, a retired Michigan State University professor of management who is close to Detroit's Big Three automakers.
"GM is not going to get the competitive lift from labor in this contract," he said.
British Telecom and MCI Communications on Sunday announced a $20 billion merger, using the largest cross-border takeover deal in history to spawn a global telecommunications powerhouse.
The merged company, to be called Concert Plc, creates the world's second-largest telecommunications group, based on market capitalisation, behind Japan's NTT Corp.
Valued at $54 billion based on Friday's closing stock prices, Concert is neck-and-neck with U.S. long-distance leader AT&amp;T Corp., which is MCI's arch-rival in the super-competitive U.S. market.
For customers, the deal promises better service and lower international calling charges, while for businesses it means a company that can support them wherever they are. For for shareholders, it means faster earnings growth, analysts said.
"This is not a pebble we're throwing onto a quiet pool. It is a big rock, and it's going to make a big splash," Sir Iain Vallance, chairman of British Telecommunications Plc, told a news conference in New York.
The deal values all of Washington,D.C.-based MCI at a total $25.2 billion. But as British Telecom already owns 20 percent, it will issue Concert stock and cash worth $20.1 billion for the 80 percent it does not own. Holders of this MCI stake will thus control 33 percent of the stock in the combined company.
Because the companies have already worked together for three years, they expect the merged company to function well.
"Mergers don't always work, but this one will," Vallance added.
AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a financially muscular enlarged rival, said it was confident any MCI/British Telecom deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government and called on both U.S. and European regulators to condition approval of the deal on a further freeing of competition in British Telecom's home market.
Already strong in long distance, MCI hopes to use BT's service and back-up expertise, plus plenty of cash, to help take a big chunk of the $100 billion a year U.S. local calling market from the regional Bells.
That market is expected to gradually open to competition following legislation earlier this year. Since 1984 it had been the monopoly of the seven regional Bells.
MCI Chief Executive Bert Roberts said he was confident the combination with British Telecom would win the approval of federal regulators, noting that "the U.K. is the most competitive telecommunications market in the world."
He added that the deal would result in lower expenditures for both companies because "costs will be reduced by building networks once, not twice." The companies expect to save $1.5 billion in costs over five years.
Employees, usually tense during mergers, can relax.
"Minimal job cuts, that is the joy of this. MCI will operate in the Americas, and BT will operate in the U.K and the rest of the world," Vallance told Reuters.
Concert Plc would be one of the world's largest telecommunications companies, with 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
"The complementary strengths and skills of BT and MCI will enable Concert to take full advantage of the great opportunities provided by the forthcoming liberalisation of the telecommunications market in the U.S. and Europe," said Vallance.
Under the terms of the agreement, which has yet to be approved by regulatory authorities on either side of the Atlantic, MCI shareholders would receive 0.54 new American Depositary Shares in the new combined group for every MCI share. Each Concert ADS is equivalent to one British Telecom American Depositary Share and $6 cash.
British Telecom's ADSs closed at $55.50 in New York on Friday, giving a value of $30 per MCI share, plus $6 in cash per share before the effect of a buyback by British Telecom that is part of the deal, MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine told Reuters.
British Telecom said Concert will buy back up to 10 percent of its shares after the deal closes. The maximum buyback would increase the value of the deal to MCI shareholders to $39.60 per MCI share. MCI's stock closed Friday at $30.25 on Nasdaq.
The new company, incorporated in Britain, would have headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the British Telecom and MCI brand names.
British Telecom has been looking for a major acquisition since its proposed merger with British rival Cable and Wireless failed in May. It had been keen to forge that deal because it would have given it access to the lucrative Asian telecoms market -- the world's fastest-growing market.
Analysts now expect British Telecom and MCI to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.
But while seeking an Asian partner, MCI is putting another one on a backburner.
MCI is to cut its stake in a U.S. satellite venture with Australian media tycoon Rupert Murdoch to 20 percent from 50 percent, and will not increase its stake in Murdoch's News Corp as originally expected.
"It is unlikely you will see us increasing our investment (in News Corp)," Roberts told Reuters.
MCI paid $1.35 billion for a stake of just under 9 percent, and could increase it to 13 percent with another $1 billion investment.
Roberts added that if U.S. regulatory permission could be obtained, he may even sell the $700 million license that goes with the U.S. direct-to-home broadcast satellite to Murdoch.
Family controlled food and retailing group Associated British Foods reported a 15 percent incrase in its full year profits on Monday, but chairman Garry Weston sounded a wary note when asked about the year ahead.
"I never play hostage to fortune. I've always been cautious," said Weston in an interview. "It's a very bad time to forecast anything with two elections coming up -- in the United States and Britian. We have no idea how they will impact on us."
ABF posted pretax profits of 430 million pounds ($704.1 million) for the year ended September 14 whereas most stockmarket forecasts had centred on 415 million.
Worldwide sales were up 17 percent to 5.707 billion. Profits were driven by an especially strong performance from the company's retail operations in Britain and Ireland. Operating profits rose 25 percent to 69 million, with the company's supermarkets in Ireland further increasing their market share.
Primark, the women's textile chain, included results from One Up stores bought from Storehouse last year.
"We got the fashion right. Primark has been refurbished and that improved its buying power and gave it more notice on the high street." In the second half Primark was more in tune with public demand, said Weston.
ABF's food manufacturing and processing operations in Britain showed an 8.0 percent sales growth to 3.11 billion pounds and a 12 percent profits increase to 282 million.
However, operating profits from British Sugar fell to 183 million. British Sugar sales are limited by European community quotas and the renewed strength of the pound made imports from mainland Europe look cheaper in the second half.
AFB's profits from its Australia and New Zealand operations increased by 20 percent to 38 million.
AC Humko, acquired from Kraft Foods in September 1995, chipped in its first full year of profits to ABF's north American business to help turn a 3.0 million loss in 1995 to a six million stg profit.
Analysts were surprised by the stronger than expected performance from ABF's milling and baking business where margins improved strongly. ABF owns the Twining group of companies, Burtons Biscuits, Allied Bakeries and an animal feed business.
"They were good numbers a bit ahead of our figures, but it will be hard to match that in the current year," said Michael Bourke, analyst at Panmure Gordon. "The green pound rate is likely to mean a reduction in British Sugar profits and inflation in food prices looks very subdued," he said.
ABF shares rose 8p to 426p on the news.
Net cash held by the company rose by 196 million to 797 million at September 14, after spending 242 million on its assets and acquisitions during the year.
The company is keen to expand in the Far East and although ABF's history is one of expansion by organic growth if the oppurtunity arises it will make acquisitions, said Weston.
"We have been picking up acquisitions and if opportunities come along for something big then we will take it," he said.
During the year ABF acquired or formed businesses in Norway, Indonesia, China and the United States. ($1=.6107 Pound)
Anglo-Dutch food-to-detergent group Unilever Plc , reporting third quarter results next Friday, is likely to have suffered from restructuring costs for its North American industrial cleaning business Diversey and from weak ice cream sales in a drab European summer, analysts said.
Diversey, acquired in January from Molson for 360 million stg, was merged with Lever Industrial in October to form a combined business with annual turnover of 1.15 billion stg and a workforce of 13,000 in 60 different countries.
Analysts predict third quarter pretax profits in a range of 760 to 820 million, against 786 million stg last time.
The wide range reflects uncertainty about the size of redundancy payments and closures needed to reshape Diversey.
Charges for Diversey could range from 15-30 million stg, with a further 20 million needed for restructuring other Unilever businesses.
But the interim dividend, paid in the third quarter, is forecast to rise sharply as a result of changes to dividend policy announced at the full year.
Analysts expect a 10.3p dividend payout under a new policy whereby 35 percent of the previous year's total dividend would be paid in the stronger of either Dutch guilder or sterling so far this year. A 10.3p payout would represent a 46 percent increase on the previous half-year's 7.05p.
For the nine month period analysts are forecasting pretax profits of about 1.9 billion pounds.
"European ice cream sales are not going to have the special benefit they had in 1995 or 1994," said John Campbell, analyst at Paribas.
"European economies are generally weak, and German consumption if anyhing lower because of the tough economic climate there," he added.
Michael Bourke at Panmure Gordon saw three factors behind the downturn. "The exceptional charge will be a bit higher, perhaps about 40 million compared with 20 million the year before, and ice cream sales in the third quarter will have been influenced a lot by the summer weather."
"Last but not least is the currency factor, with the majority of Unilever profits in US dollars and the recent weakness in the dollar clearly having an impact."
The consensus forecast EPS for 1996, taken from 24 brokers polled by Reuters, is 84.40p, rising to 92.30p in 1997. Six brokers downgraded their 1996 EPS forecast in October.
Unilever's return on equity is currently running at 27.3 percent, against 66.57 percent for Unigate, the highest in the FTSE all-share food manufacturing sector.
The company's shares reached a high of 1412 pence for the year in mid-September before closing down at 1283 on Friday.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd is likely to benefit from the planned US$20 billion merger of MCI Communications Corp and British Telecommunications Plc, Australian media analysts said on Monday.
News Corp, which already has a wide-ranging partnership with MCI, would strengthen its global media interests on the coat-tails of the creation of the world's second largest telecommunications group, the analysts said.
"It means they'll be in bed with a bigger, more powerful global telephony group," one senior Sydney media analyst said.
Analysts also said the BT-MCI merger would stabilise New Corp's partnership with MCI, which had seemed increasingly strained in recent months.
"It seems that MCI and News haven't been getting on lately, whereas News and BT have been getting on a lot better," said the Sydney analyst.
The prospect of MCI selling its nine percent stake in News Corp over the next year had suppressed News Corp's shares last month.
"There was a view that MCI wasn't real happy with it (the partnership) and may sell out, but now nothing's going to happen for 12 months at least," said another Sydney analyst.
"The implications for News are quite positive."
A Melbourne analyst said some in the market were a bit worried that MCI was preparing to sell down its stake over the next 12 months. "The fact that BT may combine with MCI reduces that risk for now at least," one analyst said.
MCI and News Corp announced a broad alliance in May 1995, under which MCI bought a nine percent stake in News for US$1.35 billion and acquired an option to increase that stake to 13.5 percent. They agreed, among other things, to jointly set up an American satellite television operation -- ASkyB.
But progress with ASkyB has been slow and other smaller joint ventures have failed to fire. Australian analysts said they would remain cautious towards ASkyB, given bearish comments on Sunday by MCI. MCI announced that it would cut its stake in ASkyB to 20 percent from 50 percent.
Analysts said this was not surprising as News Corp and MCI had said recently they wanted new partners in the venture.
MCI Chief Executive Bert Roberts told Reuters on Sunday that no major new launches were expected from the venture with News Corp and that MCI wanted to sell a US$700 million satellite license to News.
He also said MCI was unlikely to take up its option to increase its stake in News, a comment seen by analysts as symptomatic of Roberts' increasing unhappiness with the deal.
Analysts also warned there was a potential regulatory block to links between News, its 40 percent owned BSkyB Plc, and BT.
"There's an outside risk that British regulatory bodies could try and block the News-BSkyB-BT side of it," said a BT analyst.
Other analysts said the dilution involved, with BT owning nine percent of a 40 percent stake in BSkyB, would assuage regulatory concerns. The likely election of a British Labour government also reduced that risk.
"They're banking on (Labour leader) Tony Blair winning government and deregulating cross media rules in the United Kingdom," said another Sydney analyst.
However, another analyst pointed to the recent banning by British regulator Oftel of a joint marketing campaign between BT and BSkyB as a sign of the rocky road ahead for News and BT.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Institutional investor National Mutual Holdings Ltd has arranged to meet St George Bank Ltd to discuss its merger with Advance Bank Australia Ltd in a sign of growing disquiet over the deal.
National Mutual's funds management arm, a top-20 shareholder in St George, wants to discuss the bank's decision not to put the merger proposal to a shareholders' vote.  
"We are coming close to having a position on that and we are meeting shortly with St George and we will make some decision at the end of the meeting," said National Mutual Funds Management Ltd's domestic equity investments manager, Paul Jennings.
He declined to comment further but market sources said on Monday that National Mutual and at least one other institution were lobbying St George to reverse it decision not to seek shareholder approval for the A$2.65 billion merger.
"Three institutions ... are a little bit up in arms about it and would like to see a meeting," a broker said.  
National Australia Bank Ltd, itself seen as a predator in Australia's rapidly consolidating banking sector, has already said it is disappointed at St George's decision, which has been approved by the Australian Stock Exchange.
"We are disappointed there would not be a shareholders' meeting and we were concerned about the level of information out there about a merger proposal," NAB spokesman David Upton said.
"Given there hasn't been any details of the merger released as yet, we thought it would be important to have a meeting to give shareholders an opportunity to discuss it and find out more," Upton said.  
He declined to comment when asked about a newspaper comment that NAB might have few legal options to oppose the bid.
"We simply wanted to make known that we were disappointed that there wouldn't be a meeting," he said.
St George's scrip and cash offer valued each Advance Bank share at A$7.30 -- or nearly three times net asset backing.
The Australian Shareholders' Association, representing small shareholders, said it had met St George last Friday over the question of a shareholders' meeting.
"We are not at all happy," association executive officer Tony McLean told Reuters.  
"The principle is that it's a very significant deal for the bank and we believe that shareholders should be involved in approving it," he added.
He declined to comment on his talks with St George but said: "There will be an exchange of information between ourselves and the bank." McLean declined to elaborate.
Asked if an extraordinary general meeting could be called to pressure St George into reversing its decision, he said: "I guess that's a possibility."
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1421
Appliance and building products manufacturer Email Ltd reported a lower half year net profit and dividend on Monday but forecast that recent restructuring and a seasonal lift would boost profits in the second half.
Email said the environment for industrial activities remained difficult and recent economic forecasts had deferred the timing of an upturn in building sector.  
"Nevertheless, the significant improvements in the company's pre-tax operating profits flowing from restructuring across the past 12 months, are expected to continue in the second half," the company said in a statement accompanying half year results.
"As well there should be the normal seasonal lift in sales and margins, leading to a second half profit well ahead of the first half," it said.
Earlier Email reported a pre-abnormal net profit of A$27.26 million for the first half to September 30, up from A$24.83 million the previous corresponding half a year earlier.  
Net profit however fell to A$23.85 million from A$26.61 million the previous year, due largely to abnormal losses of A$3.41 million incurred in restructuring and reducing overheads. Email also cut its interim dividend to eight cents from 11.5 a year earlier, saying it had realigned dividends to reflect the stronger second half year in the light of continuing uncertainty about the economy.
Email Managing Director John Hanna later told Reuters Email expected pre-tax profits for the second half of the 1996/97 year would also be above those in the second half of 1995/96.  
"We are expecting in the second half that we would have pre-tax operating profits higher than last year," Hanna said.
"We should also have the second half seasonal lift."
He said Email was pleased that it achieved profit growth in its building products and major appliances divisions despite lower sales.
Analysts said the result was within expectations and was largely unsurprising, even with the dividend cut.
"It's still a high payout ratio," said one Sydney analyst said of the dividend, noting that the final dividend was likely to be maintained.  
Email's share price was unchanged at A$3.55 at 1.10 p.m. (0210 GMT) on light volumes.
Hanna said there could begin to be an upturn in the housing industry at the beginning of 1997, but that this would take some time to flow through to Email's business because its products were installed late in the building process.
"If it (the upturn) was early 1997, then it (the resulting flow-on) would be in mid-1997," he said.
But this flow-on effect would then have an immediate effect on Email's bottom line because of the recent restructuring which had reduced overheads.  
"As there's an upturn, we should get that immediately and a lot of that will go to the bottom line immediately," Hanna said.
He also said Email may increase its 20 percent stake in British electricity meter maker Ampy Automation Digilog Ltd.
"There may be an opportunity to lift that stake in the future," Hanna said. He said Email remained on the lookout for further acquisitions.
"They (any further acquisitions) would have to be in existing core areas ... but I don't think we have anything directly in line at the moment," he said.
-- Bernard Hickey 61-2 9373-1812
China's economic growth is likely to accelerate in 1997 as Beijing pumps up its economy before a crucial Communist Party congress that may tackle nagging reform problems, state media said.
Political factors were likely to be a significant factor in a possible renewed boom next year in one of the world's fastest growing economies, the China Daily Business Weekly quoted Xu Hongyuan of the State Information Centre as saying on Sunday.
However, Xu also warned that the higher growth could see the spin-off of a renewed burst of inflation and warned of rising joblessness, giving one of the most pessimistic unemployment forecasts to be published openly in China.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1997 could reach 8,178 billion yuan ($985 billion), growing by 10.5 percent compared with an anticipated 9.6-9.7 percent increase this year, the newspaper quoted Xu as saying.
GDP grew by 10.2 percent in 1995 and Beijing's communist rulers have been trying to cool the rate slightly amid signs the economy was threatening to overheat. China has set a goal of eight percent average growth for the 1996-2000 Ninth Five-Year Plan.
Xu linked his higher growth forecast to the five-yearly Communist Party congress, set for late in 1997, which he said was expected to take some difficult decisions to eradicate the low economic efficiency and operational losses plaguing thousands of lumbering state enterprises.
"These political factors, if the government makes use of them smoothly, will provide strong backing to national economic performance in 1997," the newspaper said, quoting Xu.
Diplomats and western economists have said Beijing may try to revive an economic boom in 1997 in the run-up to the party congress as part of a push to bolster the standing of the current leadership before a meeting when personnel reshuffles are a key issue.
Xu forecast retail price inflation to speed up slightly in 1997 to about eight percent from an expected seven percent this year. Inflation was 14.8 percent last year, down from a communist-era high of 21.7 percent in 1994.
Official media have been rife with speculation that China may again trim interest rates after two cuts already this year but central bank officials insist Beijing has no plans to do anything more than "appropriately" adjust a three-year-old tight monetary policy.
Xu said foreign trade was expected to make a strong recovery after exports slumped in the first few months of this year, especially as the government completes repayment of billions of dollars of export rebates to exporters.
He forecast exports to reach $171.5 billion in 1997, up 14.1 percent from 1996.
Xu urged a further cut in import tariffs next year, a move that Beijing has promised and which could lubricate China's bid to gain entry to the World Trade Organisation.
However, Xu forecast a sharp increase in unemployment.
In 1997, the number of people out of work in the urban area could be as many as eight million, including workers left idle because of suspension of factory production, he said.
The urban jobless rate could reach eight percent next year if both surplus workers at factories and registered unemployed were included, Xu said.
China's official registered urban jobless rate was 2.98 percent at the end of September.
China could list more railway companies and is studying a plan to create a fund to boost foreign investment in the sector, a railway official said on Monday.
The moves would be aimed at bringing in cash to help modernise the nation's huge rail system and fend off competition from planes and buses, Ministry of Railways senior engineer Zhang Yanzhao said.
China's first railway stock offer -- the Guangshen Railway Co Ltd -- was being watched for its performance as a possible model for future offerings, Zhang told Reuters in an interview.
"If Guangshen is seen as successful, we could use the same method again," said Zhang, assistant director-general of the department for cooperation with foreign countries.
The Guangshen Railway links Guangzhou -- capital of fast growing Guangdong province -- with Shenzhen, which borders Hong Kong.
In May, the company's shares were listed in Hong Kong and in New York as American Depositary Receipts.  
The offer was only a modest success, managing to hold just above its offer price. The Hong Kong shares were now trading at HK$2.925 ($0.38) each compared with an offer price of HK$2.91.
"Any operations listed in the future would have to be making money and would probably be along the east coast," Zhang said.
The key was corporatising the regional railway bureaus under the ministry's supervision. So far, only Guangzhou and Dalian in the northeast have taken this step.
Another form of financing under study is the creation of a fund that could offer fixed income to foreign investors.
"This is still far off," Zhang said without giving details.
The railways have long been the backbone of China's transport sector, but are now facing new competitive pressure for both freight and passenger markets.
Guangshen Railway had to cut ticket prices as of November to compete with bus traffic. The move was expected to hurt revenue and has already pressured the company's share price.
China's railways carried 448 million passengers in the first half of the year, down 14 percent from a year ago, according to official media reports.  
Zhang said that overall China's railways were profitable, although some routes were losing money. And overall, profits were not keeping up with past performances.
"As of last year, we have not been doing as well," he said without giving any figures.
Overstaffing was a key problem because the railway system has 3.3 million workers on its payrolls. But shedding jobs requires tough political decisions because unemployment is seen as a source of potential social unrest.
Government control over rail rates is also a problem. The ministry would like to raise rates but has little room to do so.
"This is a sensitive area," said Zhang.
The ministry is trying to speed up its trains, increase capacity and provide more comfortable passenger cars. It plans to expand electrified rail service to 28 percent of its capacity by 2000 from 19 percent now.
New plans for electric locomotive production are under discussion, and Switzerland's ABB AG and Germany's Siemens AG are among the top contenders.
Discussions are under way with Canada's Bombardier for joint production of modern passenger cars, and plans are moving ahead for a computerised, nationwide ticketing service.  
"If we don't compete we will lose market share," said Zhang.
(US$1 = HK$7.73)
U.S. Undersecretary of State Lynn Davis has begun talks with Chinese officials in Beijing on arms proliferation issues, a U.S. Embassy official said on Monday.
"She has arrived and started talks," the official said by telephone. Davis arrived in Beijing last Thursday and was due to hold talks on Monday and Tuesday.
"She is the undersecretary for arms control issues... She has a whole range of issues that she'll be bringing up with the Chinese," the official said when asked what Davis would discuss with her hosts.
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Robert Einhorn flew into Beijing last week for talks before Davis's visit.
John Holum, director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, also visited the Chinese capital recently.
Officials have said Davis would discuss how the two countries might implement a decade-old, peaceful nuclear cooperation accord that would let U.S. firms sell nuclear power reactors to China.
Beijing has tried to lure foreign technology, some of it with potential military value, with promises of lucrative business contracts.
China's official Xinhua news agency said on Monday that U.S. firms stood to win billions of dollars of nuclear energy contracts if the 1985 agreement were put into effect.
"Sino-U.S. cooperation in nuclear energy development has yet to enter a substantial stage," Xinhua quoted Li Donghui as saying.
"Negotiations on the agreement are still under way," added Li, the deputy-general director of the China National Nuclear Corp's international cooperation bureau.
The pact has not been implemented because of Washington's concern that Beijing has sold nuclear technology to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities in other nations, most notably to Pakistan.
Both China and Pakistan deny the charges.
China agreed last May not to provide aid such as ring magnets and other devices used in making nuclear weapons to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities.
U.S. officials say a reported nuclear-related deal between Beijing and Islamabad was struck before the May accord was drawn up and that they have no evidence China has violated the pact.
Davis would also renew U.S. concerns over Chinese sales of conventional arms to Iran, who Washington has blacklisted as a sponsor of terrorism, officials have said.
Washington is investigating reports that Indonesia and China are close to a deal to sell Iran five French helicopters that could be armed with air-launched missiles.
Davis's talks were expected to pave the way for a visit by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher later this month, his first to China in two years.
Christopher's 1994 visit ended in bitter wrangling over human rights issues.
Sino-U.S. relations have been battered in recent months by disputes over human rights, China's rampant copyright abuse and Beijing's terms of entry into the World Trade Organisation.
The White House said last week it was deeply concerned over a Chinese court verdict sentencing prominent pro-democracy activist Wang Dan to 11 years in prison for plotting to overthrow the government.
Zero tax and limited regulation are luring billions of dollars into offshore mutual funds, spurring a growth industry in famed tax-free locations such as the Cayman Islands, according to a mutual fund legal expert.
"I think every indication is that the offshore part of the mutual fund industry will grow. In the offshore jurisdiction you have no taxation and a more appropriate level of regulation as a rule of thumb," said Anthony Travers, senior partner at Maples and Calder in Hong Kong.
Anecdotal evidence suggests these advantages have drawn nearly US$900 billion into offshore mutual funds so far out of an entire industry sometimes valued at US$5 trillion, he said.
A lack of professional infrastructure is often a compelling disincentive to authorising funds in countries offering the greatest returns, while high taxation levels deter mutual funds from setting up in promising developed markets, he said on Friday.
The alternative is to authorise the fund in an offshore region, avoiding tax while reaching into some of the world's most rewarding investment regions.
There are, however, drawbacks.
"If you go offshore and you invest into the onshore jurisdiction from your mutual funds, you have things like withholding tax and tax treatments that may be imposed on your profits, and marketing is very much an issue," Travers said.
Certain double tax treaty networks can allow investors to avoid some onshore tax requirements, but these treaties vary from country to country, as do marketing restrictions, he said.
For example, offshore mutual funds are prevented from marketing to more than 100 investors in the United States, while the United Kingdom prohibits marketing of offshore retail mutual funds unless they are based in designated jurisdictions, such as Bermuda, Jersey and Guernsey.
It is possible to market a Cayman Islands-registered mutual fund in the United Kingdom, but only as a private placement and not as a retail fund, Travers said.
Despite their obvious benefits, Travers warned that investing in offshore mutual funds is not for everyone.
The lack of regulation gives greater flexibility in the establishment and administration of mutual funds but it also provides little recourse for unsophisticated retail investors, which partly explains why these funds cannot be marketed freely in the United States or the United Kingdom.
"You are essentially talking about mutual funds which are established by institutions for other institutions or very high net worth and sophisticated individuals, in which case it is felt additional layers of regulation are not appropriate or necessary," he said.
It is possible to market offshore retail funds in Europe, but funds must meet the requirements of the "Undertakings of Collective Investment and Transfer of Securities" (UCITS) directive, which ensures certain standards are met.
"They are supposed to be able to sell UCITS cross-border in Europe but in fact the European Union is still something of a myth when it comes to cross-border marketing," Travers said.
"And you find in these jurisdictions commensurately higher fees. Three to six basis points on net asset value is the price you pay to market to the retail sector," he said.
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd is likely to benefit from the planned US$20 billion merger of MCI Communications Corp and British Telecommunications Plc , Australian media analysts said on Monday.
They said News, which already has a wide-ranging partnership with MCI, would strengthen its global media interests on the coat-tails of the creation of the world's second largest telecommunications group.
"It means they'll be in bed with a bigger more powerful global telephony group," one senior Sydney media analyst said.  
Analysts also said the BT-MCI merger would stabilise New Corp's partnership with MCI, which had seemed increasingly strained in recent months. "It seems that MCI and News haven't been getting on lately, whereas News and BT have been getting on a lot better," said the senior Sydney analyst.
The prospect of MCI selling its nine percent stake in News Corp over the next year had suppressed News Corp's shares in the last month. "There was a view that MCI wasn't real happy with it (the partership) and may sell out, but now nothing's going to happen for 12 months at least," said another Sydney analyst.  
"The implications for News are quite positive," the analyst said.
A Melbourne analyst said some in the market were a bit worried that MCI was preparing to  to sell down their stake over the next 12 months. "The fact that BT may combine with MCI reduces that risk for now at least," the analyst said.
MCI and News Corp announced a broad alliance in May 1995, under which MCI bought a nine percent stake in News for US$1.35 billion and acquired an option to increase that stake up to 13.5 percent. They agreed, amoug other things, to jointly set up an American satelite television operation -- ASkyB.  
But progress with ASkyB has been slow and other smaller joint ventures have failed to fire.
However, the Australian analysts said they would remain somewhat cautious given bearish comments on Sunday by MCI.
MCI announced that it would cut its stake in ASkyB to 20 percent from 50 percent.
Analysts said this was not surprising as News Corp and MCI had said recently they wanted new partners in the venture.  
But MCI Chief Executive Bert Roberts also told Reuters on Sunday that no major new launches were expected from the venture with News Corp and that MCI would sell to News a US$700 million satellite license if it could.
He also said MCI was unlikely to take up its option to increase its stake in News, a comment seen by analysts as symptomatic of Roberts' increasing unhappiness with the deal.
Analysts also said there was the potential for a regulatory block to links between News, its 40 percent owned BSkyB Plc and BT.  
"There's an outside risk that British regulatory bodies could try and block the News-BSkyB-BT side of it," said another BT analyst.
Other analysts said the dilution involved, with BT owning nine percent of a 40 percent stake in BSkyB, would assuage regulatory concerns. The likely election of a British Labour government also reduced that risk.
"They're banking on (Labour leader) Tony Blair winning government and deregulating cross media rules in the United Kingdom," said another Sydney analyst.  
However another analyst pointed to the recent banning by British regulator Oftel of a joint marketing campaign between BT and BSkyB as a sign of the rocky road ahead for News and BT.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
British Telecom and MCI Communications on Sunday announced a $20 billion merger, using the largest cross-border takeover deal in history to spawn a global telecommunications powerhouse.
The merged company, to be called Concert Plc, creates the world's second-largest telecommunications group, based on market capitalization, behind Japan's NTT Corp.
Valued at $54 billion based on Friday's closing stock prices, Concert is neck-and-neck with U.S. long-distance leader AT&amp;T Corp., which is MCI's arch-rival in the super-competitive U.S. market.
For customers, the deal promises better service and lower international calling charges, while for businesses it means a company that can support them wherever they are. For for shareholders, it means faster earnings growth, analysts said.
"This is not a pebble we're throwing onto a quiet pool. It is a big rock, and it's going to make a big splash," Sir Iain Vallance, chairman of British Telecommunications Plc, told a news conference in New York.
The deal values all of Washington,D.C.-based MCI at a total $25.2 billion. But as British Telecom already owns 20 percent, it will issue Concert stock and cash worth $20.1 billion for the 80 percent it does not own. Holders of this MCI stake will thus control 33 percent of the stock in the combined company.
Because the companies have already worked together for three years, they expect the merged company to function well.
"Mergers don't always work, but this one will," Vallance added.
AT&amp;T, which would be the hardest hit by a financially muscular enlarged rival, said it was confident any MCI/British Telecom deal would receive proper scrutiny by the U.S. government and called on both U.S. and European regulators to condition approval of the deal on a further freeing of competition in British Telecom's home market.
Already strong in long distance, MCI hopes to use BT's service and back-up expertise, plus plenty of cash, to help take a big chunk of the $100 billion a year U.S. local calling market from the regional Bells.
That market is expected to gradually open to competition following legislation earlier this year. Since 1984 it had been the monopoly of the seven regional Bells.
MCI Chief Executive Bert Roberts said he was confident the combination with British Telecom would win the approval of federal regulators, noting that "the U.K. is the most competitive telecommunications market in the world."
He added that the deal would result in lower expenditures for both companies because "costs will be reduced by building networks once, not twice." The companies expect to save $1.5 billion in costs over five years.
Employees, usually tense during mergers, can relax.
"Minimal job cuts, that is the joy of this. MCI will operate in the Americas, and BT will operate in the U.K and the rest of the world," Vallance told Reuters.
Concert Plc would be one of the world's largest telecommunications companies, with 43 million business and residential customers in 70 countries.
"The complementary strengths and skills of BT and MCI will enable Concert to take full advantage of the great opportunities provided by the forthcoming liberalization of the telecommunications market in the U.S. and Europe," said Vallance.
Under the terms of the agreement, which has yet to be approved by regulatory authorities on either side of the Atlantic, MCI shareholders would receive 0.54 new American Depositary Shares in the new combined group for every MCI share. Each Concert ADS is equivalent to one British Telecom American Depositary Share and $6 cash.
British Telecom's ADSs closed at $55.50 in New York on Friday, giving a value of $30 per MCI share, plus $6 in cash per share before the effect of a buyback by British Telecom that is part of the deal, MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine told Reuters.
British Telecom said Concert will buy back up to 10 percent of its shares after the deal closes. The maximum buyback would increase the value of the deal to MCI shareholders to $39.60 per MCI share. MCI's stock closed Friday at $30.25 on Nasdaq.
The new company, incorporated in Britain, would have headquarters in London and Washington and operate under the British Telecom and MCI brand names.
British Telecom has been looking for a major acquisition since its proposed merger with British rival Cable and Wireless failed in May. It had been keen to forge that deal because it would have given it access to the lucrative Asian telecoms market -- the world's fastest-growing market.
Analysts now expect British Telecom and MCI to start making overtures to major Asian players such as Japan's giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.
But while seeking an Asian partner, MCI is putting another one on a backburner.
MCI is to cut its stake in a U.S. satellite venture with Australian media tycoon Rupert Murdoch to 20 percent from 50 percent, and will not increase its stake in Murdoch's News Corp as originally expected.
"It is unlikely you will see us increasing our investment (in News Corp)," Roberts told Reuters.
MCI paid $1.35 billion for a stake of just under 9 percent, and could increase it to 13 percent with another $1 billion investment.
Roberts added that if U.S. regulatory permission could be obtained, he may even sell the $700 million license that goes with the U.S. direct-to-home broadcast satellite to Murdoch.
British brewer to leisure group Whitbread Plc posted a 14 percent increase in its half year profits on Tuesday to 177.5 million pounds ($290 million) and chairman Sir Michael Angus said he expects recent levels of growth in its markets to continue.
In an interview chief executive Peter Jarvis, in ebullient mood, said British consumers were feeling better, spending much more on leisure and the upward trend was set to roll for at least another two years.
"I think the consumer position in Britain is favourable for at least two or three years. Unless we have some kind of catastrophe, the prospects in Britain are good. All the economic predictions from the banks point to low inflation and growing consumer confidence," said Jarvis.
The company's hotels business doubled profits and sales in the six months to August 31. Like-for-like sales were up by 11 percent with occupancy levels and room rates much higher.
"The number of foreign tourists to Britain is growing very, very fast. They spent 13 to 14 billion pounds last year and half of that in London," he said.
"That's been growing very fast in the last 10 years and its forecast by Henley (forecasting centre) to be the fastest growing sector of the leisure market."
Americans flocked to Whitbread's 16 Marriott hotels during the half year for the first time as a result of a marketing link-up with Marriott in America, adding five percent to occupancy levels at some Marriott hotels.
Whitbread acquired health and sports club group David Lloyd Leisure for 200 million pounds and a chain of 16 Marriott hotels in Britain for some 185 million in August 1995.
The company also owns a chain of about 130 low budget Travel Inns, which Jarvis said will be added at the rate of about one every 10 days to reach 300 by the end of the year 2000. Consumers also spent more eating out during the half year with Pizza Hut, jointly owned with Pepsico, and TGI Friday's sales ahead by about 20 percent.
The Beefeater chain of restaurants increased like-for-like sales three pecent and profit by 7.0 percent. The company's restaurant and leisure division saw pretax profits rise 58 percent to 56.3 million.
Whitbread Inns, which includes casual dining out pub chain Brewers Fayre, saw profits grow by 15 percent to 77.4 million and total sales by 14 percent. But sales from Whitbread's 2,200 leased pub estate were down three percent.
"The main driving force on like-for-like sales is on food pubs and restaurants and we also opened a lot more new places that appeal to people who would not normally go to pubs."
Whitbread's beer company increased profits by 12 percent to 30.8 million pounds on sales which were ahead eight percent pushed higher by the acquisition of the Labatt and Wadworth brands. Heineken Export and Stella Artois produced the strongest brand performances.
However gearing -- the ratio of debt to equity -- more than doubled to 27.3 percent, after a spate of recent acquisitions including the Pelican Group of French-style urban bistros Cafe Rouge and Dome, for 133 million in July.
Whitbread shares rose 7p to 748p on the results, which beat most analysts' forecasts.
British Petroleum Co Plc (BP) extolled the virtues of "self help" on Tuesday as it reported its best-ever third quarter earnings despite pressure on profit margins in some key businesses.
Third-quarter net earnings jumped by 22 percent to 650 million pounds ($1.07 billion), towards the top end of forecasts, while in the first nine months of the year they were up 28 percent to a record 1.93 billion pounds.
BP said strong oil prices, which have recently been at their highest levels since the 1991 Gulf War at around $22 a barrel, boosted earnings by between $400 million-$500 million in the third quarter.
But it added that the gains were more than offset by weaker profit margins in refining, marketing and chemicals, which accounted for about 27 percent of group net earnings.
Group chief executive John Browne said BP was enjoying the benefits of a raft of cost-cutting and efficiency drives, which were adding $150 million to profit every quarter.
"What we see here has not come about as a result of high oil prices, it has come about as a result of self help," he said.
The market took the results calmly, with BP shares adding two pence to close at 640.5 pence after touching a high of 647p. However, trading in BP shares on the options market was active.
"People are still speculating on a fairly sharp rise in BP shares," one options specialist said.
"In a sense BP have spoilt us," said Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull analyst Irene Himona.
"We've got used to them coming out with a good set of numbers at the top of the range, and unfortunately with (rival) Shell it is the other way around."
BP's results contrasted with disappointment last week at third-quarter figures from rival Royal Dutch/Shell Group, where profits fell on the back of low refining margins and a weak chemicals market.
BP also emphasised the relative stability in its earnings, partly as a result of the vigorous cost-cutting at its exploration and production activities.
"They are very much on the ball and very focused. They have achieved a lot of efficiency improvements and delivered a lot of savings," said Himona.
BP was upbeat about near term propsects, with oil demand expected to remain strong into 1997. But it said its long-term view that the oil price would settle back into a range of $16 to $18 a barrel had not changed. "The question is how we get from here to there," said Browne.
Morgan Stanley analyst Chris Buckley said the oil price was always the greatest uncertainty, but added that lower prices tended to mean margins could improve in downstream activities like chemicals and refining.
($1=.6051 Pound)
Shares in Cable and Wireless, Britain's second biggest telecoms group, lost more ground on Tuesday as analysts said the $20 billion creation of Anglo-U.S. Concert Plc had thrown the group its biggest challenge to date.
Uninspiring results from Cable and Wireless' (C&amp;W) lucrative Hong Kong subsidiary, Hong Kong Telecommunications Ltd, on which the British group relies for about 75 percent of attributable profits, also helped depress the stock.
C&amp;W, faced with a change of government in Hong Kong next July and growing competition in the territory, has also been dogged by talk that it may have to sell part of its Hong Kong stake in return for a worthwhile position in China. "I think the Hong Kong Telecom figures this morning served to remind people that that is where most of the money comes from," said John Tysoe, telecoms analyst at SG Strauss Turnbull. "Not a particularly sparkling set of figures."
The Hong Kong unit lifted net profits 12.1 percent, under some analysts' expectations, to HK$5.39 billion.
While C&amp;W's shares ended five pence lower at 470.5p, executives of its Hong Kong unit insisted that they were unconcerned by the mega-merger, announced over the weekend, between British Telecommunications and MCI Communications to form the second biggest international carrier.
But analysts said the huge merger, creating a $54 billion company, posed a substantial threat to telecom rivals and could make it harder for C&amp;W to expand in the United States.
"What we saw at the weekend has thrown down the gauntlet to everyone else," Tysoe said. "It is a challenge to absolutely every other operator and I'm not sure that half of those other guys have got a coherent response."
Had Cable and Wireless' own merger talks with BT not broken down in May, that deal, valued at about 33 billion pounds ($54.54 billion), as a deal would have easily eclipsed the BT/MCI merger.
But BT's new strategic plans makes it one of the biggest players in America behind market leader AT&amp;T.
Cable and Wireless' own U.S. operation brings in annual revenues of about 0.5 billion pounds -- a far cry from BT's share, which now jumps to around $18 billion a year.
Analysts agree that BT has proved to the market that Cable and Wireless (C&amp;W) is bid proof, partly because it is hard to value its Hong Kong stake. What the do see happening however, is that C&amp;W will seek to increase its foothold in the increasingly competitive U.S. telecoms market and link up with new partners.
"The important thing for C&amp;W is to get more of a presence there and my guess is that they will do that in an alliance," Tysoe said.
Few industry analysts took market rumours seriously that BT's latest expansion plans would prompt its arch-rival in the international market, AT&amp;T, to bid for C&amp;W -- or even launch an immediate takeover of mobile phone operator Vodafone.
As for an alliance partner for C&amp;W, the bets were on NYNEX Corp. Its subsidiary NYNEX CableComms is the largest minority shareholder in Cable and Wireless Communications, an alliance creating Britain's largest cable operator.
NYNEX also has an international diversification strategy centered around the Far East, similar to that of C&amp;W. Other potential U.S. partners could be Pacific Telesis (PacTel), which is being taken over by SBC Communications. However, PacTel is more interested in central or south America, analysts said. ($1=.6051 Pound)
John McGrath, chief executive of food and drinks giant Grand Metropolitan Plc said the company will continue to unshackle itself from production in its mission to bear down on costs.
"In many cases we don't need to produce what we sell," McGrath told Reuters. "Whether you own the processing is often academic as long as you control the quality."
The company is looking at further Seneca-type deals in the next year, he said, where a third party takes on the production but GrandMet keeps hold of pricing, marketing and quality.  
Last year, GrandMet contracted out to U.S. company Seneca the processing and packaging of its Green Giant's canned vegetables. Green Giant was acquired as part of Pillsbury, GrandMet's U.S. food arm, in 1989.
Pillsbury currently produces some 75 percent of what it sells and this number will decline in the future.
If a product can be insulated by patent from the competition, then GrandMet would want to continue making it, said McGrath in an interview. But, if it's a bread or biscuit product, for instance, it may make economic sense to allow a third party producer in.  
"We would never get out of distilling whisky or blending... that is a skill which only a few highly skilled people can ensure. They know how to get the right quality, the right taste, the right balance. But, whether you need to bottle it yourself is another matte," McGrath said.
"The best example is Coca-Cola who are brand marketeers, brand owner and controllers of the concentrate. But, whether they own the processing is academic as long as they control the quality."  
McGrath paid tribute to former chairman Lord Sheppard, who stood down as chairman in March, after 21 years with the group, for transforming GrandMet into a leaner, more focused company.
When Sheppard took over in 1987, he found a company with over 30 very different business which he thinned down to three: food, drinks and Burger King retailing.
McGrath, appointed chairman and chief executive of International Distillers and Vintners (IDV), GrandMet's spirits arm, in September 1993, brought a tough, cost-conscious urge to make Sheppard's vision work.  
McGrath, whose management skills stem from the shopfloor and operations rather than boardroom, separates himself from the culture of GrandMet's heady, deal-making days of the last decade when companies were carved up and sold on in droves.
"The view I take which the board strongly supports is concentrating on making those very expensive assets that we have acquired work highly efficiently."
"Now is the time to concentrate on organic growth very strongly supported by new brand development. We will only make minor acquisitions chiefly in emerging markets or food service in the U.S. where we can get some good returns," he said.
"What I am very much concentrating on now is taking all the action we possibly can to as rapidly as possible increase our return on capital," said McGrath.
"We are investing for the medium term and no longer for short term gain," he said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
KPMG, one of the world's big six international accounting and consultancy firms, believes investment in infrastructure and technology has put it on track to hasten revenue growth.
"We would like to be growing faster and are committed to growing faster," Jon Madonna, chairman of KPMG International told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday.
Earlier the group reported an eight percent rise in worldwide revenues for the fiscal year to September 30, 1996 to $8.1 billion, up from $7.5 billion the year before.
Madonna, who earlier this year said revenue growth in excess of 10 percent was a reasonable expectation, said KPMG had invested heavily in infrastructure and technology during the year and this would pay off in terms of further growth.
He said all sides of the business had performed well over the year but stressed that significant growth in revenues was likely to come from the consulting side of the business rather than from the traditional backbone of auditing and tax.
"If you look at where the great opportunity is, its on the consulting side," Madonna said.
While KPMG's growth rate for the year was lower than rival firm Andersen Worldwide, which last month reported a 16 percent increase in 1996 revenues to $9.4 billion, Madonna said he was not disappointed with the firm's result.
When looked at on a dollar-adjusted basis, the 1996 revenue growth was the same as for the previous year, Madonna said.
But there was still work to be done.
"I said a year ago we need to be growing faster. I just think we have got to do a lot better than that. It's a big ship and you don't turn it around in just a few days," he added.
The investment and strategic moves KPMG had made had ensured it would be in a strong position for the future. "The road we are on is the right road".
Madonna said the firm's partners were agreed that the moves it had made over the year were correct and the fact that everybody wanted faster growth confirmed the need for large-scale investments.
"We are making sizeable dollar investments in terms of infrastructure and product development." This included around $500 million a year on technology and "well in excess" of $100 million on products.
For Madonna the key is what the partnership, which employs more than 77,000 people and has more than 6,250 partners, is doing in three years' time.
The strategy which KPMG has embarked on will not be altered to achieve further revenue growth and areas such as developing new products and establishing a framework of common industries and a common infrastructure across the firm's worldwide business will continue.
Madonna, who believes there will be further consolidation among the big accountancy firms, said KPMG will also stick to growing from within rather than through large-scale acquisition.
The number of major accounting firms in the world has dropped from eight in the mid-1980s to six, with a rise in competition from other types of firms.
But Madonna does not see KPMG making any big buys.
"There will be local acquisitions and mergers down the road but I don't think anything big is on the horizon."
Toronto stocks added almost one percent in value on Tuesday, posting their 52nd record close of 1996 on rallying bank stocks and stronger bond and currency markets, analysts said.
"We got a new high on the Canadian dollar. Second, we have a big increase in the Canadian bonds. Thirdly, we had a very strong Dow Jones (Industrial Average)," said Rolie Bradley, an institutional salesman with Maison Placements Canada Inc.
"As a result of all that, you have almost panic buying in Canadian interest-sensitive stocks," Bradley said.
The dollar rallied to close at C$1.3301 (US$0.7518), its strongest level since October 30, 1995. Currency traders said the unit was helped by bullish technical momentum and strong U.S. interest in Canadian bonds.
The Canadian 30-year benchmark bond jumped C$2.00 to close around C$114.55 to yield 6.807 percent.
The TSE, Canada's largest equity market, gained 55.21 points to close at 5664.47. In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 39.50 points to end at 6081.18.
Toronto traded a total of 105 million shares worth C$1.83 billion (US$1.37 billion).
Advancing issues outnumbered declines 505 to 445 with 300 stocks unchanged.
"The banks are driving Toronto to yet another new high," said RBC Dominion Securities analyst Dunnery Best. The financial services sector rose by 2.8 percent, leading 12 of Toronto's 14 sub-indices higher.
Other strong groups included pipelines, conglomerates, consumer products and transports. The only weak sectors were golds and oils.
Among hot bank stocks, Bank of Montreal added C$1.75 to C$44.45 on 1.8 million shares.
Toronto-Dominion Bank gained C$1.15 to C$34.25 in heavy trading after it was upgraded to an outperform rating by U.S. brokerage Morgan Stanley.
Canada's largest publicly traded firm, BCE Inc., rose C$1.10 to close at C$62.20 on over 1.5 million shares.
Growing interest in the Internet, the world-wide computer link-up, is attracting investors to telecommunications firms like BCE, Bradley said.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency lost a bid on Tuesday to freeze shares in Inco Ltd. worth $152 million belonging to international mining financier Robert Friedland.
The EPA had said that Friedland should be held responsible for environmental problems at a former gold mine in Summitville, Colorado. It requested an injunction on the shares until it could sue Friedland for $152 million in costs to clean up the Summitville site.
But an Ontario Court judge Tuesday shot down the EPA's arguments and scolded the agency for the "nondisclosure and misrepresentations" that he said riddled its case.
"The evidence has led me to the conclusion that the liability of Robert Friedland is anything but clear," Justice Robert Sharpe of Ontario Court's general division said as he read his decision.
He ordered that the Inco shares be held by Friedland's lawyers until Friday afternoon to give the United States a chance to apply for an appeal.
Lawyers for the United States would not say if they would appeal.
"This is the most devastating judgment they've ever had," Friedland lawyer Alan Lenczner said in an interview. "This is just unprofessional."
Friedland gained the Inco stock as part of Inco's takeover last August of Diamond Fields Resources, a company run by Friedland, which controlled the huge Voisey's Bay nickel deposit in remote Labrador.
In the 1980s, Friedland founded and ran Galactic Resources Ltd., the company that controlled the Summitville mine and the firm the EPA said was responsible for the pollution.
The EPA wanted Friedland's assets frozen since it said it had a strong case against Friedland in Colorado.
But the Ontario judge said the EPA's case was far from strong. The EPA failed to show that Friedland was directly responsible for any pollution in Summitville, he said.
"In my view there are serious shortcomings in the case of the United States," he said.
More important, the United States did not present the court with the full and fair information required for an injunction, making it hard for the judges who granted the injunction to make a fair decision, the judge said.
"This is a serious departure from the fundamental integrity of the judicial process," he said.
A previous ruling from Sharpe ordered the United States to disclose all documents related to the case, not just the ones the agency had presented voluntarily.
Those documents showed the EPA had doubts about its ability to win the case against Friedland, the judge said.
"The extent of nondisclosure of the United States in this case is serious and fundamental."
Galactic mined gold at the Summitville mine in the 1980s, using open-pit heap leaching methods where ore is placed on top of rubber pads and then sprayed with a cyanide mixture. Cyanide leaked through the pads, threatening the area's rivers.
Exporters have united to oppose an Ivorian government plan to make them liable for income tax owed and frequently unpaid by upcountry buyers, exporters said on Tuesday.
Tax laws approved by parliament in February allowed for deductions equivalent to about 7.5 percent of commission paid by exporters to agents buying cocoa on their behalf in the 1996/97 season, they told Reuters.
"Because we hold export licences does not mean we are qualified to act as tax collectors. We are in discussions with the government," GEPEX exporters' forum president, Rene Ekra, told Reuters on Tuesday.
One exporter said the dispute had contributed to export delays at the start of the 1996/97 marketing season but a decision was expected by the end of the week. "Banks are ready to finance but we still do not have an export rate to work on and now we are into November," he said.
Exporters say the plan means a deduction of about 2.5 CFA per kilo from buyers' commissions. Buyers are currently paid a 1995/96 commission rate of about 32 CFA per kilo of collected cocoa, but Ivory Coast opened its 1996/97 cocoa marketing year October 24 without setting new reference rates for exporters and buyers along the farmgate-to-shipment marketing chain.
Exporters say if the law is applied, tax collection costs should be given by the government to exporters.
"We would also have to find ways of getting buyers to pay up and cover the tax collection costs if it goes through," one told Reuters.
Donors say the plan is part of a clampdown on tax evasion by up-country buyers.
"Buyers must pay their income tax and the government has found it difficult to get them to pay. The idea is to get exporters to pay it up front," said a bank official.
Exporters say the tax plan is poorly defined as well as misdirected.
"We cannot pay such amounts in advance," said one. "For every thousand tonnes exporters would have to pay the govenment 2.5 million CFA (francs)."
Some up-country buyers said they would avoid the tax by setting up as GVCs, tax-exempt buyers' cooperatives currently under government review for lack of accounting transparency.
"It would be easy to hire someone to set up on that basis," said one trader, but cooperatives say laws under consideration could make such a move more difficult.
"Buyers might set up as GVCs but it will be harder in future. Accounting standards might be tightened later this year and licensing could be stricter," a UNECACI farm cooperative leader said.
Exporters say the law might not be implemented. "It is possible. GVCs crop up and disappear overnight. There is talk of tightening up GVC management but no sign of it yet." said one.
The government has had problems identifying traitants because of the sporadic nature of their work and their locations, said one international banker. "Exporters usually know whom the buyers are as well as where they are," he added.
--Abidjan Newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Shipments of cocoa from Ivory Coast's main port of Abidjan are matching arrivals, leaving intact a standing stock of about 90,000 tonnes reported at the end of October, shipping sources said on Tuesday.
"The majority of transporters are shipping cocoa but some are still cautious as freight rates have not been agreed," one port source told Reuters. "Total stocks have not really changed since last week," he added.
Port sources said arrivals seemed to be picking up with increasing numbers of trucks arriving.
Shipping companies and exporters last week said delays in issuing freight rates and export licences had blocked some cocoa at Abidjan. Exporters now expect 1996/97 export licences to be issued this week.
"The Caistab (marketing board) told me licences would be out this week" said one exporter. "Some exporters have decided to wait for their licences and bank finances before buying anything but some are going ahead."
Shipping companies say they would continue shipping at the 1995/96 reference freight rates agreed with the Caistab last November.
Shipments at the start of the 1995/96 cocoa marketing season were delayed from early October to mid-November when shipping companies refused to cut their freight rates by 25 percent as requested by the Caistab. A cut of seven percent was evenutally agreed.
"So far we have avoided a repeat. Shipments have carried on so far but we will just wait see what happens," said one port source.
Rates for this year are widely expected to remain unchanged.
Shipping companies have been asked by government agencies to submit detailed information on freight rates and projected volumes for next year but say prices are confidential business information.
Caistab spokesmen were not immediately available for comment and no date has been set for fixing the reference freight rates for the 1996/97 cocoa season.
--Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's second-generation, billion-dollar foreign oil projects are finding out that close ties to top government figures, delicate talks with new partners and careful handling of oil-rich, ambitious regions are vital.
Western oil companies eyeing Arctic reserves need close Kremlin relationships and savvy negotiating skills more than ever, now that Moscow has a cooler, tougher attitude toward Western participation in oil production-sharing deals.
Support from President Boris Yeltsin, who oversaw the transformation of the oil sector into privatised companies and who underwent heart surgery on Tuesday, is crucial.
So is a willingness to get out the pencils and redo budgets after talks with increasingly demanding Russian partners.
The factors -- some old, some new --  will decide whether deals stay on the drawing board or get off the ground.
In one of Russia's most prominent projects, Amoco Corp of the United States and Russian oil giant YUKOS are in tortuous talks that, analysts said, revolve around how to accomodate YUKOS shareholder Bank Menatep.
"Any time you add a new player to the game, you need to re-establish what the ground rules are," said Dan Westbrook, senior vice-president and resident manager of Amoco Eurasia Petroleum Company, in a recent telephone interview.
Leading commercial bank Menatep owns a 33 percent stake in YUKOS, Russia's second largest oil producer, and controls a further 45 percent stake formally owned by the government.
The two companies plan to spend $50 billion or so to tap the huge Priobsk oil field, which could hold 610 million recoverable tonnes, in Siberia's Tyumen region.
Russia's first-generation foreign oil deals, all off the Russian Far Eastern island of Sakhalin, took forever to hammer out but largely gave Western partners the leading equity stakes they demanded as insurance for the political risk of investing.
Now, years later, Moscow officials say quietly that Russia should have at least equal status, if not the upper hand.
That makes Kremlin and Fuel and Energy Ministry patronage as important as ever to getting deals to the production stage.
Succesful implementation of projects is still heavily dependent on people at the top, like Yeltsin -- thus showing the enduring power of personalities to moving oil deals forward in Russia, in spite of Moscow's moves to make laws, not people, the framework for investments.
The Timan-Pechora Company, or TPC, which groups Texaco, Amoco, Exxon, Norsk Hydro AS Russia's Rosneft and an exploration outfit in a $40 billion project in the Timan-Pechora basin, saw negotiations temporarily halt over the unexpected death of a key Russian negotiating partner.
TPC President Tom Hazen said he was confident talks to tap up to 360 million tonnes of oil would continue with a special Russian delegation after the Fuel and Energy Ministry selects a replacement for deceased delegation leader Vadim Dvurechensky, who was also a deputy Fuel and Energy minister.
"We are hopeful to continue our negotiations with the special delegation," Hazen said.
"There are very few remaining outstanding issues. I certainly wouldn't draw any conclusions that there have been a lack of negotiations or a termination of discussions."
Both Westbrook and Hazen declined to say when their projects could be finalised.
Western oil companies have a new worry -- the growing demands by oil-rich regions for a bigger cut in deals.
Interfax news agency earlier this week quoted the chairman of the State Duma lower parliament house's Committee on Natural Resources as saying that the Nenets regional Duma had recommended the government break off talks with TPC over regional tax issues.
-- Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
President Boris Yeltsin's surgery on Tuesday might be a heart stopper for some volatile commodities and currency markets, but recent history proves Russian oil and gas exports are unfazed by Kremlin dramas.
Traders have seen tanks fire at Russia's White House, cloak-and-dagger power struggles and war in oil-rich Chechnya -- and each time, they say, Russian supplies of oil and natural gas to Europe and the Mediterranean have held steady.
Russia is the world's third-largest crude oil producer and single biggest natural gas producer; its energy heats and powers much of Europe and is a multi-billion dollar cash cow for Russia no matter who sits in the Kremlin hot seat.
This time, with Yeltsin under the knife this morning for a gruelling, hours-long heart bypass, should be no different.
"Politics don't affect us," said trader Vladimir Solovyov of Nafta-Moskva, one of Russia's leading oil exporters.
"We are more interested in things like government decrees saying 'export tariff introduced' or 'export tariff scrapped'.
Yeltsin's surgery began against domestic and international worries that if the operation fails, Russia could plunge into political uncertainty that could hit oil and gas exports.
With about one third of Russia's 6.2 million barrels per day output exported outside the former Soviet Union, and with Russian natural gas keeping one third of Europe warm, it is easy to see why traders worry about supply.
But when Russian oil exports do fluctuate, it is on less dramatic events, like storms at the Black Sea export outlet of Novorossiisk, one-off government supply programmes to former Soviet allies and which oil company is flavour of the month with export officials.
Gas exports can fluctuate on occasional explosions in Russia's gas pipeline system, the largest in the world.
Analysts said that with domestic demand flat while the Russian economy recovers, exports will be stable near-term.
Industry sources said there is no danger of conservative officials playing with the taps while Yeltsin was incapacitated, but they said some risk-averse European buyers could insist on contract terms less beneficial to Russian exporters.
"Our partners could get worried and demand terms not as attractive to us," said a trade financer at International Economic Cooperation, or MES, another leading oil exporter.
Others said money, not politics, motivated exports -- and with domestic oil prices below world levels, it is not hard to make money exporting the stuff.
"We like good prices on world markets," Nafta-Moskva's Solovyov said.
Political tensions in other major oil exporting countries often cause benchmark London and New York oil prices to leap over worries about supply disruptions.
Nervous International Petroleum Exchange traders swung spot prices in London when Yeltsin sacked maverick security tsar General Alexander Lebed last month.
But Moscow oil traders and analysts said that everyone should just calm down.
"This stuff (oil) is scheduled for export months in advance and it's technically very difficult to fiddle with the taps," said energy analyst Peter Houlder of CentreInvest consultancy.
Even the conservatives who covet Yeltsin's Kremlin seat remember the good old Soviet oil-boom days, when exports -- not disruptions to them -- were the key to power and wealth and enticed the Soviet Union to crank up output and become the world's largest oil producer.
Zhuhai, China Nov 5. (Reuter) China's flag carrier and largest airline, Air China is planning to restart flying to Los Angeles next year, Zhang Jinming, general director of the airline's advertising division said
The Beijing, Shanghai service would be "at least twice weekly" and use a Boeing 747-400 or Boeing 747 Combi aircraft, Zhang stated.
Los Angeles used to be part of the network but was stopped some time ago. Speaking through an interpreter, Zhang said it would be Air China's third service to the USA after San Francisco and New York.
Zhang was speaking on the opening day of China's first official air show held at the showpiece Zhuhai airport about 35 miles across the Pearl River delta from Hong Kong. Another major Chinese airline, China Southern Airlines, also confirmed at the show that it too was planning to start a Los Angeles service in March of next year.
Zhang also said Air China was expecting to soon announce a new service from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou to Sydney and Melbourne. He could give no further details.
A recent New China News Agency report said Air China planned to open both the US west coast and Australian routes last month. No reason was given by Zhang for the apparent delay. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
A senior U.S. arms control official said on Tuesday she was encouraged by Chinese efforts to control exports to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities, but Beijing said the key issue in two days of talks was Taiwan.
The United States had been lending its experience to Chinese efforts to place controls on exports, after a pledge in May by Beijing not to repeat sales of nuclear technology to Pakistan, U.S. Undersecretary of State Lynn Davis told a news conference.
"I am encouraged by the steps the Chinese are taking," Davis said on the second day of arms proliferation talks in Beijing that are intended to pave the way for a visit to China by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher later this month.
"We have been working with the Chinese to ensure what I call very practical implementation," Davis added. "We have already had some real success in the commitments that China has made in the areas of proliferation and their nuclear assistance to unsafeguarded facilities."
Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen had urged Washington to stop arms sales to Taiwan during a meeting with Davis on Tuesday, the official Xinhua news agency said.
A Foreign Ministry spokesman said U.S. weapons sales to Taiwan were the main Sino-U.S. arms proliferation issue.
"The most sensitive and important issue is that the United States has violated the August 17 communique by exporting large numbers of advanced weapons to Taiwan," spokesman Cui Tiankai told a news briefing.
Cui said Washington had broken its pledge under an August 17, 1982 communique to reduce the quality and quantity of arms sales to Taiwan, which Beijing considers a rebel province.
Xinhua quoted Qian as saying the United States should strictly abide by the August 17 communique to try to reduce and ultimately stop its arms sales to Taiwan.
In August, the U.S. Defence Department notified Congress that it would sell Stinger missiles and launchers to Taiwan, prompting angry Chinese protests.
Disagreement over arms sales and nuclear proliferation have long added to the strains on Sino-U.S. ties, already chilled by disputes over trade, copyright piracy and human rights.
After months of Sino-U.S. negotiations, China said on May 11 that it would not permit the sale of equipment to nuclear facilities not subject to international inspection.
The May exports accord averted possible U.S. sanctions over China's reported sale to Pakistan of ring magnets, which are used in gas centrifuges and can be used in the production of nuclear weapons material.
China and Pakistan have denied that the sales took place.
Washington had said it accepted assurances by Chinese leaders that they did not know about the sales.
Both Beijing and Washington have been keen to resume a "strategic dialogue" on security and arms issues as part of efforts to rebuild cross-Pacific relations.
U.S. arms officials say differences remain with China over the export of nuclear equipment to Iran, which Washington considers a rogue state, while Beijing has repeatedly condemned U.S. arms sales to Taiwan.
China does not rule out the use of force to regain control of Taiwan, Beijing's arch rival since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, and in March carried out intimidatory missile tests and wargames in the seas near the island.
Davis said Taiwan was discussed during her talks with Chinese officials but declined to give details.
She said U.S. weapons sales to Taipei did not contravene Washington's agreements with Beijing.
Chinese dissident Wang Dan has appealed against his 11-year jail sentence for plotting to subvert the government, but his mother said on Tuesday she held little hope of an acquittal or a lighter sentence.
Wang Lingyun said she hoped U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher and German President Roman Herzog would raise her son's predicament in their meetings with Chinese leaders when they visit China later this month.
"Wang Dan... should be acquitted because... he's innocent," she told Reuters by telephone. "We hope for an acquittal or a reduced sentence... but it is unlikely."
Wang Lingyun, who acted as one of two defence lawyers in her son's case, said court officials had asked her to submit a written defence for the appeal and that family members may not be allowed to attend the appeals court trial.
Experts on China's legal system have said the chances of the appeals court overturning the lower court's verdict were slim.
An official of the Beijing Higher People's Court said the 27-year-old dissident had filed his appeal. She declined to provide further details.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court took less than four hours last Wednesday to convict and sentence Wang, who had already served four years in prison for his role as a leader of the 1989 student demonstrations for democracy that were crushed by the military with heavy loss of life.
On Monday, visiting Swedish Prime Minister Goran Persson said he had expressed his disapproval to Chinese Premier Li Peng over the jailing of Wang.
A foreign ministry spokesman defended China at a news briefing on Tuesday, saying Beijing would not impose its laws on others and that foreign countries should take a similar stance.
The spokesman also said China opposed using human rights as a pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of any country.
An international human rights group denounced what it said was the "secret trial" of Wang on a trumped-up charge.
"What (the court) brought to bear on Wang Dan was a secret trial in which the facts were deliberately hidden and the truth distorted," the New York-based Human Rights in China said in a statement made available to Reuters by facsimile.
"A fabricated charge was used to wantonly convict Wang Dan," the group said. "Wang Dan's case... is suppression and persecution of thought and speech by the Chinese government."
When told during the trial of his right to seek the removal of any biased judges, Wang demanded all judges and prosecutors be removed from the case. The tribunal rejected his request after a few minutes of deliberation, the group said.
China said it was an open and fair trial but Human Rights in China said no foreign reporters, diplomats or other international observers were allowed to attend.
The group said more than 10 people wearing tags identifying themselves as reporters attended the trial but there was no mention of the conviction in the local Chinese-language media.
The jailing of Wang was the latest in a series of crushing blows to China's struggling pro-democracy movement. Most dissidents have already been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or labour camps.
Human Rights in China accused the official Xinhua news agency of preparing English-language stories about the results of the trial and an interview with the chief judge even before the verdict was delivered.
Asked to comment, an official of the foreign affairs office of Xinhua said: "It is not necessary to find out whether the story was prepared before or after the sentencing... News agencies have different ways and practices of releasing news."
After breaking the news of Wang's conviction, it took Xinhua only 1-1/2 hours to put out a 54-paragraph story on the interview with the chief judge.
China Southern Airlines is ready to start its first European service to Amsterdam on November 26, Ma Ting Wei, manager of the airline's advertising division told Reuyters.
Speaking at China's first air show held at the showpiece Zhuhai airport about 35 miles across the Pearl River delta from Hong Kong, Ma also said China Southern plans to start flying to Los Angeles in the middle of March next year. But plans to start a third international destination to Brisbane in Australia have not yet been finalised, he said.
The twice weekly non-stop service to Amsterdam and the Los Angeles link will both use Boeing 777 aircraft, two of which have arrived and two more will be flown into the carrier's home airport of Guangzhou within the next two months, Ma said.
Speaking through an interpreter, Ma said the new European destination will be the airline's 26th international route which opens up new opportunities.
"We hope it will be a success and is in response to customer demand. We expect good passenger and cargo numbers to be carried," he said.
The Amsterdam service is the result of an Air Service Agreement between the Dutch and Chinese governments which industry observers say took five years to hammer out. The agreement also allowed Dutch flag carrier KLM to fly to Beijing and Dutch cargo airline Martinair to fly a 747 freighter service into Guangzhou. A Martinair spokesman told Reuters last week that the service was due to begin this month but could not give a definite start date.
Freight forwarders say both the China Southern and Martinair connection will mean cargo which up to now had to be flown from Hong Kong to Europe will now eliminate cross border expense and save time. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
Hong Kong legislators plan court action and a lobbying mission to Britain in a "last-ditch battle" to save the territory's elected legislature from China's axe, pro-democracy leader Martin Lee said on Tuesday.
Britain hands the century-and-a-half-old colony back to China in 238 days, and Beijing is moving full steam ahead with a plan to appoint a new provisional legislature to replace the Legislative Council (Legco) that was fully elected in 1995.
A Chinese-controlled Selection Committee is to name the 60 members of the body at a meeting in Hong Kong next month.
The committee, formed in Beijing last weekend, is opposite to last year's election results in Hong Kong. It gives all the clout to pro-China factions and sidelines democracy groups who won a landslide 70 percent of last year's poll.
Lee, a lawyer and leader of the colony's largest political party, the Democratic Party, told Reuters the government had a duty to stop Beijing's provisional legislature from happening.
"Primarily it should be the responsibility of our attorney general to take them to the courts. But if the government will not act, then I'll certainly take them to the courts," he said.
"It's the last-ditch battle for Hong Kong," Lee said. "We should not look at it as a fait accompli. We should fight against it with all our might."
Britain has condemned China's plan and challenged Beijing to prove its legality under the Joint Declaration and Basic Law -- the documents which cover Hong Kong's sovereignty transfer.
Lee is flying to London on Friday to lobby Prime Minister John Major, opposition Labour Party leader Tony Blair and other British officials and members of parliament ahead of a November 14 House of Commons debate on Hong Kong's future.
"I want them to say the setting up of this legislature will amount to a most blatant breach of the Joint Declaration. So far the British government has refused to say that," Lee said.
He plans a similar mission to Australia and New Zealand later this month.
Another group of Hong Kong legislators led by independent Emily Lau is also flying to London to lobby. Colonial Governor Chris Patten, the ruling Conservatives' ex-chairman, also plans to be in London to press Hong Kong's case before the debate.
Reliable sources said Lee has already drawn up a raft of lawsuits to sue members of the provisional body and institutions if the new assembly is set up in breach of laws and treaties.
But Lee declined to reveal details. "I don't think I should reveal my hand. A lot will depend on what they do," he said.
Opponents of the Chinese plan point to findings by Legco's legal adviser, Jonathan Daw, who counselled in July that the provisional body would be illegal on several counts. Hong Kong's Bar Association has also highlighted illegalities.
Only one legislature is allowed to operate in Hong Kong, and no other body is allowed to pass bills under Hong Kong's constitutional set-up, Daw noted in written counsel. Any enactment of laws by a parallel body before the handover would amount to "usurpation" and would be unlawful, he said.
Lee said China's crackdown on dissidents, including the recent 11-year jailing of student leader Wang Dan for subversion, was another reason for Hong Kong's 6.3 million people to worry.
"It augurs very badly because what has happened to Wang Dan today can well happen to us tomorrow," Lee said.
"Unfortunately, Hong Kong will also have laws against subversion after 1997, because the Basic Law says so," he said.
"The provisional legislature, which is going to be a rubber stamp for Beijing appointed by Beijing, will certainly pass a law something like the law under which Wang Dan was convicted."
NatWest Markets, the investment banking arm of National Westminster Bank, said on Tuesday it had agreed to buy out Wheelock and Company Ltd's stake in their 50-50 joint venture, Wheelock NatWest.
The announcement ends a short and bumpy association between one of the world's biggest banks and Wheelock, a Hong Kong-based conglomerate led by Peter Woo Kwong-Ching, one of the leading candidates for the post of chief executive following Hong Kong's return to Chinese sovereignty next year.
NatWest Markets said recent trading scandals around the world have made it more difficult for joint ventures to operate under British rules in Asian markets with the highest growth, such as equity and derivatives trading.
"We did recognise at a very early stage that there was a certain amount of risk we could accommodate within the joint venture vehicle," said NatWest Markets' newly appointed chairman for Asia Pacific, John Howland-Jackson.
"We were perhaps not bargaining on a series of events around the world in a variety of traded markets that would cause such scrutiny of trading businesses," he said. "The whole environment has tightened up considerably."
Terms and details of the deal were not disclosed, but Howland-Jackson said both partners had contributed US$125 million in capital towards the joint venture before the shareholders went their different ways.
The move followed last month's announcement that NatWest Markets was pulling out of the fund management arm of the joint venture because of its acquisition of British pension giant Gartmore Plc  earlier in the year.
"I think that might have caused some disagreement between the shareholders," said Vincent Kwan, analyst at Vickers Ballas.
But representatives of both companies denied that termination clauses in the original joint venture deal signed in May 1994 were enacted.
Nicholas Sibley, managing director of Wheelock Capital, said his company had no immediate plans to replace the joint venture with another financial services subsidiary, but instead would focus on its goal to act as a bridge between China and the rest of the world.
"Financial services isn't the first thing that comes to mind," he said, but declined to elaborate.
Analysts warned that although the break-up will not affect Wheelock's earnings, it could signify a substantial strategic setback for a company with stated plans to diversify its earnings base away from Asia's volatile property sector.
"They've always said they wanted four major operating divisions by the year 2000 and financial services was going to be one of them," said another analyst, who declined to be identified.
"Now that the joint venture is gone some people may be wondering what the commitment is to diversifying the earnings base."
Some analysts said the joint venture had failed to perform as well as expected, and company projections of a break-even date by the end of 1997 were unduly optimistic.
"Investment banking in Asia is a very competitive market," one analyst said.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
China has given the green light to corn exports but has set a minimum selling price so high above world levels that the grain is going nowhere and farmers are missing out on much-needed cash, traders said on Tuesday.
The selling price for a tonne of Chinese corn has been set at US$170 at a time when the world price is hovering around $140-150 a tonne, sources in Hong Kong and China said.
"The market is dropping so there is no reason for anyone to buy Chinese corn," an agent working in Hong Kong on behalf of Beijing's food trading arm China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import/Export Corp (COFCO), told Reuters.
Another veteran trader in the region said COFCO executives had told him the government had agreed in principle to the export of two million tonnes of corn.
"But there is nothing in writing," he said. "We have given them bids at world price levels and they won't touch it."
Neither COFCO nor the State Planning Commission, which issues the licences, were available for comment.
Asian traders said U.S. corn was now arriving at some Asian ports at $145 a tonne inclusive of cargo and freight (c&amp;f).
"It's nonsense to issue such licences -- why not issue them 10 months ago when Chinese corn was cheap and buyers would have lined up," a Shanghai trader said.
"The new (Chinese) crop is coming and the farmers are complaining that they don't have money to buy fertiliser. But still they effectively won't allow exports."
Traders in Asia saw corn prices falling further. Expectations of a huge U.S. harvest totalling more than nine billion bushels or 228.6 million tonnes has pushed prices down by 18 percent since September.
Talk on Monday among traders on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) that China was looking for U.S. corn seemed misplaced, given that China is heading for a record crop of 115-120 million tonnes and has around 30 million tonnes of corn in storage.
CBOT corn closed one to 3-1/2 cents per bushel lower in Monday trading, with December down 1-1/4 to $2.61-3/4.
The lowest offers foreign traders and agents said they had received from Chinese corn sellers, predominantly COFCO and some Chinese trading companies with export permits, was $165 a tonne.
But traders such that price was believed to be just exploratory and was not necessarily an indication that Chinese exporters would undercut the new official price to make sales.
"But so far there is no business concluded and unless the international market price is improving, there will not be," another trader in Hong Kong said.
The FOB (free on board) price at Dalian was $165, they said.
The export permits had been issued with the tacit approval of Vice Premier Zhu Rongji, trading and industry sources said.
Zhu had also set the price, sources close to the process said, though one of them added: "He's no fool, he knows he won't sell a pound at that price ($170 a tonne) today".
Corn exports were discussed earlier this year and spurred farmers and traders to ship up to two million tonnes to Dalian to await the green light.
Fear of fuelling inflation and of leaving reserves low in case of an emergency stopped Zhu short of allowing exports, Western grain industry executives who have met with Zhu said.
This saw China miss out on the chance of earning enormous amounts of money -- $175-180 a tonne -- and buying back if necessary in the current cheaper market.
"It's great for the feed industry," the Chinese source said of the prevailing situation, echoing other sources who say Chinese feed mills are buying corn hand-to-mouth as prices drop.
"And for American farmers -- they must love the Chinese government," he said.
One day after rival bidders sent its stock on a rollercoaster ride, Conrail Inc was set Tuesday to formally consider a $9 billion takeover offer from Norfolk Southern Corp.
The company's board of directors was widely expected to reject the unsolicited Norfolk Southern offer in favor of a friendly $8.4 billion deal with CSX Corp.
"My guess is, at this point, that they stick with the CSX proposal," said Brian Routledge of Prudential Securities .  
Conrail's board was slated to meet Tuesday ahead of a Wednesday deadline to respond to the Norfolk Southern offer.
A Conrail spokesman declined to comment on the timing of its decision, but Wall Street experts expected the company to issue an announcement on Wednesday.
Conrail agreed on Oct. 15 to be bought by CSX in a cash and stock transaction valued at $8.4 billion, or $92.50 per share. Norfolk launched its $100-per-share bid on Oct. 23.
Since then, Norfolk Southern and CSX have vehemently attacked each other's offers and landed in court.  
The CSX-Norfolk Southern relationship between took a new twist Monday when the companies announced they were holding discussions about their bids, but offered conflicting accounts about the talks. Uncertainty about those talks prompted sharp stock declines on Monday.
Industry experts said Conrail is likely to defend the lower CSX bid by citing the strategic benefits of the transaction and the lack of potential legal problems associated with the friendly deal. Legal expoerts have said that Pennsylvania takeover law could impede a Norfolk Southern acquisition of Conrail.  
Experts also speculated that Conrail may try to convince CSX to sweeten its offer in an attempt to appease shareholders who may be upset by the rejection of a higher bid.
Railroad industry experts have said that CSX likely cannot afford to match Norfolk Southern's $100 cash offer, but may be able to restructure the bid to increase the cash portion of the transaction.
"I think it is a strong likelihood that any positive reaction from Conrail's bid toward the Norfok Southern bid will force CSX to sweeten their bid," said Carole Neely of Brown Brothers Harriman.
Boeing Co. is expected to use the biennial Farnborough Air Show in England next week to formally launch the long-awaited stretch version of its 747 jumbo jet, industry analysts say.
While officials of the aerospace giant remain tight-lipped, analysts say it is all but certain executives will make a major announcement on Monday regarding two new members of the 747 family that will be known as the 747-500 and 747-600.
"They're going to announce the airplanes -- there is no doubt," said Joe Campbell, an analyst at Lehman Bros.
He said the only question was whether Boeing would announce massive orders of $10 billion or more from launch customers or merely disclose that its board of directors had given authorization to offer the jet.
The announcement of the new models, which would include a jet with 30 percent more capacity than today's largest commercial airliner, is expected to be the highlight of the air show, frequently the stage for major order announcements and other industry news.
Boeing officials have said they are talking with at least six airlines about the potential new versions of the jumbo jet, including British Airways Plc, Singapore Airlines Ltd. and UAL Corp.'s United Airlines.
Boeing President Phil Condit said the company's board of directors discussed the new plane at a regularly scheduled meeting Monday but had not made a decision on whether to launch it.
"That will depend on airline orders," he said in a brief interview Tuesday.
Specifications being circulated within the industry call for the 747-600 to hold 548 passengers in a typical three-class configuration with a range of up to 8,900 miles (14,300 km), compared with 416 passengers and 8,400 miles (13,500 km) for the current-generation 747-400.
The long-range 747-500 would hold 462 passengers in three classes and have a range of up to 10,000 miles (16,000 km).
Analysts say the 747 stretch is essential for Boeing to continue dominating the lucrative top end of the market -- which it has had to itself since the introduction of the four-engine jumbo jet in 1970, which nearly bankrupted the company.
Now Boeing's own new 777 twin-engine jet is replacing older 747s, and possible new versions of jets from rivals Airbus Industrie and McDonnell Douglas Corp. could threaten the lower end of the jumbo market.
"They really do need to be able to move up to again have a position of complete monopoly for the aircraft as they have had for a number of years," said analyst Paul Nisbet of JSA Research.
Meanwhile Airbus has signaled that it intends to go ahead with plans for its own all-new 550-seat plane, dubbed the 3XX, although analysts question whether the market for jumbo jets is big enough for two manufacturers.
"From an economic point of view, I don't think there's enough demand to justify the $10 (billion) to $15 billion cost" of an all-new jet, said Bill Whitlow of Pacific Crest Securities.
He and other analysts said they expect air travel in the fast-growing Pacific region to follow the Atlantic in migrating to pairs of smaller cities rather than routes between world capitals that require the largest jets.
The trend toward such more thinly traveled routes was among the reasons cited by Boeing when it shelved a project to jointly develop with Airbus a double-decker airliner that would hold up to 800 passengers.
But Lehman's Campbell predicted Europe's Airbus, which is transforming itself from a consortium into a single company, would go ahead with its own jumbo jet for commercial delivery in 2003, about three years after Boeing's new 747 models.
"They're not going to leave Boeing alone at the upper end," he said.
Campbell estimated that Boeing's 747 revision, which would include a new wing, new engines and possible new cockpit electronics, would cost from $5 billion to $8 billion to develop.
Rolls-Royce Plc has said it plans to offer a variant of its Trent turbofan engine to power the new Boeing craft, while rivals General Electric Co. and United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit have formed a joint venture to develop an alternative power plant.
French holding company CGIP said on Tuesday it was buying 20 percent of car parts manufacturer Valeo, solving a problem which has occupied the government, France's car makers and Italian businessman Carlo de Benedetti.
Cerus, a French investment firm controlled by de Benedetti, sold the 20 percent stake to Compagnie Generale d'Industrie et de Participations (CGIP), for a sum which could total 6.7 billion francs, if Valeo hits 1997 profit targets.
The Valeo stake has been on the market for a year, as Cerus sought to raise cash to reduce debts, and sparked U.S. interest which set off alarms among European car makers. French industry minister, Franck Borotra, said he wanted a "French solution" for the Valeo holding.
But the Valeo purchase was made because "it is good for our group, our shareholders and for Valeo," CGIP chairman Ernest-Antoine Seilliere told a news conference, explaining why his company chose to become the lead shareholder in Valeo.
The Valeo purchase was driven by CGIP's desire to rebalance its portfolio away from the packaging business, in which CGIP had 49 percent of assets following the acquisition of U.S. Crown Cork &amp; Seal shares last year in exchange for its interest in CarnaudMetalbox.
CGIP halved its stake in Crown Cork to 9.9 percent last month and with the 3.2 billion franc proceeds, helped pay for the holding in Valeo, which has significant growth potential, Seilliere said. These were "parallel operations" he said.
The question of keeping Valeo in French hands did not figure in its calculations. "It's not our problem," he said.
CGIP wants Valeo to adopt a more generous dividend policy, pursue acquisitions more aggresively and use debt financing to leverage its financial results.
"We will ask for a payout of a third of the net," Seilliere said. Valeo has historically paid out 15 to 18 percent of net profit, while the average on the Paris stock exchange is 35 to 40 percent.
The CGIP move seemed to have borne fruit as Valeo said as part of the acquisition announcement it will make an exceptional 10 franc dividend later this month, for which Cerus would still be the beneficiary.
But Valeo's chairman Noel Goutard emphasised "There is no change in direction," he told a separate news conference. The priority will be a "strong and healthy balance sheet," and the company will pay particular attention to pursuing "controlled and profitable growth," he said.
He added that Valeo had relied on its own resources in the past as Cerus did not want to see its 28 percent stake diluted in any capital raising in the markets.
With the new ownership structure, Valeo would be free to tap the markets for funds when it saw acquisition opportunities.
French car industry analysts said the deal was good news for all involved. Valeo had a solid partner in CGIP to develop on its own, even if this would not rule out a merger with another car parts firm in several years as the industry changed.
In the deal, Valeo, Europe's second largest car parts maker and a leading supplier of French and German carmakers, said it would make a 1996 dividend downpayment of 10 francs. Another payout of 10 francs per share would be made to Cerus if Valeo's 1997 net attributable profit hits 1.45 billion francs.
Shares in CGIP closed 3.93 percent higher at 1,190 francs while Valeo ended 2.64 percent. Cerus was down 7.29 percent at 127.10 francs.
A motto of Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft Corp., has been: "A computer on every desk running Microsoft software."
With that goal almost accomplished, Microsoft executives have set their sights on other flat surfaces, such as the kitchen counter, the living room's entertainment console and the back of airline seats.
At a Los Angeles conference for professional programmers, Microsoft executives outlined the company's plans to take its Windows family of operating systems into more types of computers, such as subway token vending machines, handheld portables and arcade video games.
The company also said it plans to spend much of its research and development budget to automate management tasks of personal computers and to simplify the machines' operations.
In recent weeks, Microsoft's competitors Sun Microsystems Inc. and Oracle Corp. have outlined their plans to build new types of computers, called network computers, that are simpler and cheaper to use than personal computers.
At Monday's Professional Developers Conference, Microsoft executives said future versions of its Windows -- which control about 80 percent of the world's desktop computers -- will do the same things.
"We are focusing now on the investments people have put in their computing technology and on increasing their returns," said Paul Maritz, Microsoft group vice president.
Maritz demonstrated software products that can recognize spoken commands. He also demonstrated programs that automatically take care of network chores without human help.
Features like these will help companies get more out of their investment in Microsoft products already in place, Maritz said.
He also demonstrated how programmers can use Windows in non-traditional types of computers. He showed a bullet-proof vending machine for New York subways that uses Windows software to dispense fares on smart cards.
British Petroleum Co Plc (BP) extolled the virtues of "self help" on Tuesday as it reported its best-ever third quarter earnings despite pressure on profit margins in some key businesses.
Third-quarter net earnings jumped by 22 percent to 650 million pounds ($1.07 billion), towards the top end of forecasts, while in the first nine months of the year they were up 28 percent to a record 1.93 billion pounds.
BP said strong oil prices, which have recently been at their highest levels since the 1991 Gulf War at around $22 a barrell, boosted earnings by between $400 million-$500 million in the third quarter.
But it added that the gains were more than offset by weaker profit margins in refining, marketing and chemicals, which accounted for about 27 percent of group net earnings.
Group chief executive John Browne said BP was enjoying the benefits of a raft of cost-cutting and efficiency drives, which were adding $150 million to profit every quarter.
"What we see here has not come about as a result of high oil prices, it has come about as a result of self help," he said.
The market took the results calmly, with BP shares adding two pence to close at 640.5 pence after touching a high of 647p. However, trading in BP shares on the options market was active.
"People are still speculating on a fairly sharp rise in BP shares," one options specialist said.
"In a sense BP have spoilt us," said Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull analyst Irene Himona.
"We've got used to them coming out with a good set of numbers at the top of the range, and unfortunately with (rival) Shell it is the other way around."
BP's results contrasted with disappointment last week at third-quarter figures from rival Royal Dutch/Shell Group, where profits fell on the back of low refining margins and a weak chemicals market.
BP also emphasised the relative stability in its earnings, partly as a result of the vigorous cost-cutting at its exploration and production activities.
"They are very much on the ball and very focused. They have achieved a lot of efficiency improvements and delivered a lot of savings," said Himona.
BP was upbeat about near term propsects, with oil demand expected to remain strong into 1997. But it said its long-term view that the oil price would settle back into arange of $16 to $18 a barrell had not changed. "The question is how we get from here to there," said Browne.
Morgan Stanley analyst Chris Buckley said the oil price was always the greatest uncertainty, but added that lower prices tended to mean margins could improve in downstream activities like chemicals and refining.
British fund management group Mercury Asset Management on Tuesday posted a 29 percent jump in first half pretax profits to 81.8 million pounds ($133.9 million), up from 63.6 million in the first half last year.
It also saw its cash pile rise sharply to 261.6 million pounds from 189.9 million at the end of March, raising speculation that the firm might use the surplus to fund expansion in the lucrative U.S. fund management industry.
MAM chairman Hugh Stevenson said the company would consider acquisitions but only if they increased value for shareholders.
Asked if MAM was considering a U.S. acquisition, where MAM already operates, Stevenson said: "The US is obviously an extremely important market, it's the biggest savings market in the world but value for our shareholders is the main aim."
On the cash pile, Stevenson said that the company prefers a conservative balance sheet.
"Cash has risen materially in the last six months," he said. "It's a question of a balance between a prudent balance sheet and returning value in the form of dividends to shareholders. We've had a very progressive dividend policy over recent years."
Mercury, formerly controlled by investment bank S.G. Warburg before Warburg was bought by Swiss Bank Corp last year, raised its interim dividend to 10 pence per share from six pence last time. It said the significant increase was due to a rebalancing between interim and final payouts.
Funds under management rose to 85.9 billion pounds at the end of September after 70.9 billion at the same time last year. The most recent figure includes two billion pounds of net new business, which analysts said follows its recent growth trend.
MAM said it had seen a rise in defined contribution pension scheme business in the last six months and expected this to be a growth area.
Mercury shares were 23.5 lower at 11.19 pounds at 1130 GMT with analysts reporting some profit taking after the stock reached a year's high of 11.50 this week.
The profit figures were just under some expectations but were mostly unsurprising. Some analysts, including Martin Cross of UBS, say the shares are fully valued.
"The price/earnings ratio (at 21.6) is at the top end of the sector," Cross said. "It's near companies like Perpetual and M &amp;G which are much more retail oriented and have better grwoth prospects in my opinion."
Perpetual has a P/E ratio of 25.4 and M &amp; G 22.3.
Stevenson said it was too early to tell what effect problems at Morgan Grenfell Asset Management, where alleged irregularities are being investigated by Britain's Serious Fraud Office, might have on the funds industry in the longer term.
"It's a growth industry," Stevenson said, "and it continues to grow. The UK market is changing and we have been doing more in defined contribution business."
About two thirds of MAM's business is in the institutional pension fund management area, 20 percent for investors overseas and the rest for private investors.
Costs continued to rise but were more than matched by revenue growth.
Stevenson said the rise reflected the consolidation of its Australian subsidiary, large investment in systems and infrastructure, and "higher provision for variable remuneration" -- otherwise known as bonuses. ($1=.6107 Pound)
Japan's financial industry suffered another blow Tuesday when a court was asked to start bankruptcy proceedings against a major realtor that has estimated liabilities of almost $5.5 billion.
But analysts said that while the collapse of Osaka-based Sueno Kosan could affect some individual financial institutions, it was unlikely to have any major negative impact on the overall financial industry.
The Housing Loan Administration Corp., or HLAC, a semi-governmental body set up to collect problem loans run up by seven failed mortgage companies, said it had asked the Osaka District Court to start bankruptcy proceedings against Sueno Kosan and two of its affiliates.
If Sueno Kosan, a privately held real estate company that borrowed heavily from the "jusen" mortgage firms, is declared bankrupt, it could become one of Japan's biggest-ever business failures, analysts said.
The HLAC said it has claims totalling 347 billion yen ($3.07 billion) on Sueno Kosan and the two units. The claims were transferred from the failed jusen firms to the body.
Sueno Kosan group's total liabilities are estimated at 620 billion yen ($5.48 billion), said Tokyo Commerce and Industry Research Co, a private credit research body.
Japan's banking industry was also jolted last month when a major financing company, Nichiei Finance Co. Ltd, filed for liquidation with huge debt liabilities. Like the jusen and Sueno Kosan, Nichiei was a casualty of the property-related lending boom in the late 1980s "bubble era" and the subsequent dive in asset prices.
Although the overall damage to the financial system may be slight, analysts said individual non-bank financial institutions with outstanding loans to Sueno could suffer. A non-bank financial institution makes loans but does not take deposits, raising funds by borrowing from banks.
"Should Sueno be forced into bankruptcy and its assets distributed, many of the other lender non-banks will be forced to absorb huge losses relative to their size," said James Fiorillo, ING Baring Securities (Japan) analyst.
"This will probably force many of them (creditors) into distress or bankruptcy, so the outcome ... should be closely watched," he said.
Finance Minister Wataru Kubo did not appear to be that worried, although he told reporters the Sueno Kosan problem might spread to financial firms that had lent it money.
"However, such an impact will be resolved among related financial institutions in accordance with our financial system," he said.
In June, Japan adopted a controversial plan that allowed for the use of 685 billion yen ($6.06 billion) in public funds to help wind up the jusen.
John McGrath, chief executive of drinks and food company Grand Metropolitan, said the company should be able to return cash to shareholders in 1998 when its debt will be at least one billion pound lighter.
"By early next year our debt should be down in the low to middle two billion (stg) area and interest cover will be seven times or thereabouts. But we cannot afford buybacks at the moment. They depend entirely on our ability to sweat our assets and our ability to throw off enough cash in the next financial year."  
Market forecasts for 1997 pre-tax profits centre on a range of 1.04-1.06 billion stg for the full year to September 30, 1997 with many brokers cutting their estimates as sterling started its run up against the dollar in May. Estimates for GrandMet's 1996 pretax profits are bunched around the 980 million stg mark.
"We are really being hit by the dollar at the moment. At a rate of 1.60 it will hit us by about 16 million pounds a year, assuming this rate continues into 1997," McGrath said.
The dollar stood at 1.493 against the pound on May 1 before climbing to its 1.638 level today.
Pillsbury, GrandMet's U.S. foods business and Burger King generate about 60 percent of group earnings in dollars.
At GrandMet's spirits arm International Distillers and Vitners price rises have "stuck very well, probably better than they have done in a decade. Volumes are also up and we have had a good year in the U.S."
"I think what will surprise the competition will be our performance in Europe," he said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Fund management Group Mercury Asset management will make acquisitions if it can enhance shareholder value, its chairman Hugh Stevenson said on Tuesday after announcing bumper profits and a sharp jump in its cash pile.
Profits rose 29 percent to 81.8 million stg from 63.6 million stg in the first half last year while cash rose to 261.6 million stg from 189.9 million at the end of March.  
Asked if MAM was considering a U.S. acquisition, Stevenson said: "The U.S. is obviously an extremely important market, it's the biggest savings market in the world but value for our shareholders is the main aim."
Stevenson said an acquisition which enhanced this value would have to be considered.
On the cash pile, Stevenson said that the company prefers a conservative balance sheet.
"Cash has risen materially in the last six months," Stevenson said.  
"It's a question of a balance between a prudent balance sheet and returning value in the form of dividends to shareholders. We've had a very progressive dividend policy over recent years."
Stevenson said the rise in the interim dividend to 10 pence per share from six pence last time reflected a desire to rebalance the interim and final payout.
He was unsure if this rebalancing was complete given the uncertainty of how the full year will turn out.  
Stevenson refused to comment on the state of world equity markets and thus the company's prospects for the second half, "We tend to reserve comments on the markets for our clients."
But in a statement earlier, he said the firm was determined to create value through profitable expansion notwithstanding short-term market movements.
MAM again showed that it is not missing its tie to former owner S.G. Warburg which was cut when the latter was gobbled up by Swiss Bank Corp last year.  
Stevenson said the first half had been positive with funds under management rising to 85.9 billion stg from 70.9 billion at the same point last year and 81 billion at the end of March.
The current figure included 2.0 billion stg of net new business which was lower than the 2.5 billion stg seen in the second half of last year.
He said it was too early to tell what effect problems at Morgan Grenfell Asset Management, where alleged irregularities are being investigated by the Serious Fraud Office, might have on the industry in the longer term.
"It's a growth industry," Stevenson said, "and it continues to grow. The UK market is changing and we have been doing more in defined contribution business."
About two thirds of MAM's business is in the institutional pension fund management area, 20 percent for investors overseas and the rest for private investors.
Costs continued to rise but were more than matched by revenue growth.
Stevenon said the rise reflected the consolidation of its Australian subsidiary; large investment in systems and infrastructure; and the coyly termed "higher provision for variable remuneration", otherwise known as bonuses. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864.
British consumers are feeling better, they are spending more on leisure, and the upward trend is set to roll for at least another two years, said Whitbread chief executive Peter Jarvis.
"The markets in which we operate are better than they have been for many years. People are feeling better. House prices are rising again, the job situation is better and they have seen personal tax decreases this year," Jarvis said in an interview.
Earlier Whitbread posted a 14 percent rise in half year pretax profits to 177.5 million, beating analysts forecasts.  
"I think the consumer position in Britain is favourable for at least two or three years. Unless we have some kind of catastrophe, the prospects in Britain are good. All the economic predictions from the banks point to low inflation and growing consumer confidence," said Jarvis.
He said the outlook was unlikely to be affected by the government's budget statement on November 26 or if the opposition Labour Party wins the next general election. Labour have pledged to introduce a national minimum wage.
"I'm on the record as being in favour of a national minimum wage. I hope and believe it will be set at a reasonable level."  
Whitbread's workforce comprises 42,000 full-time and 33,000 part-time staff, with many working in catering.
The company's hotels business doubled profits and sales in the six months to August 31. Like-for-like sales were up by 11 percent with occupancy levels and room rates much higher.
"The number of foreign tourists to Britain is growing very, very fast. They spent 13 to 14 billion pounds last year and half of that in London."
"That's been growing very fast in the last 10 years and its forecast by Henley (forecasting centre) to be the fastest growing sector of the leisure market."  
Americans stayed at Whitbread's Marriot hotels for the first time in the half year.
"We never had effective marketting in the U.S. for our hotels before. This link up with Marriott in the States gives us a great marketing power. And they are in really attractive places for American visitors like Stratford-upon-Avon and Edinburgh. So we have seen a huge influx of Americans and in many places it has put five extra points on occupancy levels."
Whitbread acquired health and sports club group David Lloyd Leisure for 200 million stg and a chain of 16 Marriott hotels in Britain for some 185 million in August 1995.  
The company also owns a chain of about 130 low budget Travel Inns, which Jarvis said will be added at the rate of about one every 10 days to reach 300 by the end of the year 2000.
Whitbread plans to expand its hotel presence in London by converting County Hall and bringing Travel Inns into the capital. Consumers also spent more eating out during the half year with Pizza Hut, jointly owned with Pepsico, and TGI Friday's sales ahead by about 20 percent. The Beefeater chain of restaurants increased like-for-like sales three pecent and profit by 7 percent.  
Whitbread Inns, which includes casual dining out pub chain Brewers Fayre, saw profits grow by 15 percent to 77.4 million and total sales by 14 percent.
"The main driving force on like-for-like sales is on food pubs and restaurants and we also opened a lot more new places that appeal to people who would not normally go to pubs," said Jarvis.
The group thinks it can add about 40 new Pelican's a year -- the Pelican Group acquired for 133 million in July owns French bistro style cafes the Dome and Cafe Rouge -- bringing the total to about 300.  
"The most satisfying thing for me is the capital we have put into new businesses and invested in them has paid off. They have all performed well."
Whitbread now owns "three to four strong concepts that will give us good growth for the next three to four years."
Whitbread, which confirmed last week it was in talks with BrightReasons about buying its pizza and pasta chains, hopes to agree on terms this month, said Jarvis.
BrightReasons owns a 180-strong chain of restaurants trading as Bella Pasta, Pizza Piazza and Pizzaland.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
The UK telecoms market is one of the world's most competitive and any attempt to block a planned $20 billion merger between British Telecom and U.S. firm MCI on grounds of restricted trade will fail, analysts said.
The merger partly hinges on how open the UK market is deemed to be because U.S. rules bar foreign groups from buying more than 25 percent of a U.S. firm unless their home market is deemed to be as competitive as that of the United States.
If it is approved, the merger between BT and America's MCI announced on Sunday to create Concert Plc will represent the largest cross-border takeover in history and the world's second biggest international telephone group.
U.S. telecommunications market leader AT&amp;T, which stands to lose most from such a new heavyweight rival, has urged regulatory authorities to give the planned deal with MCI, the number two U.S. carrier, the "scrutiny it deserves."
But analysts said it was unrealistic for AT&amp;T, British Telecom's arch-rival in international markets, to say that the British market was not competitive enough.
One industry analyst, asked whether he thought the proposed deal would be cleared, said: "Ultimately, I think it will be approved. But some tinkering may be required."
"I don't think it's realistic for AT&amp;T to argue that the market in the UK isn't open -- or that the market in the U.S. is any better," said one analyst who declined to be named.
Britain's market is more open than those of its European neighbours, most of which will only abolish state monopolies over telecoms services by January 1, 1998.
The European Commission cleared the BT's acquisition of its initial 20 percent stake in MCI three years ago.
The merger between BT and MCI to form Concert Plc will have to be approved by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission and Britain's Department of Trade and Industry.
Although BT still controls more than 90 percent of all local UK telephone connections, analysts said there were few barriers to foreign companies wanting to compete here.
AT&amp;T is already planning to establish a foothold in the UK market since the international partnership between BT and Cable and Wireless unit Mercury ended earlier this year.
AT&amp;T has also been tipped as likely to forge alliances with UK cable companies in the local market as well as with mobile networks and new operators such as Cambridge-based Ionica.
A spokeswoman for UK telecoms regulator Oftel said it was too early to say which obstacles stood in the way of BT and MCI completing the proposed deal by the end of next year.
Japan's financial industry suffered another blow on Tuesday when a court was asked to start bankruptcy proceedings against a major realtor which has estimated liabilities of almost $5.5 billion.
But analysts said that while the collapse of Osaka-based Sueno Kosan could affect some individual financial institutions, it was unlikely to have any major negative impact on the overall financial industry.
The Housing Loan Administration Corp (HLAC), a semi-governmental body set up to collect problem loans run up by seven failed mortgage companies, said on Tuesday it had asked the Osaka District Court to start bankruptcy proceedings against Sueno Kosan and two of its affiliates.
If Sueno Kosan, an unlisted real estate company which borrowed heavily from the "jusen" mortgage firms, is declared bankrupt, it could become one of Japan's biggest ever business failures, analysts said.
The HLAC said it has claims totalling 347 billion yen ($3.07 billion) on Sueno Kosan and the two units. The claims were transferred from the failed jusen firms to the body.
In total, Sueno Kosan group's liabilities are estimated at 620 billion yen ($5.48 billion), said Tokyo Commerce and Industry Research Co, a private credit research body.
Japan's banking industry was also jolted last month when a major financing company, Nichiei Finance Co Ltd, filed for liquidation with huge debt liabilities. Like the jusen and Sueno Kosan, Nichiei was a casualty of the property-related lending boom in the late 1980s "bubble era" and the subsequent dive in asset prices.
The Osaka court has taken steps to seize the assets of Sueno Kosan and its affiliates in response to the application, the HLAC statement said. There was no immediate comment from Sueno Kosan on the moves.
Although the overall damage to the financial system may be slight, analysts said individual non-bank financial institutions with outstanding loans to Sueno could suffer. A non-bank financial institution makes loans but does not take deposits, raising funds by borrowing from banks.
"Should Sueno be forced into bankruptcy and its assets distributed, many of the other lender non-banks will be forced to absorb huge losses relative to their size," said James Fiorillo, ING Baring Securities (Japan) analyst.
"This will probably force many of them (creditors) into distress or bankruptcy, so the outcome...should be closely watched," he said.
Finance Minister Wataru Kubo did not appear to be that worried, although he told reporters the Sueno Kosan problem might spread to financial firms that had lent it money.
"However, such an impact will be resolved among related financial institutions in accordance with our financial system," he said.
Noboru Matsuda, governor of the Deposit Insurance Corp of Japan (DIC), which supervises the HLAC, said in a statement that it was inevitable such action would be taken against some "malignant" borrowers like Sueno, which he said had repeatedly attempted to hide assets.
In June, Japan adopted a controversial plan that allowed for the use of 685 billion yen ($6.06 billion) in public funds to help wind up the jusen.
The HLAC inherited assets totalling 6.5 trillion yen ($57.5 billion) from the failed firms after 6.4 trillion yen ($56.6 billion) worth of unrecoverable loans were written off with the help of financial institutions and public money. ($1=113 yen)
Beijing accused the United States on Tuesday of pursuing hostile policies towards China and defended a campaign to boost patriotism as a shield against aggressive foreign forces.
"In the last few years the United States has pursued antagonistic policies toward China," said the official People's Daily, mouthpiece of China's ruling Communist Party.
"U.S. media circles have spared no effort to attack and sully China," it said as disarmament talks between Chinese and U.S. officials entered a second day in Beijing.
U.S. Undersecretary of State Lynn Davis began talks on arms proliferation in the Chinese capital on Monday, part of a visit seen as a vital step towards rebuilding ties long strained by disputes over trade, human rights, copyright piracy and Taiwan.
Both sides, however, say relations have warmed in recent months after a string of high-level meetings. But the Chinese state press has continued to issue harshly worded condemnations of U.S. policies and individuals seen as hostile to Beijing.
In an angry reaction to an article in the New York Times on October 24 by former U.S. ambassador to China James Lilley, People's Daily slammed the U.S. media for unfriendly reporting that was harming vital cross-Pacific ties.
In his signed opinion piece, Lilley wrote that the loss of communism's appeal in China had left a vacuum that was being filled by nationalist xenophobia, but warned that nationalism was a dangerous road to take.
People's Daily said no such warning was required.
"(Some Westerners) see Chinese people's patriotism as being narrow-minded nationalism that will be catastrophic for the West and must quickly be discarded," it said.
Over 100 years of abuse at the hands of imperial powers had taught Chinese how to be patriotic without straying into blind xenophobia, it said.
Washington's anti-Chinese actions did not stop at thwarting Beijing's bid to hold the 2000 Olympics or at U.S. threats over human rights, trade or nuclear proliferation, it said.
Chinese feelings had been badly hurt by outrages such as Washington's dispatch of two aircraft carriers to the seas near Taiwan in March, it added.
Washington sent the aircraft carrier battlegroups to monitor intimidatory war games and missile tests carried out by China near Taiwan in the run-up to the island's first direct presidential elections, a decision that infuriated Beijing.
"It is this kind of pressure from the United States and other Western countries that has inspired the enthusiasm of the Chinese people's patriotism," People's Daily said.
"This kind of intense spontaneous reaction to interference by foreign forces is an ordinary manifestation of the Chinese people's patriotism," it said.
"Only when the motherland is strong and prosperous can the interference and aggression of outside forces be fundamentally resisted and forestalled," it said.
Analysts say Beijing is keen to boost nationalist sentiment in China to fill an ideological vacuum caused by the rush from strict communist values to a market-style economy.
Repeated calls for more patriotism have been accompanied by repeated state media diatribes against the United States and by a mass campaign for a return to orthodox socialist values.
China's state debt has become the top investment choice among local investors in 1996, thanks to a slew of market reform measures, but further reforms are needed to ensure a continued boom, analysts said on Tuesday.
Beijing ended a record issue of 195.2 billion yuan ($23.52 billion) worth of treasury bills and bonds for 1996 last Friday when it allocated the last batch of the seven-year bond to underwriters.
Analysts said the instruments had become best sellers this year mainly due to reforms of the process for issuing treasury bills and bonds.
"The most important has been the widespread adoption of a public tender system," said one T-bill trader. "This has made the coupons on state debt more reflective of market changes and needs."
Beijing had, in the past, allowed the Finance Ministry to decide the coupon rates and use adminstrative edict to allocate state debt to banks and other financial institutions for them to sell. But this year, the ministry organised public tenders for each new bond issue.
Under the new system, about 75 percent of each new batch was distributed to bidders according to the interest rates and amounts lodged by the bidders in public tenders. The rest was distributed according to adminstrative decision.
The coupons were largely based on the weighted averages of the valid bids at the public tenders, but industry sources said the ministry also "fine-tuned" them to some extent to come up with the final rates.
"The ministry usually raised the coupons to some extent to make it easier to sell the state debt," said one source. "This resulted in many underwriters retaining the bonds themselves to gain easy profits when the bonds were listed."
"Individual investors were in many cases disappointed when they were unable to buy the bonds even after standing in line for many hours," said a second T-bill trader. "This hurt their enthusiasm, with institutions making most of the profits."
Analysts said there is room for further improvement in the government's method of issuing debt.
They said they want to see a reduction in the proportion of the bond issues held back from the public tenders.
Another improvement would be if the ministry used market means to encourage the underwriters to sell a greater proportion of the bonds they obtained, and not hold them on their own account, the analysts said.
However, the market's maturity spectrum expanded as its popularity grew. A greater variety of bills and bonds have been issued this year -- three-month, seven-year and 10-year issues have been added to the traditional six-month, one-year, three-year and five-year bonds.
Also, discount bonds, sold at below face value with the pay-back at face value on maturity, were introduced for the first time.
Yet another innovation was the payment of interest on an annual basis instead of on maturity, for the first-ever seven-year bond and the 10-year bond.
"This method of payment allows investors to re-invest their interest and has been widely welcomed," said Lu Weiming, a T-bill trader with China Guotai Securities. "Its success is likely to lead the central government to use it more and more in future bond issues."
Chinese analysts believe Beijing will issue a new record amount of T-bills and T-bonds next year, probably around 250 billion yuan.
But they said this amount as a proportion of China's gross domestic product is still below that of advanced western countries.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
The collapse of a major real estate company which borrowed heavily from Japan's "jusen" mortgage firms would be unlikely to have any major negative impact on the financial industry, analysts said on Tuesday.
Earlier on Tuesday, a semi-governmental body set up to collect problem loans run up by the "jusen" companies said it was seeking the involuntary bankruptcy of unlisted real estate firm Sueno Kosan.
The Housing Loan Administration Corp (HLAC) made the request to an Osaka court.  
"The action has been already factored in (to the financial markets)," said Takakazu Nakamori, an official at credit research firm Teikoku Databank.
He said the Finance Ministry appeared to have recognised the problem and given the go-ahead for the forced bankruptcy.
Yushiro Ikuyo, first vice president at Smith Barney International, said the loan body was taking the right course of action, given the severity of the Sueno Kosan problem.  
Banks which had loans to the failed jusen firms and related companies like Sueno Kosan have mostly made loan loss provisions, as well as forgiving loans under the government's scheme to wind up the firms, he said. Those creditors will not have any problem from the expected insolvency, he said.
The HLAC said in a statement that it had also asked the Osaka District Court to start bankruptcy proceedings for two of Sueno Kosan's affiliates. The court has taken steps to seize their assets in response to the application, it also said.
The application also sought bankruptcy proceedings against three individuals associated with the firm, including president Kenichi Sueno, the HLAC said in its statement.  
The HLAC said it has claims totalling 347 billion yen on Sueno Kosan and two of its group firms. The claims were transferred from the failed jusen firms to the body, it said.
In June, Japan adopted a framework that allowed for the use of 685 billion yen of public money to help wind up the jusen.
The HLAC inherited assets totalling 6.5 trillion yen from the seven failed firms after 6.4 trillion yen worth of unrecoverable loans were written off with the help of financial institutions and public money.
Katsuhito Sasajima, a Nikko Research Centre analyst, said the action by the body was good news.  
"The insolvency of Sueno is not a matter of damage to the financial system... Rather, the market would probably appreciate the action as such legal procedures are transparent," Nikko's Sasajima said.
An HLAC official quoted a senior official of the Deposit Insurance Corp of Japan (DIC) as telling reporters in Osaka that the decision to seek the insolvency was taken after consultation with the Finance Ministry and that the move would not greatly affect the financial system as a whole.  
But although the overall damage to the financial system may be slight, analysts said individual non-bank financial institutions with outstanding loans to Sueno could suffer.
"Should Sueno be forced into bankrutpcy and its assets distributed, many of the other lender non-banks will be forced to absorb huge losses relative to their size," ING Baring Securities (Japan) analyst James Fiorillo said.
If Sueno Kosan is declared bankrupt, it would be one of the biggest Japanese insolvencies on record, analysts said.
"This will probably force many of them (creditors) into distress or bankruptcy, so the outcome...should be closely watched," Fiorillo said. In total, the Sueno Kosan group has liabilities of about 600 billion yen, he added.
Several analysts said that a non-bank institution, Apollo Leasing Co Ltd, may be affected. An official at Apollo said that the company has loans to Sueno Kosan and will try to figure out the impact of its collapse. He did not give further details. Non-bank financial institutions make loans but do not take deposits, borrowing money instead from banks.
There was no immediate comment from Sueno Kosan itself about the move by the loan-collecting body.  
A survey by the Tokyo Commerce and Industry Research Co, a private sector research arm, said Apollo Leasing had 21.13 billion yen in loans to Sueno as of the end of December 1995.
Other major creditors to Sueno at the end of last December included Inter-Lease Corp with claims of 5.35 billion yen, All Corp with 6.0 billion yen and Crown Leasing Corp with 17.6 billion yen, the research body said.
Analysts said the non-bank financial institutions had undertaken restructuring programmes by asking creditors to do such things as cut interest payments on loans and delay principal payments.
A loan-collecting body said on Tuesday it was seeking the involuntary bankruptcy of a major real estate firm, the latest shock to the country's financial system from the long-running "jusen" mortgage firm scandal.
If Osaka-based Sueno Kosan were declared bankrupt it would be one of the biggest Japanese business failures on record, financial industry sources said. The firm has estimated total liabilities of 670 billion yen ($5.87 billion).
The sources said the bankruptcy could lead to problems at financial firms that have loaned money to Sueno Kosan.
The bankruptcy request was made to the Osaka District Court by the semi-governmental Housing Loan Administration Corp (HLAC), set up to collect problem loans run up by the "jusen" group of home loan firms.
Sueno Kosan is a major borrower from the "jusen" mortgage firms, which collapsed under the weight of rash property loans made during the "bubble" economy of the 1980s.
Finance Minister Wataru Kubo also said the Sueno Kosan problem was likely to spread to financial firms that had lent it money. "However, such an impact will be resolved among related financial institutions in accordance with our financial system," he said.
Jitters about problems in the banking industry helped push up the price of Japanese government bonds to record levels on Tuesday.
The filing was somewhat expected. Kohei Nakabo, president of the HLAC, told reporters recently the body was considering taking such action.
Japanese media reported recently that the corporation was considering such a move because of alleged attempts to transfer Sueno Kosan assets to affiliates.
In September, Sueno Kosan chief Kenichi Sueno pleaded guilty in the Osaka District Court to charges that he and some aides hid assets to prevent them being seized by creditors.
The Sueno group was the second-largest borrower from the mortgage firms.
Media reports have said it borrowed 236.7 billion yen ($2.07 billion) from five of the seven jusen and about 300 billion yen ($2.63 billion) from 10 other financial institutions.
Noboru Matsuda, governor of the Deposit Insurance Corp of Japan (DIC), which supervises the loan-collecting body, said in a statement that DIC has no intention of seeking the bankruptcy of every borrower from the jusen firms.
But he said that taking such action would be inevitable for some "malignant" borrowers like Sueno which he said had repeatedly attempted to hide assets.
Sueno Kosan officials were not immediately able to comment.
Japan's financial industry has made progress in tackling the problem of bubble-era loans gone bad, but analysts say some smaller loan institutions heavily exposed to the real estate and construction industries remain vulnerable.
The collapse of a major financing company last month, Nichiei Finance Co Ltd, with huge debt liabilities also highlighted the continuing fallout from the bad loan problem. ($1=114 yen)
Toronto stocks soared to new heights on Wednesday, powered by a rally in bank shares as foreign investors stampeded into Canada's financial markets, lured by falling interest rates and a recovering Canadian economy.
Shares in Canada's big six banks hit 52-week highs on the Toronto Stock Exchange, propelling the country's biggest stock market to its 53rd record close of 1996.
The Canadian dollar has also surged this week, hitting its strongest level since October 30, 1995.
Declining interest rates, low inflation and falling budget deficits have combined to make Canada the flavor of the month, economists said.
"Overall, foreign investors have just become enamored with Canada as a place for investment," Michael Gregory, an economist with Lehman Brothers, said in a telephone interview.
The Toronto Stock Exchange jumped 85 points to close around 5749, fueled by brisk action in interest-rate sensitive issues such as banks and utilities.
The key 300 Index has gained more than 20 percent this year, compared to about 19 percent for the Dow Jones Average and 16 percent for the Standard &amp; Poors 500.
The Bank of Canada is expected to ease interest rates again as early as this week. The central bank has cut rates 19 times since May 1995 in a bid to revive a sluggish economy.
Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen said on Wednesday that Canada's improving economy gives the central bank more latitude to set Canadian rates independent of U.S. rates.
He added Canada is now in a better position to withstand a hike in U.S. rates than it has been in recent years.
"The economic outlook is favorable. We will soon see signs of the payoff for the difficult restructuring decisions taken in both the private and public sectors," Thiessen said.
After several years of belt tightening, Canadian governments have either balanced their budgets or are on track to wipe out huge deficits.
Canada's 1.2 percent inflation rate is one of the lowest in the world and less than half the U.S. rate.
Several Canadian banks cut residential mortgage rates on Wednesday to levels not seen in about three decades.
Gregory said he expected Canada to continue to outperform the United States on the rate front and that offshore investors recognized that. "I think investors are coming to terms with the fact that Canadian interest rates -- because of low inflation and improving currency prospects -- should be below U.S. rates," he said.
"Many investors are jumping on that and the Canadian dollar is undervalued. It's cheap," Gregory said.
The Canadian currency closed around C$1.3312 (US$0.7512) on Wednesday after trading around C$1.3300 earlier in the session. The dollar broke through C$1.3300 on Tuesday, its strongest level since October 1995.
In stocks, the country's big six banks have been big beneficiaries of favorable interest rates and the overseas scramble to buy Canadian stocks.
The TSE's financial services group jumped 2.5 percent on Wednesday after soaring three percent on Tuesday. The sector has gained nearly 1,400 points since September.
Declining interest rates make bank lending more profitable and bank dividends more attractive for investors.
Soaring bank profits have also lured investors. The major banks report their year-end results in a few weeks and are on track for a third straight year of record profits.
Recent listings on the New York Stock Exchange have given Canadian banks a higher profile in the United States where they are considered cheap compared to U.S. bank stocks.
New York-based Morgan Stanley issued a bullish recommendation on two Canadian banks on Tuesday and predicted a strong fourth quarter for the entire group.
Royal Oak Mines Inc is reshaping its operations to concentrate on its low-cost gold deposits in the Timmins area and British Columbia, the company president said Wednesday.
"We have refocused our strategy to bring on very low-cost production," Peggy Witte said in an analysts' conference call. "It's very clear that's where Royal Oak's future lies."  
The Kirkland, Washington-based gold producer said Wednesday it will close down its mine in Hope Brook, Newfoundland, and write down the reserves at its Colomac mine in the Northwest Territories.
Royal Oak expects to take C$37.4 million in charges because of the Hope Brook and Colomac decisions. After tax, the charges will amount to a decrease in net income of about C$27 million or C$0.19 a share in the fourth quarter of 1996.
The company plans to move most of the mining and mill assets from Hope Brook to its Matachewan project in northern Ontario.  
"It's a very positive story for us being able to redeploy those assets, and we did not want to spread our senior management too thin," Witte said, explaining the decision.
Hope Brook will shut down in the third quarter of 1997, while Matachewan is expected to start production in the second half of 1998, Royal Oak said.
The company recently increased its gold reserves at its Timmins and Matachewan properties, decided to expand its Pamour Mill and is putting together a feasibility study for an expanded open pit in the area.  
The northern Ontario mines, along with production expected in 1998 from the Kemess copper and gold mine in British Columbia, will boost production and decrease costs significantly for Royal Oak, said chief financial officer Jim Wood.
The company expects to produce 375,000 ounces at a cash costs of US$325 an ounce in 1997. In 1998, production will rise to 500,000 ounces at a cost of US$250 or US$260 an ounce. By 1999, the company expects up to 750,000 ounces at about US$240 an ounce, and in 2000, production should be almost one million ounces with costs in the low US$200s, Wood said.  
"Although we have closed out Hope Brook cash costs are somewhat disappointing at Colomac, the future of the company, with the Pamour expansion, looks very bright for us in terms of production and our average cash costs," he said.
The company reported third quarter profits of C$10.2 million or C$0.07 a share, up from C$6.2 million or C$0.05 a share a year earlier.
Gold production rose 13 percent in the quarter to 104,012 ounces from 92,159 ounces during the third quarter last year.
The increase came from the Pamour mine in Northern Ontario, which produced higher grade ore.  
Revenue was 48 percent higher in the third quarter, mainly because of a successful hedging program. The company realized a gold price of US$543 per ounce, compared to US$418 an ounce at the same time last year.
Royal Oak expects to produce about 400,000 ounces of gold in 1996 at a cash cost of US$335 an ounce. The lower production level and increase in cash cost from previous estimates are a result of lower grade ore at Colomac.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100
Conrail Inc. Wednesday revised its takeover agreement with CSX Corp. to give shareholders more cash in the proposed railroad merger valued at nearly $8.5 billion.
The new terms immediately drew fire from investors who said the value of the cash-and-stock deal remained well below that of the rejected offer from unwelcome bidder, Norfolk Southern Corp.
Philadelphia-based Conrail, which announced its original offer on Oct. 15, said its board had considered the merits of the rival bids and reaffirmed that a merger with CSX was a superior strategic combination, despite the higher offer from Norfolk Southern.
"Our two companies have now agreed to significantly increase the value to be received by the Conrail shareholders, and Conrail's other constituencies will continue to get tremendous benefits resulting from the CSX merger," Conrail Chairman David LeVan said in a statement.
A source close to the companies said the Conrail board met until late Tuesday night and the two companies then hammered out the new agreement in the early morning hours of Wednesday.
A merger of CSX and Conrail would create one of the largest transportation companies in the world, including a rail system with some 29,000 miles (47,000 km) of track in 22 eastern states.
Under the revised offer, Richmond, Va.-based CSX will pay $110 cash per share for 40 percent of Conrail shares instead of the previous amount of $92.50. The remaining 60 percent will be exchanged at the original ratio of 1.85619 CSX shares for each Conrail share.
Based on CSX's current stock price, the deal values Conrail shares at about $93 each, or $8.46 billion compared with the original pact of $8.42 billion, market sources said.
Norfolk Southern has offered to pay $100 a share in cash, or $9.1 billion, for all of Conrail's outstanding shares.
CSX Chairman John Snow said the company's decision to raise its cash offer followed an analysis that identified at least $730 million in cost savings in a CSX-Conrail combination -- $180 million more than originally anticipated.
"Clearly, the combination of CSX and Conrail provides the best overall package of benefits to our constituencies, including customers, the communities we serve, and the public-at-large," Snow said.
But Conrail stockholders expressed opposition to the deal in a conference call with investors and Wall Street analysts. They said the new terms effectively offset recent erosion in CSX's stock price and do not significantly raise the value of the transaction.
"Some of the shareholders were really angry and said this was being crammed down their throats," said one expert on takeovers who listened to the conference call.
Other sources who participated in the call said several investors threatened to tender their shares for $110 and then vote against the proposed merger.
In addition to the price of the CSX deal, investors were also unhappy with a three-month extension of the time in which Conrail is locked into the deal. The revised pact says Conrail cannot withdraw or agree to a competing bid before July 12.
"It's an outrage. This thing is now locked up tighter than ever," said another participant.
Norfolk Southern, meanwhile, reaffirmed its offer and said it was reviewing its options.
Wall Street analysts said they expect Norfolk to raise its bid for Conrail in an effort to ignite more shareholder unrest with the proposed Conrail-CSX merger.
They speculated that Norfolk Southern could raise its $100 per share bid by as much as 10 percent without hurting its balance sheet or the benefits of a merger.
"If they raise their bid, it will be the icing on the cake. It will take a bid that is superior and widen the gap further," said Carole Neely of Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co.
"I think the price is getting rich, but I think there is at least a 50-50 chance they come back at least one more time," said Brian Routledge of Prudential Securities.
In addition to the new terms, Conrail also canceled its shareholders' meeting scheduled for Nov. 14 and said a new meeting would be held in mid-December.
It also said that, under the amended terms, CSX's tender offer's expiration date and withdrawal and proration rights were extended until midnight Nov. 20.
Stocks of high-tech companies soared Wednesday after a potentially costly ballot proposal was voted down in California, and top executives found themselves relishing their roles as political activists.
A group of top-level entrepreneurs and executives met behind closed doors Wednesday to work on a broader political alliance after the ballot measure, which would have made it easier for shareholders to file lawsuits, was defeated by a 3-1 margin.
"A year ago, this (Silicon) valley politically was naive, not involved, not organized and not effective," said John Doerr, the partner at venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers who led opposition to the ballot measure, known as Proposition 211.
The measure was promoted by a group of securities lawyers including San Diego attorney William Lerach, whose lawsuits brought on behalf of shareholders after a company's stock plunges irritate corporate executives.
But California's high-tech firms jumped into action, raising an estimated $38 million and mobilizing 5 million employees, shareholders and customers in a major grass-roots campaign in the months before election day.
That amount, coupled with $13 million spent by proponents of 211, rivaled the money spent by labor groups nationwide as they sought to put friendly legislators, mostly Democrats, in Congress.
It was also more than was needed to start up Sun Microsystems Inc., Cisco Systems Inc., and Intel Corp. combined.
Final returns show the measure lost by a 3-1 margin, which brought relief to Wall Street investors who were nervous that passage would bring a raft of shareholder lawsuits to California.
Shares of high-tech companies surged on the news, with Intel soaring $4.75 to an all-time high of $118.75 on Nasdaq. After the market closed, the company released bullish news on its fourth quarter business trends.
Texas Instruments jumped $4.25 to $53 on the New York Stock Exchange and Microsoft added $3 to $144.50 on Nasdaq.
"We defeated the jackals of Proposition 211, the carrion feeders who take away our profits," James Cramer, principal of money management firm Cramer Partners in New York, said of the stock rally.
Silicon Valley executives, who had warned of wide-scale resignations of officers and directors in California if the measure had passed, applauded its defeat and said they would support continued political activism.
John Young, acting chairman of Novell Inc., said the campaign was unprecedented among high tech firms, and could be the start of a multi-year corporate commitment.
Cisco Systems Chief Executive John Chambers said his company and others had been so focused on fast-changing high-tech markets that they had neglected politics.
"We were concerned with just doing our business and we were letting other people fight our fights for us, which is wrong," he said.
While political activism could be a distraction, it was also important to address political issues before they got out of control, he said.
"It's 'pay me now or pay me later,'" he said in an interview, predicting continued political engagement.
Doerr told chief executives, corporate lawyers and venture capitalists gathered at a celebration late on Tuesday that he expected executives now to focus on issues of fostering growth, education, legal reform and economic opportunity.
He said the anti-211 effort demonstrated Silicon Valley to be "a state of mind, not a place," which due to the spread of high-tech businesses, in effect, extends from Massachusetts to California and from Florida to Washington state.
Executives here are already talking about the prospect of another battle with plaintiff's lawyers, who are rumored to be mulling new ballot initiatives in other states, or the possibility of targeting high tech firms more narrowly.
Federal and state regulators raced Wednesday to finalize a multi-billion dollar proposal to ensure all Americans get quality and affordable phone service and that schools and libraries can hook up to the Internt.
An eight-member board of state regulators and members of the Federal Communications Commission is trying to figure out the size of a federal fund to subsidize "universal" service.
Estimates range anywhere from $4 billion to $12 billion a year. It could influence what consumers and businesses pay for their phone bills.
"Depending on how big the dollar figures are and what the recovery mechanism is, consumers may have something at stake," said Mark Cooper of the Consumer Federation of America.
The panel, established by the new telecommunications law, is scheduled to unveil its plans Thursday. Several issues are at stake, some of which were unresolved at the last minute.
"All the issues are still being discussed," said a state official requesting anonymity. "There will be sections where we need further clarification on issues."
Regulators must determine how local and long-distance companies, cable-TV operators, and other telecommunications carriers foot the bill to ensure that residents of secluded rural communities and poor inner-city areas get quality, affordable phone service.
They must spell out how the nation's schools and libraries will get hooked up to the Internet and at what cost.
And regulators must determine what roles the states and federal government will play in overseeing universal service.
The board must issue its recommendations to the FCC by Friday. The agency must then issue final rules by early May.
The nation's hundreds of local phone companies now provide universal service. It is funded in part via "access" charges that long-distance carriers such as AT&amp;T Corp. pay to hook up to the local phone network.
In 1994, local companies took in about $21 billion in interstate access charges. The seven regional Baby Bells received about $17 billion of that amount. Long-distance companies want those charges slashed.
Following are the issues the joint board is grappling with:
-- The extent to which schools and libraries should be hooked up to the Internet at discounted rates.
President Clinton has proposed giving these institutions free basic service, with the nation's communications carriers paying the tab. Members of the joint board disagree on whether every school, or every classroom, should be wired.
There also is disagreement over what discounts schools and libraries should receive.
-- The type of funding mechanism that would be used to pay for universal service. The telecom law requires that companies offering interstate phone service -- or virtually all carriers -- must foot the bill for universal service in an "equitable and non-discriminatory" manner.
A national fund will be established to pay for universal service. State regulators want the ability to establish and oversee their own funds as well. Those funds would be backed by intrastate phone revenues.
-- How to ensure phone service to low-income consumers. Poor Americans currently receive subsidized service through two plans, "Lifeline Assistance" and "Link Up America." Both are expected to be retained, expanded and improved.
-- How to determine the cost of subsidies for companies that offer phone service in high-cost, out-of-the-way areas such as rural communities.
The joint board has been examining whether to calculate such costs based on existing costs of providing such service, or a new model spelling out different "proxy" prices that would be used as a reference by regulators. The proxy prices would influence how much subsidies carriers would receive.
Norfolk Southern Corp is widely expected to raise its $9.1 billion offer for Conrail Inc in an attempt to ignite shareholder unrest over the company's acceptance of a lower offer from CSX Corp.
Industry analysts speculate that Norfolk Southern could raise its $100 per share bid by as much 10 percent without diluting its balance sheet or the benefits of a merger.
"If they raise their bid, it will put the icing on the cake. It will take a bid that is superior and widen the gap further," said Carole Neely of Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co.  
Conrail and CSX earlier revised their October merger pact to increase the amount of cash in the transaction.
Shareholders reacted angrily to the new transaction, which effectively offsets recent stock erosion and does not significantly raise the value of the transaction.
Based on the new terms, the Conrail-CSX transaction values shares of Conrail at about $8.463 billion, or $93 per share, versus an original value of $8.418 billion, or $92.50.
Wall Street analysts said Norfolk Southern, which has long pursued Conrail, will likely seek to capitalize on the shareholder dissatisfaction.  
"I do believe we will, in very short order, hear something from Norfolk Southern," said Renee Johansen of Wheat First Butch Singer.
In addition to revising its pact with CSX, Conrail formally rejected Norfolk Southern's cash bid. The CSX-Conrail agreement calls for a cash and stock transaction.
Norfolk Southern could not immediately be reached for comment on the speculation it will raise the bid. However, the company said it plans to review its options and called the CSX-Conrail pact inferior to its offer.  
"I think the price is getting rich, but I think there is at least a 50-50 chance (Norfolk Southern) comes back at least one more time," said Brian Routledge of Prudential Securities.
They also said the dissatisfaction with the new deal was not limited to traders of takeover stocks.
"I've heard similar complaints from everybody," said one analyst who did not want to be identified, referring to large institutional holders of Conrail shares.
But experts also noted a higher bid from Norfolk Southern may still not be enough to wrest the railraod from the grasp of CSX.  
Instead, Conrail's future track may be determined by a federal judge in Philadelphia who is slated to hold a November 12 hearing on a Norfolk Southern lawsuit that contends the Conrail-CSX pact is illegal.
Pennsylvania corporate law, which allows a company's board to act in the interests of groups other than shareholders, is viewed as an obstacle to Norfolk Southern's efforts to buy Conrail.
"I think the court is going to play a big role," Johansen said.
Indeed, concern about the Pennsylvania law were viewed as contributing to a decline in Norfolk Southern shares on Wendesday. The company's stock fell two to 87-1/8.
"People know it's the higher bid, but historically speaking, in most of the cases, hostile deals in the rail sector don't make it," Neely said.
Shareholders of Conrail Inc blasted the company's revised merger pact with CSX Corp, charging that the new terms fall short of a rival bid launched by Norfolk Southern Corp.
In a conference call with Conrail, several investors also threatened to tender their shares for $110 and then vote against the proposed merger, according to market sources who participated in the call.
"Some of the shareholders were really angry and said this was being crammed down their throats," said an arbitrager.  
Conrail earlier announced that it was amending the proposed merger agreement with CSX to reflect a premium in the cash portion of the transaction. Under the new terms, CSX will pay $110 cash per share for 40 percent of Conrail shares instead of the previous amount of $92.50.
The remaining 60 percent will be exchanged at the original ratio of 1.85619 CSX shares for each Conrail share.
Based on CSX's current stock price, the deal values Conrail shares at about $93, market sources said.
Norfolk Southern has offered to pay $100 cash per share for all of Conrail's outstanding shares.  
Investors also were unhappy with a three-month extension of the time in which Conrail is locked into the deal. The revised pact says the Conrail board cannot withdraw from the pact or agree to a competing transaction before July 12, 1997.
"It's an outrage. This thing is now locked up tighter than ever," said another arbitrager.
Conrail defended the revised transaction by saying it provides more strategic benefits than the offer proposed by Norfolk Southern, said people who listened to the call.
In a move that had been widely expected, Conrail also earlier formally rejected the Norfolk Southern offer.  
A source familiar with the companies involved said the Conrail board met until late Tuesday night and then hammered out the revised pact with CSX in the early morning hours of Wednesday.
Shares of CSX fell 1 to 43 amid broad market gains. Conrail stock rose 1-3/4 to 94 and Norfolk Southern shares fell 7/8 to 88-1/4.
Meanwhile, Norfolk Southern described the new CSX offer as "significantly inferior" to its proposal and reaffirmed its bid of $100 per share.
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus announced a state commission on Wednesday to attack bureaucracy in the land of Franz Kafka.
It will have a steering committee, a chairman, two vice-chairmen, two sections, six sub-commissions and more members than the Klaus's cabinet.
But Klaus denied suggestions that the new "Commission for the Removal of Bureaucratic Burden" would pour fuel on to the fire, telling a news conference that the only bureaucrat working at the commission would be a secretary. 
The other staff, numbering around 20, would perform their duties part time, said Klaus, whose cabinet has 16 members.
The Czech bureaucracy, crafted by the Austro-Hungarian empire and perfected under communism, inflicts daily misery on local and foreign residents alike.
Franz Kafka, the Prague novellist of the early 20th century, wrote of angst born of bureaucracy in such works as "The Trial" and "The Castle".
Things today do not seem much better. Applications for documents such as company registrations, licences and work permits can take weeks or months to process.
They can involve repeated visits to offices where citizens have to queue patiently sometimes for hours waiting to be summoned by often surly bureaucrats. Knocking on office doors for attention is strictly forbidden.
Klaus said the commission should aim to simplify issues like setting up a business, getting construction permits or social benefits, or dealing with tax offices.
Chairman Vladimir Budinsky, a former transport minister, indicated he was confident his commission would not gain the Czech bureaucrat's reputation for idleness.
"I believe that we will be able to find people for each section who would be ready to work," he said.
-- Prague newsroom (42 2) 24 23 0003
Dominion Resources Inc of the United States ended a day of rampant speculation on Wednesday by declaring it was interested in bidding for British power supply company East Midlands Electricity Plc.
But the U.S. group, which owns power generator and distributor Virginia Power, made clear it would walk away from making a bid if East Midlands' share price continued to rocket on Thursday.
East Midlands' share price leaped 70 1/2 pence to close at 608 pence on Wednesday, lifting the Nottingham-based group's value to more than 1.2 billion pounds, as rumour swirled around it.
In a statement published after the close of London trading, Dominion said it did not intend to make an offer at a price "much in excess" of East Midlands' closing price
Sources close to the company said that if the price "runs away tomorrow then Dominion will run away".
The sources said East Midlands had already cut costs "to the bone", adding that "the comapny needs investment to grow again".
East Midlands declined to comment on the Dominion statement.
Rumours that another bid was about to claim one of the few remaining independent regional electricity companies (RECs) in England and Wales had sent shares in the sector soaring on Wednesday.
Besides East Midlands, Yorkshire Electricity Group Plc's shares rose 15.5 pence to 754, while Southern Electric Plc jumped 21.5 pence to 669, and London Electricity Plc gained 12 1/2 to 618.
However the name of any likely bidder remained a mystery.
Dominion Resources Inc is a medium-sized player in the U.S., with a market capitalisation of around $6.6 billion and annual sales of around $4.7 billion.
As well as Virginia Power, its main subsidiary, Dominion has a number of joint generation ventures in the U.S. and internationally, notably in South America. It also has an interest in gas and real estate.
If Dominion's board does decide to go ahead with a bid it will be the latest in a line of U.S. utilities to buy into the privatised British power supply business.
Last week a unit of U.S.-based CalEnergy launched a hostile 650 million pound ($1.07 billion) bid for Northern Electric Plc.
Northern Electric, which is due to release sparkling half year results early in an attempt to attract a higher bid, saw its shares rise 1 1/2 pence to 634 pence on Thursday, adding to recent sharp gains.
Out of the 12 privatised cash-rich RECS, seven have already changed ownership -- four of them to U.S. companies.
One of Ivory Coast's largest cocoa and coffee exporters, SIFCA, will appoint a liquidator for its loss making up-country buying subsidiary, SOGEPAG, but exporters and buyers say port arrivals will not be affected.
"Our cost calculations were wrong and farmers never really caught on to our new ideas," Pierre-Dominique Blind, spokesman for SIFCA, owners of the SOGEPAG buying subsidiary, told Reuters in an interview. "We lost too much money and could not go on refinancing debts."
"Purchase volumes were too small and farmers' debts became a vicious circle," said Blind, managing director of UCEPAG, a holding company set up by SIFCA to run SOGEPAG.
SOGEPAG's warehouses could be empty for the rest of the season after a liquidator is named this week, and SIFCA would probably take back assets it wanted, he added.
Liquidation is expected to take at least three months.
Minority 33 percent shareholder DAFCI, an Ivorian exporter, was not immediately available for comment.
UCEPAG figures show cocoa purchases of 46,000 tonnes of cocoa and 9,741 tonnes of coffee in 1995/96, but other exporters said the figure was underestimated. In 1994/95 the amounts were shown as 43,000 and 9,000 tonnes.
SOGEPAG was set up in 1991 and guaranteed farmers fixed farmgate prices when world prices dipped. It paid official reference prices while other buyers paid less, said Blind.
"Our operation was based on protection against prices going down, but prices went up after 1991," he said. "The aim was to take 20 percent of the market in three years but our sales only rose by about seven percent a year."
The total Ivorian cocoa crop in 1995/96 was about 1.2 million tonnes.
Up-country buyers said SOGEPAG had not understood buying strategy upcountry. It paid cash but sometimes three days late.
"Our strategy was wrong. Farmers preferred immediate cash in hand, even if less than our prices," said Blind. "We gave prefinancing and logistical support to farmers on good terms and then they would sell to someone else."
SOGEPAG built up the number of its sites to 17 from four at its inception.
Other exporters said SOGEPAG's closure would have no effect on the market. "SIFCA and DAFCI will probably take control of the key assets and others will step in to buy whatever is sold," said one.
"We will buy some of their trucks," said one buyer. "No cocoa will be left in the bush."
SOGEPAG has 120 vehicles, mainly collection trucks and tractors it used to hire to farmers and GVCs -- farmers' cooperatives which aim to sell directly to exporters.
SIFCA's parent SIFCOM is a main distributor of Nissan vehicles.
Blind said SOGEPAG was owed 160 million CFA francs for vehicle hire at one point but only 60 million had been repaid. "Farmers saw us as a cash cow," he said. "Variable cost inflation after depreciation of the CFA also got out of hand."
He said many modern trucks on the market were too sophisticated and expensive for farmers.
Some industry analysts said farmers had made money out of SOGEPAG but did not see why a decision had been taken to close operations at this point.
"It is a pity for the farmers.  The World Bank had just approved funding for us to give them more training," said Blind. "Now they will be paid less than reference prices and many GVCs have poor little logistical expertise."
Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer, opened its 1996/97 cocoa marketing season on October 24, setting farmgate cocoa prices unchanged at 320 CFA per bagged kg but delaying an announcement on guideline buyers and exporters rates.
($1=512 CFA francs)
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
A prolonged dry spell In Ivory Coast has stretched into the small rainy season, but its impact on mid-crop cocoa pod setting and main crop growth may not be clearer until later this year, crop and weather analysts said on Wednesday.
"The weather is very, very strange. We have a mixture of harmattan (hot, dry) conditions in some places but light rains nearby," said one crop analyst. "Pod setting and progression could be affected. It just depends on rains before December as the front passes," he added.
Weather analysts said the front that usually heads southwards in September, giving Ivory coast a light rainy season between September and December, had finally moved south over the weekend. But rains were still far below average.
"It is now over Dimbokro (seventh northern parallel) but rains are well over a month late. So far we have not had a small rainy season," said one weather analyst.
Weather data showed less than 50 percent of average October rains fell in Ivory Coast. Data for early November were not available to build a clear picture of the overall rainfall pattern in early November, said analysts.
"Flowering and soil moisture vary greatly between regions but cherelle (early pod) setting should be clearer later in November," said a crop analyst who recently toured Ivorian farms.
Up-country buyers around Daloa told Reuters intermittent rains had started in the centre-west cocoa region but more rain was needed for late main and early mid-crop development.
Ivory Coast opened its 1996/97 cocoa marketing season late on October 24 after rain deluges in July and August. Bean moisture was no longer a problem, they said.
"Now there is a nice mixture of rain and sun but we need more rain up to the end of the year to avoid small mid-crop bean sizes," said one buyer. Beans sizes of over 110 per 100 grammes are not considered to be of export quality.
Crop analysts said soil moisture levels were low in some areas and could affect pod sizes if sunny weather continued. One crop analyst told Reuters he had only seen rain on two out of his 10 days of treking around the whole cocoa belt.
Official weather data showed average or above rains in Man and Gagnoa, but rain deficits elsewhere, particularly south of Gagnoa, around Sassandra, Abidjan and Adiake.
Sunny conditions had prevailed in the south as monsoon air was at higher altitudes south of Gagnoa than usual, said the weather analyst.
"The sun is burning off low clouds," he said.
Elsewhere, one crop analyst said the danger in Ghana of blackpod, a fungus hitting cocoa pods in prolonged cool and damp spells, had gone after regional attacks in September. Rains there had been heavier than in Ivory Coast.
--Abidjan Newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's diamonds could face a rocky future with tax officials seeking a bigger cut from rough gem exports, but industry sources said on Wednesday they hoped a deal with South Africa's De Beers would proceed.
In the latest shock to hit the Russian diamond sector and relations with De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd, the prosecutor general's office on Tuesday accused Almazy Rossii-Sakha (ARS), Russia's largest diamond producer, of financial irregularities.
"Maybe it will affect the (De Beers) agreement and maybe it won't -- my personal opinion is that it won't and an agreement will soon be signed," said Pavel Kovylin, first deputy director of ARS's Central Selling Organisation, which handles exports.
The export body has the same name as De Beers's own London-based Central Selling Organisation.
Diamonds could provide a windfall for the Russian tax authorities. ARS is the world's second largest diamond producer and its sales of uncut gems rose six percent in 1995 to $1.38 billion.
ARS, which mines nearly all of Russia's diamonds and is its sole official exporter, reached a preliminary agreement with De Beers' to export rough gems under a memorandum in February.
But the text of the agreement, undergoing review in various ministries, is awaiting government approval.
"The final agreement must correspond to the memorandum, since it was signed by the government and we are obliged to fulfil it," Kovylin said.
The prosecutor general's press service, which told Russian news agencies on Tuesday of the investigation, said it was investigating ARS' finances but stressed no formal criminal charges had been filed.
"At this point, there are no indictments," said press spokesman Natalya Vishnikova, declining to comment on whether formal charges would be pressed. "We are investigating and the matter has been passed to the Federal Tax Inspectorate."
The investigations revolve around alleged unpaid taxes and breaches of hard currency regulations for which fines could total $379 million, according to Russian news agencies. The probe has generated further uncertainty over the relationship between Russia and De Beers.
"There's a whole lot of political infighting going on between Moscow and Yakutia," said analyst Roger Chaplin at T Hoare &amp; Co in London, referring to the main diamond-producing region in Siberia where ARS is based.
"It could possibly affect the agreement with De Beers -- but then again, it could be somebody in Moscow trying to throw a spanner into the works."
The diamond world, recovering from the decision of Australian producer Argyle to say goodbye to De Beers, is impatiently waiting for Russia to finalise its relationship with the South African cartel.
Russia has been accused in the past of leaking hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of diamonds on to world markets outside its previous deal with De Beers. The new deal, once approved by Moscow officials, could give De Beers greater control of Russian output.
But it may not give greater comfort to Russia's increasingly ambitious mineral-rich regions -- especially to Yakutia, which wants a greater cut from exports of rough gems.
Russia-De Beers relations were first hit by uncertainty when Russia's Komdragmet, the precious metals and gems agency which participated in talks, was shut down by presidential decree in August.
Under the February memorandum, which replaced an expired five-year deal, De Beers would take about 85 percent of Russian rough diamonds. That is less than 95 percent under the previous deal, leaving Russia more for its own nascent cutting and polishing industry.
Storage Technology Corp on Tuesday said it had signed a deal with the Swedish patent office for the sale of a disc-based storage system and was in talks with the Chinese patent office about a similar deal.
The two events follow an earlier system sale to the European Patent Office, based in The Hague.
"It's too early to talk about the details of the Chinese deal, we are still in discussions. It can still take some time before we have a contract," Campbell McGarvie, vice-president Europe, Africa and Midle East, said in an interview.
He gave no financial details of the Swedish deal.
StorageTek, based in Louisville, Colorado, specialises in the storage and retrieval of digital information and increasingly is moving away from digital documents to bit-map images. Bit-map images are digital pictures. Bit-map images open up the possibility of storing medical scans or video images. Potential users of StorageTek's new products are members of the medical profession or broadcasters.
StorageTek has disc-based products as well as tape-based products. In tape, it makes products for such companies as Siemens and Cie des Machines Bull.
On August 19, the company signed a deal with AT&amp;T Corp's NCR unit under which NCR will market its Timberwolf tape system, a system for storing information.
But the NCR deal is less far reaching than a June 10 deal with International Business Machines Corp under which StorageTek will make IBM branded products.
The U.S. Justice Department is investigating the deal and in particular is looking at the possibility of anticompetitive practices in the direct-access storage devices industry. Pending completion of the probe, the deal cannot be finalised. Earlier this month, both StorageTek and IBM have said the inquiry was routine and expected.
Financial analysts say that, should the deal go through, it could add hundreds of millions of dollars to StorageTek's revenues.
"That was a major deal, it was big change for IBM. Never before had IBM allowed another company to build such major components as storage facilities," McGarvie said.
According to the IDC research buro, StorageTek had an 11 percent share of the disc-based storage market in the first quarter of 1996 while IBM had a 30 percent stake.
Should the deal go through, the two companies would hold just under half of the market, estimated for 1997 at 3,500 terrabytes (one thousand mega bytes), valued at $3.5 billion. The combined market share could grow to more than 50 percent in the next few years.
EMC Corp is currently market leader with 43 percent, and Japan's Hitachi Ltd Hitachi Data has a share of over 11 percent.
"The deal is mutually exclusive. IBM will also fund our research and while we begin with the Iceberg product it will also involve new products," McGarvie said. The Iceberg, a StorageTek product, is a storage system for discs.
StorageTek's Toulouse facility in France, opened in June 1995, will make IBM-branded products and the deal is expected to speed up the unit's expansion.
At Toulouse, some 100 people work on manufacturing and research and development. Storagetek is committed to increase this to 470 people within four years and McGarvie said that this would now easily be met, probably sooner than in four years.
In the medical imaging and video market, StorageTek sees a lot of opportunities but for the moment it has not yet signed big deals. "We are in discussions for some deals which could be concluded next year," French marketing manager Eric Debray said.
On a horizon of five to 10 years, McGarvie believes the company could reap benefits from the Internet and Intranet online network services, coupling its storage facilities to online retrieval systems.
StorageTek acquired the company Network Systems about a year ago. This company offers network solutions as well as security products such as Borderguard, which is a "firewall" products.
A firewall shields sensitive internal computer information from the public internet and aims to prevent hackers from breaking into commercially vital information data bases.
"It's one of the main worries at the moment. Many companies want to go on the net but they fear that they will open up their internal systems to possible intrusion," McGarvie said.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452
China released dissident Chen Ziming on Wednesday to allow the ailing activist jailed for his role in ill-fated 1989 pro-democracy protests to seek medical treatment, a family member said.
The release of the leading dissident on medical parole came just seven days after a Beijing court jailed former student leader Wang Dan for 11 years following a brief trial that prompted expressions of concern from around the world.
Chen, 42, arrived home from the Beijing Number Two Prison at around 10.30 pm (1430 GMT), his mother Wu Yongfen said.
"His wife went to meet him... He's at his own home," Wu said in a telephone interview.
"Because he is ill, he asked to be released on bail for medical treatment," she said, adding it was unclear how long Chen would be permitted to remain at liberty.
The veteran pro-democracy activist was sentenced to 13 years in prison in 1991 for engaging in "counter-revolutionary", or subversive, activities during pro-democracy protests centred on Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989.
Chen had been singled out by Beijing authorities as a behind-the-scenes "black hand" organiser of the demonstrations, which were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
He won medical parole in 1994 in a move widely seen as part of a successful bid by Beijing to persuade Washington not to revoke China's Most Favoured Nation trade status on grounds of persistent human rights violations.
Human rights have long been a major irritant in Sino-U.S. ties already strained by disputes over trade, copyright piracy, arms proliferation and Taiwan.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher is scheduled to travel to Beijing this month for a visit widely seen as a vital step toward rebuilding the cross-Pacific relationship.
It was unclear whether Chen, who has been treated for cancer, hepatitis B, heart disease and other ailments, would be imprisoned again after treatment, his mother said.
"Last time, in 1994, he was also released on bail for medical treatment and later they made him go back," she said.
Chen was returned to prison on June 25, 1995, after joining calls for Beijing to release political prisoners and reverse its verdict that the Tiananmen Square protests were seditious.
"Recently he has been suffering from a lot of illnesses," said Wu, who last year joined other family members in a bold campaign to demand medical parole for her son.
Chen, who ran a social sciences institute with fellow activist Wang Juntao until the 1989 protests, had been receiving medical treatment twice a month while in prison, she said.
His release by Chinese authorities came amid condemnation from human rights groups over the jailing of Wang Dan after a hearing last Wednesday that lasted less than four hours.
The United States and other nations expressed deep concern over the verdict and sentence. Chinese state media hailed Wang's trial as a model of fairness, but rights activists called it a parody of justice held only to mask a pre-arranged result.
Wang, a dissident also known for his role as a leader of the 1989 pro-democracy protests, had pleaded not guilty to subversion charges carrying a maximum death sentence and a minimum 10 years' imprisonment.
The 11-year sentence imposed on him was the latest in a series of crushing blows to China's embattled band of dissidents, most of whom were already either in exile or serving long terms in administrative detention or prison.
China, in a bid to boost the its aerospace industry, this week put on what has been touted as the biggest and costliest airshow it has ever held.
"It has been a dream for years for China's aerospace community to host a grand international airshow," Liang Guangda, vice-chairman of the organising committee of Airshow China '96 said on Wednesday.
"(It) will demonstrate the great success of China's reform and opening-up and improve understanding between China and aeronautical communities around the world," Liang said.
The six-day airshow at Zhuhai airport in southern Guangdong province, which started on Tuesday, is estimated to have cost China 350 million yuan ($42 million), organisers said.
The show brought together 300 domestic and foreign aircraft and parts producers, including heavyweights like Boeing, Airbus and McDonnell Douglas.
Held over a 53,000 square metre site overlooking the South China Sea, China put on show its premier jet fighter the China F-8II, and the Russian SU-27 fighter jet, of which China is known to have sizeable numbers.
And standing prominently in the large open grounds was China's space rocket, the Long March Number 2.
The event has been a venue for local and foreign aviation companies to sign joint venture agreements.
Collins Avionics &amp; Communications Division, a unit of Rockwell International Corp said on Wednesday that it signed a deal with two Chinese parties Shanghai Avionics Corp and Shanghai Broadcast Equipment Factory to develop a tracking system, normally used in aircraft, for ships and cars.
They would form a new joint venture company Shanghai Rockwell Collins Navigation and Communications Equipment Co Ltd in Pudong, Shanghai, to develop the product.
The device, called a global positioning system (GPS), can be used to track location, read tide changes and fuel consumption.
China, eager to make the airshow a biennial event, has left little to chance. Work started in May this year, beginning with building of two large exhibition halls and thousands have been recruited to put together the show, organisers said. (US$1 = 8.33 yuan)
The architect of Hong Kong's currency link to the U.S. dollar on Wednesday defended the peg's continued existence well beyond the British colony's return to Chinese sovereignty next year.
John Greenwood, the author of the 1983 paper upon which the peg was based, said China must uphold the currency link to comply with the Basic Law, Hong Kong's future constitution.
"If (China is) going to respect and honour the letter and spirit of the Basic Law then it is going to be quite difficult to move from this currency system to anything else, and I think that has tremendous value in terms of stability for the future of Hong Kong," said Greenwood, who is now chairman and chief economist at LGT Asset Management.
Greenwood said articles outlined in the Basic Law require China to preserve key features of the existing system, such as maintenance of 100 percent reserves for the Hong Kong dollar float, full convertibility and the existence of private banknote issuers with reserves held by the government.
"In my view, unless the (Chinese) government intends to undermine completely the Basic Law, it will find it very difficult to depart from the linked rate system for the Hong Kong dollar as it operates today," Greenwood said.
Although the Basic Law is silent on the mechanism or rate at which the currency should be pegged, most proposals for change are impractical and very risky, he said.
Any change in the rate of HK$7.80 to the U.S. dollar or a switch to another currency or basket of currencies would reduce prized stability created by the existing system, while non-convertibility of China's renminbi would make any integration of the two currencies virtually impossible, he said.
"I would argue that in order to become a reserve currency, the renminbi would be required to be fully convertible with no trade and capital controls," he said.
China hopes to attain convertibility of its current account by the end of the century, but broad and deep capital markets will be required before full convertibility of its capital account would become possible, he added.
Greenwood also said the peg's ability to withstand upheavals, such as China's Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989 and global stock market instability in 1987, suggest a speculative attack before the transition at midnight on June 30 next year was extremely unlikely.
"If for some reason there was political shock, then we might see some kind of speculation. But in the absence of that, I would not expect large-scale speculation," he said.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
International trading companies are rebelling against a contractual stipulation by Chinese traders demanding the right to reinspect and reject some cargoes arriving in China, traders said on Wednesday.
"No way, there is absolutely no reason for any trading company to accept these terms," a Singapore grain trader said.
Chinese companies named by trading sources were unavailable to comment on reports the new contracts gave them the right to re-inspect soybean and soybean meal cargoes on their own terms.
Those terms allowed the Chinese buyer to inspect the cargo once it arrived at a Chinese port, even though it had already passed inspection before leaving for China, another trader said.
Ostensibly, the terms were to protect the buyer in case a quarantinable bug or disease was found in the cargo -- such as TCK smut, which affects wheat and is barred from China.
But traders were concerned the new terms could exposure them to further risk if some buyers used them as an excuse to renege on deals as prices dropped.
Traders polled by Reuters said their companies were refusing to accept the new contracts.
"They are taking positions themselves," a veteran trader said of the Chinese trading houses involved. "And you are always increasing your risk in dealing with speculative buyers."
China has bought between 1.5 million and two million tonnes of soybeans and soybean meal in the past three months, traders said. Much of it is being loaded or is on the way and due to arrive in China before year-end.
Prices have fallen dramatically, especially since China's October 1 National Day holiday, after which most orders came. Since then, Asian traders have been on tenterhooks awaiting letters of credit from the Chinese buyers guaranteeing payment.
Earlier, soybean cargoes were purchased above US$300 a tonne. Chicago Board of Trade November soybean futures closed on Tuesday at $6.70 a bushel, or $263 a tonne.
Some Chinese traders have earned themselves a reputation in recent years for reneging on deals if the price of the commodity they are buying drops between the order and the delivery.
Few Asian traders have reported washed-out deals since the price decline began.
But some said the re-inspection terms, which began appearing on contracts in the past two or three weeks, could be attempts by the Chinese buyers to squeeze discounts out of the sellers.
International trading companies have previously been stung when Beijing's food trading arm, China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import/Export Corp (COFCO) altered contractual terms.
In May, COFCO informed the trading companies that they would have to bear responsiblity for the rejected cargo and all costs if TCK smut was found on wheat shipments arriving in China,
Traders in Asia said they refused to do business with China on those terms and the matter was dropped.
"After the TCK debacle, we're not willing to take any risks. It's not the way international trade is done," one source said.
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843 6470
China congratulated U.S. President Bill Clinton on Wednesday for his election triumph, saying the victory presented a good opportunity to improve ties between Washington and Beijing.
Clinton's sweeping win over Republican rival Bob Dole is good news for a Beijing leadership which prefers to deal with familiar statesmen, Chinese academics and officials said.
"We wish to congratulate President Clinton on his re-election," Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai said.
"Now, a good opportunity has presented itself for improving and expanding Sino-U.S. relations," Cui told reporters. "Some positive progress has been made in bilateral relations, with a somewhat improved atmosphere."
China was ready to work with Washington for further progress on the basis of past Sino-U.S. joint agreements, he said.
While Clinton had presided over four years of Sino-U.S. ties often strained by disputes over trade, human rights, arms proliferation and Taiwan, his re-election could help stabilise relations, Chinese academics said.
"The result should be a good thing for Sino-U.S. ties. After four years Clinton now understands China to a certain extent and there is some stability in his China policy," said one academic at a U.S.-funded election party in Beijing.
"Another four years should allow some improvement in relations," said the specialist in international strategic studies, who declined to be identified.
"Clinton is an opponent we know well," said a government official at the reception, where invited U.S. and Chinese guests watched electoral results emerge over satellite television and real time Internet links.
"It's like basketball: if the Chicago Bulls come to play the Beijing team and the two sides have never met before, it won't be a good game," said the official who declined to be named.
"Neither side knows what the other can do," he said.
Washington and Beijing both say ties have thawed since the two sides narrowly averted a trade war over copyright piracy and exchanged diplomatic fire over Taiwan earlier this year.
Cautious optimism was the tone taken by many of the Chinese specialists and officials at the reception in a Beijing hotel, where cola, hamburgers and live election coverage were served up by U.S. businesses keen to boost cross-Pacific understanding.
"The Chinese leaders... like to deal with U.S. presidents whom they know personally," said Professor Xu Cunyao of the Ministry of Culture's Institute for Administrators' Education.
"I think the Chinese leaders will be very happy with this result," he said.
Despite the diplomatic spats of recent years, Sino-U.S. economic and trade ties had grown relatively fast during Clinton's tenure, Gu Yuanyang of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences said in a telephone interview.
"We are all satisfied with this result because it will have a certain positive effect on the recovery and development of Sino-Chinese relations," said Gu, director of the academy's Institute of World Economics and Politics.
Relations would not improve automatically, he said, adding Clinton should push for high-level contacts, ensure China's trade status, smooth Beijing's entry to the World Trade Organisation and refrain from creating difficulties on Taiwan.
Air China, China's largest carrier, plans to increase its international routes next year and will boost its fleet with the addition of five passenger planes, a senior manager said on Wednesday.
"We would be concentrating on expanding our international routes within the ninth five-year plan (1996-2000)," said Zhang Jinming, general manager of the airline's publicity centre, told Reuters at the China Airshow '96.
The carrier would be starting flights from Beijing and Shanghai to Los Angeles on June 29, 1997, and planned to start routes next year from Beijing to Fushan in South Korea and to Brazil, Zhang said.
The five-day airshow at Zhuhai airport in southern Guangdong province is touted as China's largest and costliest aviation and aerospace exhibition to date, bringing together domestic and foreign aircraft and parts producers.
Increasing demand for domestic and international travel since the start of rapid economic reforms has also boosted China's civil aviation industry. The country now has 30 passenger carriers.
Air China, established in 1955 and China's longest-running carrier, currently flies 44 international and domestic routes, Zhang said.
Flights from China to Los Angeles would either be two or three times a week, he said, adding that the launch dates for service to South Korea and Brazil have yet to be finalised.
The airline, which has a fleet of 64 Boeing passenger jets, would also be taking delivery of three Airbus A340 passenger planes and two Boeing 747s in 1997, Zhang said.
Zhang said the proliferation of Chinese carriers in recent years had given way to cut-throat competition.
"Because of competition, some companies have slashed prices. For us, we have cut by similar amounts, " he said. But he added that the company, given its long and proven track record, was more keen to conduct business based on reputation.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
China's cautious and much-delayed experiment with convertible bonds as a way of raising corporate funds is expected to move forward next year with up to 6-10 foreign currency issues, brokers and analysts said on Wednesday.
Chinese securities authorities have said on a number of occasions they want to conduct test issues of convertible bonds, which give holders an option to convert the debt into stock.
Only a small handful of cases have been tried so far with very mixed results. But analysts said they believed authorities were increasingly taking a favourable attitude towards the concept of convertible bonds.
This is reflected in the many listed Chinese firms which have said in recent months they are considering or planning to launch bonds convertible into their foreign currency B shares, listed on China stock markets, or H shares listed in Hong Kong.
"The prospects for convertible bonds next year look good," said a senior analyst with a foreign brokerage in Shanghai. "I would say there could be up to 10 issues in 1997. The process has been slower than expected, but China has a need for more funds."
"There's a lot of momentum on convertible bonds at present," said John Crossman, general manager of Jardine Fleming in Shanghai. "We've been pushing the concept with companies and officials and it's now taken on a momentum of its own."
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) is believed to have received a pile of applications for such issues but is cautious about proceeding partly because of a number of unsuccessful past attempts at issuing convertible bonds.
"China Textile Machinery's issue of convertible bonds, for instance, was a disaster," said the senior analyst. "Nobody has converted the bonds to shares, so they have to pay back the money by the end of this year."
But a stock analyst in Shenzhen said the market was ready to accept convertible bonds as a concept.
"The overall financial environment has matured to the point where it's possible to look at convertible bonds. But the companies which issue them need to be relatively good to ensure they have the ability to repay," the analyst said.
He said the prospect of convertible bonds as a means of raising capital is extremely attractive to China's listed companies because, unlike direct equity, it does not immediately dilute earnings.
The latest Chinese company to announce a convertible bond is Zhenhai Refining &amp; Chemical Co Ltd which said last month it would issue US$200 million of bonds convertible into the firm's H shares.
Other companies that have indicated an interest include truck maker Qingling Motors Co and Shenzhen-listed Jiangling Motors
But the experience of China Textile Machinery indicates that there is risk involved in issuing convertible bonds for companies as well as for investors.
"The advantage over a straight bond is that the company is placing a bet that it will be able to pay back with shares rather than cash. But there's a risk involved," said one foreign analyst.
"The authorities want to choose large, stable companies that are going to have the cash income to repay the bonds if the conversion proves difficult because of problems with the share price," he added.
China has vowed to wind up the lengthy probe of the disgraced former boss of Beijing, saying the case had seriously damaged the Communist Party in the nation's capital.
Beijing party chief Chen Xitong stepped down in April last year, only weeks after his protege and vice-mayor Wang Baosen was targeted in a probe of economic crimes and committed suicide.
"The cases of Chen and Wang absolutely will not just fade away," the Outlook magazine quoted Beijing's current party chief, Wei Jianxing, as saying.
"These cases have had a very bad effect on municipal affairs.. and have destroyed a number of comrades in the party," it quoted Wei -- the Communist Party's top graft fighter -- as saying.
The weekly magazine, published by the official Xinhua news agency, carried the remarks in its latest edition, seen in Beijing on Wednesday.
The 66-year-old Chen has been out of the public eye since his fall from grace, becoming the most prominent victim of a campaign against corruption.
He was deprived of his seat on the party's powerful Politburo and was officially said to be under investigation for "serious mistakes".
Unpublished party documents say that Chen, who ran Beijing for 12 years, first as mayor and then as party chief, had abused his office by amassing $24 million in unauthorised funds and lavishing favours on friends, associates and a long-time mistress.
Vice-mayor Wang was found to have used his position to obtain 116 houses illegally and built himself a villa on the outskirts of the city. He also masterminded a $37 million embezzlement and graft scam, officials have said.
The inability of investigators to announce a conclusion to their investigation had triggered much speculation, particularly in the case of Chen who was said to be refusing to cooperate and was threatening to implicate others.
It also contrasted sharply with the speedy trial and sentencing last week of dissident Wang Dan, who was jailed for 11 years on subversion charges after less than four hours in a Beijing courtroom.
The magazine also said that 22 people had been linked to the probe of the late vice-mayor, including Zhou Beifang, the former chairman of Hong Kong listed affiliates of a major Chinese steel company, and Chen Xitong's secretary, Chen Jian.
Earlier this month, prosecutors filed corruption charges against 30 people, including Zhou, who was detained in February last year.
The magazine also said that a former senior member of the Beijing city assembly, Tie Ying, had been arrested and expelled from the party earlier this year for accepting a large bribe from a Hong Kong businessman. It did not give further details.
The city government had been virtually paralysed since the disgrace of Chen and Wang, Chinese sources have said.
The campaign to clean up the Beijing administration was widely believed to have been a factor in the departure last week of Li Qiyan as mayor.
Corruption was virtually eliminated in the years after the communists came to power in 1949, but has staged a comeback along with economic reforms in the past 17 years.
Communist Party chief and state president Jiang Zemin has declared war on corruption, warning that the scourge was a virus that threatened the party.
Courts frequently impose the death penalty in major corruption cases.
European aircraft maker Airbus looks set to soar higher in 1996 following a bumper order from airline USAir on Wednesday, but tough decisions still need to be made on its products and ownership to secure the long-term future.
Airbus Industrie announced on Wednesday one of the biggest orders in aviation history with the Pittsburgh-based airline's command for 120 planes in the A320 narrow-body family of passenger jets and options for a further 280. List price for the orders was estimated at $5.3 billion.
The USAir victory follows Monday's order by Emirates, a Gulf-based airline, for 16 Airbus A330-200s worth $2 billion, which beat out a rival offer of Boeing Co's 767.
"The order backlog is really healthy," Emmanuel Dubois Pelerin, analyst at ratings agency S&amp;P Adef said. The order book would sustain or even increase production rates for 1997 and 1998, he added.
An Airbus spokesman confidently forecast the consortium would rack up firm orders this year exceeding 300 planes, compared to 106 last year.
While there are no worries on products and profitability for the next two or three years there are uncertainties further ahead stemming from Airbus' change in legal status and implications for projects, particularly the A3XX large plane and stretched A340 long-range jet.
Airbus is a partnership made up of French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
In the interests of increasing market responsiveness and competitiveness, Airbus wants to change into a joint stock company by 1999. Discussions are being held among the partners to decide the shape of the future company.
It also has to find external financing for the 3XX plane.
Airbus has said it wants to find between 30-40 percent of external risk sharing for the 3XX, which it estimates will cost $8 billion to develop.
Dubois Pelerin said he believed Airbus would have to choose to build either the stretched A340-600 or the 3XX, as running both at the same time would overload its finances,
But the Airbus spokesman said the consortium would be able to finance development of both the 340-600 and the 3XX, with the stretched 340 a top priority in the near term.
Airbus is under severe time pressure to come up with a rival to Boeing's monopoly at the large-capacity segment with its 777 and 747 combination which hit Airbus hard in 1995.
Boeing is studying the 747-500X and 747-600X derivatives of its Jumbo jet, which has been a cashcow since it entered service in the 1970s, but which nearly broke the company in development.
The new jumbos are expected to cost around $200 million a piece, which industry sources said prompted Airbus' senior vice-president commercial John Leahy to announce earlier this week that the 3XX would cost $198 million.
The Airbus supervisory board last month asked for the business case for the 340-600 to be presented in mid-December to allow an early decision on whether to launch the product. If it were launched, the 376-seater could be in service in late 2000 and head off competition from the early versions of the 747.
If the 555-seater 3XX goes ahead, it would fly in 2003 and tackle the 747 derivatives.
A signature earlier this week with Rolls-Royce Plc on using its Trent engine for the 3XX will allow Airbus to supply important performance data such as fuel burn, range and take-off and landing weight to the airlines it is talking to for its marketing studies.
General Motors Corp. Tuesday  reached a tentative deal to end a week-long strike at its truck plant in Janesville, Wis., the last of a recent wave of local walkouts against the automaker.
About 4,809 members of United Auto Workers Local 95 were scheduled to vote on the tentative local labor agreement at a 1 p.m. EST Wednesday meeting.
Production of Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon full-size sport-utility vehicles at the Janesvillle plant could resume shortly thereafter if the deal is ratified, said GM spokesman Thomas Beaman. The trucks are among GM's most popular and profitable vehicles.
The resumption would mean that by Thursday, all of GM's North American car and truck operations would be operating normally for the first time since Oct. 3, when about 26,000 members of the Canadian Auto Workers went on strike.
GM was still reeling from the Canadian strike when workers at Janesville and GM's Indianapolis metal stamping plant walked off the job last week. By last weekend, the auto giant had nearly 40,000 U.S. workers idled by the two local UAW strikes and lingering Canadian parts shortages.
However, the UAW has threatened GM with additional local walkouts if the automaker drags its feet in plant-specific negotiations with the rest of its 123 locals.
Neither GM nor officials for Local 95 would discuss details of the agreement. The union's members walked off the job Oct. 29 over plant-specific issues, including demands for more workers to ease the burdens of heavy overtime and an increasing production rate.
"We're confident we've got a fair and equitable agreement for our membership," said Buford Beleau, a spokesman for Local 95 in Janesville. "We just want to get back to work building trucks and provide for our families, like everybody else."
To settle the Indianapolis strike, GM agreed to hire 200 more workers, pay thousands of dollars in back pay to workers and drop plans to change job classifications for skilled trades workers.
GM truck plants in Shreveport, La., and Linden, N.J., which were shut down by a lack of fenders, doors, and other steel body panels from Indianapolis, will be back to their normal work schedules by Thursday.
But the automaker's Wentzville, Mo., plants which halted one of two production shifts because of the Canadian strike, will keep 1,100 workers on temporary layoff for nearly two more weeks. The extended layoff is aimed at reducing dealer inventories of GM's all-new, full-size vans, Beaman said.
Despite an all-new design for 1997 and a complete renovation of the Wentzville factory, he said the new Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana were falling victim to lower demand for all full-size vans.
Also on Wednesday, about 250 UAW local leaders from plants around the country will meet in Chicago to review details of the union's tentative, three year national contract with GM. They must approve the pact to send it to GM's 215,000 U.S. hourly workers for ratification.
The contract is expected to give GM flexibility to exit some unprofitable parts businesses and reduce its workforce through attrition and early retirements, while nominally guaranteeing that the automaker will maintain hourly employment at 95 percent of its current level.
The 95 percent job guarantee was a cornerstone of the UAW's contracts with Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp., which also offered workers a $2,000 bonus in the first year of the pact, follwed by 3 percent raises in the second and third years.
Cisco Systems Inc. said Tuesday its fiscal first quarter profit from operations rose 77 percent, reflecting strong sales of its computer networking equipment.
The company, which makes devices that control the flow of information between computers in a network, said earnings before gains and charges rose to $320.8 million, or 47 cents a share, for the three months ended Oct. 26, from $181.4 million or 28 cents in the same quarter a year ago.
Net income for the quarter, after taking into account a $174.6 million charge for the acquisition of Telebit Corp. and a $55.1 million gain from the sale of a minority investment, totaled $180.9 million, or 26 cents a share, slightly lower than the year-ago figure.
Revenues jumped 80 percent to $1.43 billion from $798.3 million.
Wall Street had expected Cisco, the world's biggest computer networking company and a bellwhether technology stock, to report a profit from operations of 46 cents, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
Analysts said the company had a solid quarter, alleviating concerns in recent weeks about slowing sales of networking equipment.
"They surprised us on the revenue," said Eric Blachno, analyst at Bear Stearns in New York. "It was a little higher than we thought."
Cisco also managed to keep its gross margins -- a measure of how much profit a company makes from each dollar of sales -- at 65 percent, better than analysts had expected.
Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., attributed the higher profits to strong sales across all its product lines.
"More of our customers are beginning to look at a single vendor" for all of their networking needs, said John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive.
The company reported its results after the market closed. For the day, the stock had gained $1.125 to close at $61.75. After the earnings release, the shares slipped 25 cents to $61.50 in after-hour trading.
Analysts said some investors may have been disappointed that Cisco's earnings per share were not higher. Frequently, Cisco reports per-share results that are at least 3 or 4 cents above forecasts.
Canadian media baron Conrad Black said on Wednesday he wanted to increase his stake in Australia's oldest newspaper group, John Fairfax Holdings Ltd, to 50 percent from 25, a day after meeting the prime minister.
However, Black repeated that he would sell out of Fairfax if there was no easing in Australia's current media ownership rules, which he described as "anachronistic".
Black said that although he could not rule out selling his stake to Kerry Packer, the suggested merger plan by Packer between his media empire and Fairfax was unlikely to suceed.  
Black told shareholders at Fairfax's annual meeting that he had said to John Howard in their first meeting since Howard became prime minister that he would like to raise his stake, which is held through Hollinger International Inc.
Black was asked by reporters after Fairfax's meeting just how much he would want to increase his stake to, if allowed. "Fifty percent," he said.
The media baron added that U.S. accounting rules effectively punished companies which had higher than 50 percent stakes in their associates. However, Black repeated that he would sell his Fairfax stake if he was not allowed to raise it further.  
"If the road is truly blocked, then obviously we are going," Black said. He added that Hollinger would not lodge any application for a higher stake until the government ended its study into media ownership and presented new ownership rules.
Under Australia's current media ownership rules, foreigners are prevented from owning more than 25 percent of a newspaper group or 15 percent of a television group. They also prevent a newspaper group owner from owning more than 15 percent of a television station in the same city and vice-versa. "These thing as they are now are very anachronistic," Black told reporters.  
In August, Packer's main media group, Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd (PBL) proposed a merger between PBL and Fairfax only if media ownership rules were liberalised. PBL owns top-rating Nine Network and 15 percent of Fairfax.
Black said PBL's merger proposal was unlikely to succeed while he (Black) was a shareholder. "He (Packer) would have quite a time getting that one through," Black said.
"I don't ever rule out anything, but I think that's fairly improbable. If Mr Packer wants to control Fairfax he's going to have to it the old-fashioned way and pay for it." Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd owns five percent of Fairfax.  
"I know he's averse to doing that," Black said. He added he was not particularly interested in any stock swap deal with Packer which would leave him with a PBL stake.
Black said John Fairfax's profits were starting to improve.
Fairfax reported a 41 percent fall in net profit to A$87.4 million in the year to June 30, 1996.
"It's starting to look a little better now. Profits are affected by increased newsprint, they are affected by increased depreciation because of the plant at Chullora, cash flow rates are starting to improve a little bit," Black said. Fairfax spent A$330 million on a new printing plant at Chullora in Sydney.  
Fairfax chairman Sir Laurence Street told shareholders the slower Australian economy coupled with higher newsprint prices would impact on the group's final results for the 1996/97 year.
"Coupled with the state of the economy, Fairfax, in common with the whole newspaper industry, has had to face high newsprint prices and this, too, will impact upon our final results in the current year," Street said.
At 3.45 p.m. (0435 GMT) Fairfax shares were two cents higher at A$2.69, giving it a market capitalisation of A$2.04 billion.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
South Korea's Daewoo Electronics staged a charm campaign on Wednesday with newspaper advertisements after fierce criticism about its plans to buy France's state-owned loss-making Thomson Multimedia.
Under a banner "Do you know the dwarf Daewoo?", the 34th biggest world company" the group tried to counter growing resentment in France that a "tiny" South Korean company was set to buy a "leading" French group for one symbolic franc.
France's Privatisation Commission will state in early December whether it agrees with a government plan to sell defence and consumer electronics Thomson SA to Lagardere Groupe for one franc after an 11 billion franc ($2.1 billion) capital injection.
Lagardere will sell Thomson Multimedia, a maker of televisions and video recorders and a leader in digital video technology, to Daewoo.
Prime Minister Alain Juppe, giving in a little to opposition from the Socialist Party and some members of his majority, last week said there would be a parliamentary debate before the final government decision on the deal. But the debate will not be followed by a parliament vote on the proposal.
In full-page advertisements in most French newspapers on Wednesday, Daewoo said that its electronics arm had about the same sales figure as Thomson Multimedia, at some 40 billion francs, although with a profit which the French company lacks.
It said that its global sales network, especially in Asia, would allow better market access for Thomson's new products such as flat screen television sets and televisions that can be connected to the Internet computer network.
The company also said that "Daewoo believes in France" and said it had made investments in the country and had close ties with a number of French companies.
"Contrary to all other competitors who have based themselves in or moved to neighbouring countries, Daewoo has chosen France. Simply because it believes in France".
Parliamentarians of the Communist Party are organising a seminar on the privatisation of Thomson on November 13. They want the promised parliament debate to be televised and joined a call by the Socialist Party for an inquiry commission to study the way the government came to its decision.
The European Commission, meanwhile, is studying the Lagardere bid as well as a rival offer by Alcatel Alsthom and could make its findings on competition issues and the state cash injection known by December 4.
Lagardere finance dirtector Philippe Camus said on Wednesday that a change in the government's decision would be a "total catastrophe in the international financial community".
Speaking to a seminar organised by brokers Ferri, Camus said he did not understand the hostility toward Daewoo.
"Daewoo has made commitments on jobs and people say to them, Out! France is going to have a big credibility problem," he said.
Camus said Lagardere had had "37 contacts in the whole world. Everybody ran away from the deal, except the Korean group Daewoo," he said. ($1=5.143 French Franc)
Airbus Industrie is for the first time in Asia marketing cargo space aboard the world's largest civil transporter, the consortium's press relations manager in China, David Velupillai, told Reuters.
Speaking at China's first airshow being held here, he said the Airbus A300-600 Super Transporter fleet has 800 hours a year available for wet lease. Known as the Beluga because of its giant, whale like appearance and cavernous 7.4 metre high jaw-like door, it is one of the world's most unusual aircraft which Airbus said can carry more voluminous freight than any other.
The first two of an eventual fleet of four aircraft are being used to transport large sections of fuselage and the wings for the Airbus family which are made near Chester, England and are flown to Toulouse for assembly. Other fuselage sections weighing up to 45 tons and 30 metres long are transported from Spain and Germany.
When the aircraft are not busy doing that, Airbus says it hope it can profit from wet leases of other outsize cargoes such as helicopters, aircraft engines and space satellites in which field China is a key world player with its Long March launcher.
"No other aircraft in the world can carry such large and unusual loads. The thing about satellites is they need to be transported whole and cannot be broken down for transport. It is a niche market but one we think there are opportunities in," Velupillai said.
Airbus said its large transporter has already been used to carry a satellite module which will form part of space station Alpha from Turin in Italy to Toulouse . Other projects include ferrying aviator Richard Branson's balloon to Morocco for his aborted round the world attempt.
The Beluga made its air show debut at Paris last year but is not being exhibited in China.
The twin engined purpose-built jets replace veteran four propellor engined Super Guppy aircraft which Airbus said are destined to become museum pieces. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Genetically-altered soybeans at the centre of an international environmental furore are causing little concern in China, a major soybean importer with its own bio-engineering programmes, industry sources said on Wednesday.
"China is a very public and vocal supporter of our technology," said a source at Monsanto Co, the developer of the first genetically-altered U.S. soybeans.
"The Chinese have been heavily involved in their own programmes to produce insect-resistant cotton and genetically-altered soybeans, corn and rice," the source in Hong Kong, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters.
Monsanto has been targeted in the United States and now in Europe by environmental groups opposed to genetic engineering.
The soybeans have been developed with a resistance to a widely-used weed killer called Roundup, also a Monsanto product.
"I would think they would be very happy in China to get their hands on some of this product if they are pest-resistant," an industry executive in China said.
"They have a lot of their own problems with insects, especially in their soy and corn crops," he said.  
The Monsanto source said Chinese research, while a good decade behind his own company's, mirrored Monsanto's efforts at developing pest and insecticide resistant crops.
"So I wouldn't expect there to be any concern in China about this product," he said.
He said Monsanto was negotiating for co-operative projects in China, but would not give further details.
Greenpeace and other environmental campaigners were preparing on Tuesday to picket the arrival in Hamburg of a ship believed to be carrying some of the Monsanto soybeans.
Greenpeace activists in Hong Kong, however, said on Wednesday that despite concerns, they had no plan to campaign against the sale of the genetically-altered beans in Asia.
"The problem is we don't know what form it is in -- in powder form, in animal feed, mixed into hamburger meat -- so we have no way of knowing if we are eating it," said Clement Chan, spokesman for Greenpeace in Hong Kong.
"The beans have not been extensively tested before being made available to the public so we don't know what we are doing to human or animal bodies," he said.
Other than providing information on request, Greenpeace had no plan of action against the beans in Asia, Chan said.  
The beans have been approved for use in Japan, the biggest buyer of U.S. soybean products, the Monsanto source said.
User-groups in other countries, such as the Food and Drink Industry Association of the Netherlands, have also said they will use the genetically-altered U.S. soybeans.
Grain traders and industry executives in Asia said they had received no expression of concern from potential buyers in the region about the altered soybeans and did not expect to.
"They represent a very small proportion of the U.S. crop at this stage," a grain trader in Singapore said, adding the beans could account for 10 percent of the total U.S. crop in 1997.
The U.S. soybean crop, now more than 70 percent harvested, is expected to be more than 64 million tonnes, according to the American Soybean Association. Of that, 24.8 million tonnes will go to export markets.
While not among the biggest customers for U.S. soybean products, China is expected to buy around one million tonnes of beans in calendar 1996, and up to two million tonnes of meal.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
South Korea's Daewoo Electronics staged a charm campaign on Wednesday with newspaper advertisements after fierce criticism about its plans to buy state-owned loss-making Thomson Multimedia.
Under a banner "Do you know the dwarf Daewoo?, the 34th biggest world company" the group tried to counter a growing resentment in France that a "tiny" South Korean company was set to buy a "leading" French group for one symbolic franc.
France's Privatisation Commission will state in early December whether its agrees with a government plan to sell defence and consumer electronics Thomson SA to Lagardere Groupe for one franc after an 11 billion franc capital injection.
Lagardere will sell Thomson Multimedia, a maker of televisions and video recorders and a leader in digital video technology, to Daewoo.
Prime Minister Alain Juppe, giving in a little to opposition from the Socialist Party and some members of his majority, last week said there would be a parliamentary debate before the final government decision on the deal. But the debate will not be followed by a parliament vote on the proposal.
In full-page advertisements in most French newspapers on Wednesday, Daewoo said that its electronics arm had about the same sales figure as Thomson Multimedia, at some 40 billion francs, although with a big profit which the French company lacks.
It said that its global sales network, especially in Asia, would allow better market access for Thomson's new products such as flat screen television sets and televisions that can be connected to the Internet computer network.
The company also said that "Daewoo believes in France" and said it had made investments in the country and had close ties with a number of French companies.
"Contrary to all other competitors who have based themselves or moved to neighbouring countries, Daewoo has chosen France. Simply because it believes in France".
Parliamentarians of the Communist Party are organising a seminar on the privatisation of Thomson on November 13. They want the promised parliament to be televised and join a call by the Socialist Party for an inquiry commission to study the way the government came to its decision.
The European Commission, meanwhile, is studying the Lagardere bid as well as a rival offer by Alcatel Alsthom and could make its findings on competition issues and the state cash injection known by December 4.
Dutch Philips Electronics has sounded out Commission officials about the posibility of lodging a complaint agaisnt the capital injection for its rival Thomson Multimedia but a spokesman in Eindhoven said the company was at the moment not planning such a complaint.
French media keep speculating that some minisiters, mainly Industry Minister Franck Borotra, are hoping for the Privatisation Commission to declare the bid void because of the size of the capital injection.
Le Nouvel Economiste, a two-weekly paper, said that Philips, Samsung and Toshiba had all turned down offers from Lagardere to acquire Thomson Multimedia.
In the case of Philips this was because of competition concerns, the paper said.
Genetically-altered soybeans at the centre of an international environmental furore are causing little concern in China, a major soybean importer with its own bio-engineering programmes, industry sources said on Wednesday.
"China is a very public and vocal supporter of our technology," said a source at Monsanto Co, the developer of the first genetically-altered U.S. soybeans.
"The Chinese have been heavily involved in their own programmes to produce insect-resistant cotton and genetically-altered soybeans, corn and rice," the source in Hong Kong, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters.
Monsanto has been targeted in the United States and now in Europe by environmental groups opposed to genetic engineering.
The soybeans have been developed with a resistance to a widely-used weed killer called Roundup, also a Monsanto product.
"I would think they would be very happy in China to get their hands on some of this product if they are pest-resistant," an industry executive in China said.
"They have a lot of their own problems with insects, especially in their soy and corn crops," he said.
The Monsanto source said Chinese research, while a good decade behind his own company's, mirrored Monsanto's efforts at developing pest and insecticide resistant crops.
"So I wouldn't expect there to be any concern in China about this product," he said.
He said Monsanto was negotiating for co-operative projects in China, but would not give further details.
Greenpeace and other environmental campaigners were preparing on Tuesday to picket the arrival in Hamburg of a ship believed to be carrying some of the Monsanto soybeans.
Greenpeace activists in Hong Kong, however, said on Wednesday that despite concerns, they had no plan to campaign against the sale of the genetically-altered beans in Asia.
"The problem is we don't know what form it is in -- in powder form, in animal feed, mixed into hamburger meat -- so we have no way of knowing if we are eating it," said Clement Chan, spokesman for Greenpeace in Hong Kong.
"The beans have not been extensively tested before being made available to the public so we don't know what we are doing to human or animal bodies," he said.
Other than providing information on request, Greenpeace had no plan of action against the beans in Asia, Chan said.
The beans have been approved for use in Japan, the biggest buyer of U.S. soybean products, the Monsanto source said.
User-groups in other countries, such as the Food and Drink Industry Association of the Netherlands, have also said they will use the genetically-altered U.S. soybeans.
Grain traders and industry executives in Asia said they had received no expression of concern from potential buyers in the region about the altered soybeans and did not expect to.
"They represent a very small proportion of the U.S. crop at this stage," a grain trader in Singapore said, adding the beans could account for 10 percent of the total U.S. crop in 1997.
The U.S. soybean crop, now more than 70 percent harvested, is expected to be more than 64 million tonnes, according to the American Soybean Association. Of that, 24.8 million tonnes will go to export markets.
While not among the biggest customers for U.S. soybean products, China is expected to buy around one million tonnes of beans in calendar 1996, and up to two million tonnes of meal.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Regulators proposed Thursday to set aside $2.3 billion a year to link schools and libraries to the Internet at discounted rates, but declined to endorse President Clinton's call to hook them up free of charge.
Eligible institutions could buy access to the computer network at discounts of 20 percent to 90 percent, under the plan offered by an eight-member board of state regulators and members of the Federal Communications Commission.
"Schools will be able to connect every single classroom to the Information Highway," said FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, who oversaw the panel.
"The ramp will be a high-speed, high-bandwidth, cutting-edge connection. The discounts, tailored to each school's individual level of need, will make building and maintaining the ramp truly affordable for every school."
The Internet proposal is part of a broader plan to overhaul the multi-bilion dollar "universal service" program that ensures affordable phone service to rural communities and low-income neighborhoods.
Officials hope the wide-ranging proposal, which stems from the new telecommunications law, eventually will generate lower phone rates through increased competition.
But some board members fear the  plan -- to be paid for from the reveneus of phone companies, cable-TV operators and other communications carriers -- may prove too ambitious and ultimately push up rates.
"A universal service fund that taxes consumers billions of dollars a year is not only inconsistent with congressional intent, but could be extremely harmful nationwide to consumers," said Laska Schoenfelder, chairman of the South Dakota Public Utilities Commission.
Under the Internet provision, less well off institutions and those in out-of-the-way high-cost areas would be entitled to the larger discounts.
The plan stops short of the president's proposal to give schools and libraries free basic service, with the nation's communications carriers footing the bill.
In other areas, the board left many key provisions of its proposals vague, including the cost of the federal fund that would be used to subsidize carriers that offer phone service in high-cost rural areas and in low-income neighborhoods.
Overriding the objections of some regulators, the board proposed to fund the federal program through the interstate and intrastate revenues of telecommunications carriers.
Some state regulators objected to the use of intrastate revenues, saying such funds should be used only by the states to set up their own funds that would help provide distinct telecommunications services within their borders.
The board said that the current $3.50 a month subscriber line charge that residential customers now pay should not be increased. The charge is used to help fund universal service.
And it held out the prospect that the charge -- along with the "access" charges long-distance carriers pay to local phone companies to hook up to their networks -- could drop if the federal universal fund is indeed bankrolled by interstate and intrastate phone revenues.
Britain's leading discount food retailer Kwik Save Group Plc on Thursday said it was closing 107 shops as part a radical shake-up of its struggling discount chain, which unions said could mean 1,000 job losses.
The group, squeezed between mainstream food superstores and limited range discounters, also reported a 28 percent drop in annual profits to 90.3 million pounds ($148.2 million), before a provision of 87.5 million to pay for the rationalisation.
Sales rose 8.8 percent to 3.5 billion pounds ($5.76 billion) in the year and the company maintained its final dividend at 14.05p, making an unchanged total of 20p.
Chief executive Graeme Bowler said the reorganisation was designed to fend off fierce competition from superstores and continental discount groups, which have robbed Kwik Save of many of its traditional customers.
The restructuring pleased investors and Kwik Save's shares rose to peak 21 pence higher at 325 before settling a few pence bit lower.
A review of the company's operations by outside consultants, initiated in February, showed a need to improve its existing 979 stores and invest in staff and technology.
Kwik Save said it planned to spend some 50 million pounds on its New Generation programme in the next year and 100 million the year after as the new concept is rolled out into its stores.
Finance director Derek Pretty estimated the store closures would involve less than 200 job losses, as 90 percent of the staff would be redeployed in Kwik Save's remaining 900 stores.
There are plans to launch a Kwik Save own-label range to take on the superstores, improve contol over its fresh foods and tighten control of its pricing and quality. The group would have to invest heavily in technology, where it was about two to three years behind the competition.
"Research showed us that what our customers really like is discount values," Pretty said. "What they did not like was our range which was not good enough in some areas and did not match superstores."
Bowler acknowledged the group had failed to invest enough in upgrading the fabric of its existing stores in previous years. The new-style stores will be rolled out over the next three years at a cost of some 300 million pounds.
The chief executive told a news conference the company would introduce a new range of chilled foods, health and beauty products and over-the-counter medicines.
But he said the group was not trying to move away from its roots.
"We are not moving away from discounting prices," he said. "We are not trying to be a mini-version of someone else, we want to be ourselves."
Re-shaping the group was "an enormous task," he said, which would have to be undertaken in stages in order to minimise disruption.
The 107 stores would be closed progressively between now and September 1997. ($1=.6093 Pound)
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) on Thursday launched a probe into the way travel companies sell foreign package holidays to millions of sun-seeking Britons.
The director-general of the consumer watchdog body, John Bridgeman, called a Monopolies and Mergers (MMC) inquiry into ownership links between leading tour operators such as Thomson and Airtours and retail travel agents.
The MMC will also be able to look at the practice among travel agents of offering holidays at a discount conditional on the purchase of specific travel insurance.
Both travel companies said they were confident they would be cleared by the 12-month MMC inquiry. But shares in Airtours plunged almost 10 percent in London, losing 69p to 644p.
Bridgeman noted that vertically-integrated companies like Thomson and Airtours supply a large proportion of a market worth seven billion pounds ($11.5 billion) and he was concerned that some of their practices could distort competition.
"I believe they have the market power to put competitors at a disadvantage, for example by de-racking (removing) or threatening to de-rack their brochures in an attempt to negotiate larger commissions," he said.
He also said they could pressurise tour operators not to supply independent travel agents on better terms or push their own holidays through in-house incentive schemes.
Thomson owns the leading Lunn Poly travel agency, while Airtours owns the number two travel agent Going Places.
Together they operate around 40 percent of British travel agents. They also supply around 45 percent of over 10 million foreign packages sold to Britons who make the annual pilgrimage to seek the sun around the Mediterranean or further afield.
Thomson, part of Canada's Thomson Corp, welcomed the probe.
"Thomson is confident that the industry at large, and Thomson in particular, will be vindicated from any allegations of anti-competitive practice," said Paul Brett, chairman and chief executive of Thomson Travel.
"We have been cleared by the OFT before in 1994 and we are sure that we will be cleared again by the MMC," he added.
Airtours deputy chief executive Harry Coe said there was no case to answer and claimed the British market offered the world's cheapest foreign holidays.
"Those behind the inquiry are the small tour operators and the small travel agents who can't stand the heat in the kitchen," he said.
But the smaller tour operators were delighted that the MMC was taking up the matter.
"Big companies are screwing the consumer and the smaller operators," said Sue Ockwell, head of the Association of Independent Tour Operators. ($1=.6072 Pound)
Top managers in major financial firms need to be razor-sharp if the world's increasingly complex markets are to run smoothly, however sophisticated the regulatory regime, regulators and politicians said on Thursday.
"Management needs to know its business. (It) sets the ethos of the company," Alistair Darling, spokesman on treasury affairs for Britain's opposition Labour party told a conference on financial regulation and minimising systemic risk.
Examples of where rules had been broken by so-called "rogue traders" were a clear sign of management failure, he said.
Christine Cumming, senior vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, also voiced doubts about management's current ability to deal with regulatory problems.
The health of an institution lay in its management and directors, but they were not necessarily properly armed to deal with problems when they arose, she said.
"Do we prepare directors and managers enough?" Cumming said.
Britain's often criticised regulatory system, which relies heavily on so-called "self-regulation," is also under scrutiny.
Darling said that whichever party won the next general election, due by May 1997, the British regulatory system "will be reformed." But this would not mean "tearing everything up or dramatic change," he added.
He said Labour wanted to establish a regulator with sufficient "clout reputation and stature" to deal with its international counterparts.
But it would not create a "Super-SIB," an enlarged version of the top regulator the Securities and Investments Board (SIB), as some commentators have suggested. A Labour government would also attempt to limit the number of regulations.
Darling's call for minimising the regulatory burden by making it as cost-effective as possible was echoed by most of the speakers at the conference.
Angela Knight, Britain's economic secretary to the Treasury, said the government wants to see a cost-benefit analysis applied to all regulations. If they fail to make sense on this basis then they should not be adopted, she said.
Knight also underlined the dramatic effect on the industry as a whole of the collapse of blue-blooded merchant bank Barings in February 1995 was "a more salutory lesson than any regulation" to other banks and financial institutions.
There were calls from both politicians for interchange between industry and the regulators, so that the experiences on either side of the fence could be carried across by individuals.
But while the idea of the regulators being staffed by people with first-hand industry knowledge won support from many of those attending the meeting, the question of how the pay structure could accomodate such movements was seen by some as a serious obstacle to this system spreading.
And while regulators need to keep up with rapid changes in financial instruments and the industry landscape both on a domestic and a global scale, they can never be expected to be one step ahead of the business they are monitoring.
"Regulators should respond to business realities rather than be ahead of business trends," Sir Andrew Large, chairman of the SIB told the meeting.
This would mean regulators becoming increasingly sophisticated to cope with the changing business environment and having to co-operate more and more with their counterparts in other countries.
"The next generation of supervisors will have to evaluate far more complex information and make far more complex judgements," Large said.
Former Barings executive Ron Baker rejects a lawsuit filed by Dutch bank ING Barings which makes a claim for repayment of a 100,000 pounds ($165,000) loan he is alleged to have received, his lawyer told Reuters on Thursday.
ING Barings earlier confirmed a press report it is suing Baker for 113,000 pounds, representing the loan given while Baker was employed by Barings, plus interest.
It is alleged to have been paid in two 50,000 pounds tranches, the last of which was made just two weeks before the collapse of the bank in February 1995.
"He (Baker) is satisfied that he doesn't owe them (ING Barings) any money," Baker's lawyer Lindsay Hill, a partner at Fox Williams, said. "This doesn't constitute a good claim against Mr Baker."
Hill said Baker, who was head of financial products at Barings, "roundly rejects" the ING claim and says that whatever money was paid to him, it was not sufficient to cover what he was owed.
Asked if Baker was considering making a claim against ING Barings for unpaid money, Hill said his client was currently concentrating on a tribunal hearing where he is challenging charges levelled against him by Britain's Securities and Futures Authority (SFA).
In May, Baker said he was satisfied he had acted properly throughout his time at Barings. He said he was not involved in the bank's agency business through which rogue trader Nick Leeson racked up $1.4 billion losses which bankrupted the blue-blooded investment bank.
The tribunal hearing has been going on for around two weeks and is expected to conclude soon. If Baker loses, he has the opportunity to appeal. ($1=.6093 Pound)
U.S. power utility Dominion Resources Inc will have to reconsider the price it is prepared to pay for East Midlands Electricity Plc if it is realistic about acquiring it, analysts said on Thursday.
On Wednesday Dominion's interest in East Midlands was flushed out by U.K. stock exchange regulators after East Midland's share price jumped by 13 percent.
But Dominion said it would not go much above Wednesday's closing price of 608 pence, valuing East Midlands at just over 1.2 billion stg ($1.97 billion), and industry sources said it would "run away" if the market drove the price up further.
Investors seemed to take Dominion at its word on Thursday, and with no bid on the table East Midlands' share price slipped back 21 pence to 587 in midafternoon trading.
But analysts said an offer would be most unlikely to succeed at 610 pence, valuing East Midlands less highly than Northern Electric Plc, which is subject of a 659 million stg bid from U.S. energy group CE Electric.
SG Strauss Turnbull analyst Marshall Whiting said Dominion was being "very cheeky."
Dominion's declaration of interest follows hard on the heels of CalEnergy Co Inc unit CE Electric's 630 pence offer for Northern last week.
Using median forecast figures gathered by Edinburgh Financial Publishing, CE Electric's offer represents a P/E ratio of 9.3 against Northern's prospective year through March 1997 earnings and 8.6 times year through March 1998 earnings.
Veronika Hirsch, the flamboyant Canadian stock picker hired recently to spearhead Fidelity Investments' drive to dominate the Canadian market, has been removed from her fund as she is probed by Canadian regulators.
The dramatic move -- just three months after Canada's so-called "Fund Diva" joined the mutual fund giant -- is a blow to Fidelity's expansion efforts in Canada, analysts said.
Hirsch, who was unavailable to comment, is embroiled in a controversy over personal trades she made before joining Fidelity, the world's biggest mutual fund company.
Her investments earlier this year in a small Vancouver company, Oliver Gold Corp., grabbed headlines and attracted the attention of the British Columbia Securities Commission.
Late Wednesday, Fidelity ousted Hirsch from her portfolio and said her status was "under discussion." Fidelity also took the unprecedented step of offering clients their money back without penalty.
The fund has grown to C$190 million ($143 million) in assets since it was launched amid much fanfare on Sept. 23.
Fidelity's head office in Boston declined to comment and referred all calls to its Canadian subsidiary.
"We acknowledge that it is highly unusual for a fund to change portfolio managers so quickly after its launch. This fee recovery programme is a proactive and voluntary response on our part to maintain investors' goodwill," Fidelity Canada spokesman Chethan Lakshman told Reuters.
Fidelity vigorously defended Hirsch when the controversy first broke several weeks ago. But it cancelled a 27-city road show last week when regulators contacted Hirsch.
At issue is her purchase of 65,000 special warrants of Oliver Gold through a private placement while she was a fund manager with AGF Management Ltd. in Toronto.
Hirsch paid C$1.53 ($1.15) per warrant, according to filings with the British Columbia Securities Commission and reported by Stockwatch, a Canadian investment publication.
Shortly afterward, Hirsch's AGF Growth &amp; Income Fund bought 295,000 special warrants at more than double that price.
Analysts said regulators are expected to review whether the trades constitute "front running", a practice whereby a fund manager tries to profit personally by buying securities he or she intends to buy later for the fund.
Another related issue is whether Hirsch, a resident of Ontario, used an address in British Columbia to buy the Oliver Gold shares, which were only offered to B.C. residents.
Lakshman contended the controversy has not damaged Fidelity's reputation or expansion plans in Canada. But analysts saw the publicity as damaging as Fidelity gears up for the critical year-end sale of retirement savings plans.
"They look kind of foolish being the ones associated with this situation. I don't think it helps their bid to become the dominant player in Canada by any stretch of the imagination," one industry analyst said.
The Hirsch case comes as Canadians are pouring billions of dollars into mutual funds. Over the last six years, investment has jumped seven-fold to C$180 billion ($136 billion).
Fidelity wants a bigger share of the Canadian market, where it ranks ninth with C$7 billion ($5.2 billion) in assets, behind leader Investors Group, with C$22 billion ($16 million).
To quarterback its effort in Canada, Fidelity poached Hirsch, a high-profile stock picker with AGF, for a rumoured C$2 million ($1.5 million) signing bonus in August.
Her meteoric rise to celebrity status began when she joined AGF in October 1995 after a successful but low-profile stint at Prudential Insurance Co. of America.
A multi-million advertising campaign put Hirsch's face on television screens across the country. She soon rivalled celebrity stock guru Frank Mersch at Altamira Management Ltd. as the country's best-known fund manager.
When Hirsch jumped to Fidelity, her blood-red nails and leather outfits appeared an uncomfortable fit with Fidelity's ultra-conservative culture, but the hiring was considered a major coup within the industry.
At the time, Fidelity Canada President Kevin Kelly said: "Veronika is one of the country's top equity managers with an outstanding track record and reputation."
Kelly was unavailable for comment on Thursday.
Industry critics argue that the Hirsch case raises key questions about the fiduciary responsibility of fund managers to their clients. It also highlights the jumble of standards governing the personal investing of Canadian money managers.
Altamira has tough rules restricting managers from investing in open-ended mutual funds, short-term government bonds and treasury bills after a controversy involving one of its fund managers.
But some industry observers say the entire industry should adopt tougher U.S. guidelines.
Toronto stocks ended softer on Thursday, snapping a recent winning streak despite strength in the gold and real estate sectors.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index slipped by 10.69 points to reach 5739.23 points, after adding more than 1.5 percent yesterday.
"After yesterday's remarkable action, it's time for a pause," said RBC Dominion Securities analyst Dunnery Best in a report.
"The golds have ignited on the quick rise in bullion prices that came late morning," Best said.
COMEX December gold ended up US$0.90 at US$379.60 an ounce, after hitting a six-day intraday high at US$382.00. The yellow metal soared briefly after comments by a Japanese official which indicated Japan will no longer tolerate a weak yen.
This pushed the U.S. dollar lower while investors rushed to sell the currency and buy gold, but the dollar recovered after the U.S. government had a strong 30-year Treasury bond auction, said Maison Placements Canada trader Rolie Bradley.
Toronto trading was brisk at 99.8 million shares worth C$1.7 billion (US$1.28 billion). Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones 522 to 488 and 289 traded flat.
Half of Toronto's 14 sub-indices eased, led by pipeline stocks, banks and consumer products. Golds, conglomerates and real estate issues rolled higher.
"The lower interest rates are really stimulating the whole real estate situation," Bradley said.
Among hot stocks were the banks, which sank after a month's worth of gains. Royal Bank of Canada topped Toronto's most active stocks, falling C$0.90 to C$47.90 on nearly 2.7 million shares.
"Our favourite group, the banks, which got a pasting today, likely will go up tomorrow," Bradley said.
Telecommunications firm Northern Telecom Ltd. lost C$2.55 to reach C$86.95 in heavy trading. It said on Thursday that it agreed to buy the assets of a California-based software firm, AGL Systmes Inc., for an undisclosed sum.
Funeral homes operator Loewen Group Inc. slipped C$0.75 to C$51.75 in light dealings. The closely watched firm, which has made headlines for its battle against hostile bidder Service Corp. International, said it expects to make acquisitions worth US$600-US$700 million next year.
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus announced a state commission on Wednesday to attack bureaucracy in the land of Franz Kafka.
It will have a steering committee, a chairman, two vice-chairmen, two sections, six sub-commissions and more members than Klaus's cabinet.
But Klaus denied suggestions that the new "Commission for the Removal of Bureaucratic Burden" would pour fuel on to the fire, telling a news conference that the only bureaucrat working at the commission would be a secretary.
The other staff, numbering around 20, would perform their duties part time, said Klaus, whose cabinet has 16 members.
The Czech bureaucracy, crafted by the Austro-Hungarian empire and perfected under communism, inflicts daily misery on local and foreign residents alike.
Franz Kafka, the Prague novellist of the early 20th century, wrote of angst born of bureaucracy in such works as "The Trial" and "The Castle".
Things today do not seem much better. Applications for documents such as company registrations, licences and work permits can take weeks or months to process.
They can involve repeated visits to offices where citizens have to queue patiently sometimes for hours waiting to be summoned by often surly bureaucrats. Knocking on office doors for attention is strictly forbidden.
Klaus said the commission should aim to simplify issues like setting up a business, getting construction permits or social benefits, or dealing with tax offices.
Chairman Vladimir Budinsky, a former transport minister, indicated he was confident his commission would not gain the Czech bureaucrat's reputation for idleness.
"I believe that we will be able to find people for each section who would be ready to work," he said.
Too many futures exchanges in China are presently trading metals contracts, which should realistically be limited to just one or two given the current low trading volumes, officials and analysts said on Thursday.
Five of China's 14 futures exchanges have metals contracts but only two of them, the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, see substantial trading, mostly in copper, a local broker said.
The other three exchanges which have at least some trading in metals futures contracts are the Chongqing exchange in southwestern Sichuan province, the Shenyang exchange in the northeast and Tianjin.
"Five exchanges doing metals are too many, I think one or two would be enough," Gu Jianxing, manager of information department of the Shanghai Metal Exchange, said in an interview.
"There have been rumours about mergers, but we have heard nothing official," he added.
China's securities authorities, while encouraging the stock and bond markets, have been cracking down mercilessly on the futures markets in recent months due to massive over-speculation on some contracts.
The futures exchange in the northeast city of Changchun last month became the latest casualty, being forced to merge with the Beijing futures exchange.
The Shanghai Metal Exchange's Gu said the pressure from Beijing to stamp out speculative activity had had a dramatic impact on trading volumes on the exchange.
"The restrictions have had a negative impact on market sentiment with turnover dropping," Gu said. "State-owned firms have been banned from speculating and financial institutions have been pushed out of the futures markets."
Gu said he expected trading volume on the Shanghai exchange this year to be only about 300 billion yuan ($36.14 billion), compared with 455.8 billion yuan in 1995 and a record 682 billion yuan in 1994.
"In a way, the metals trading has already been focused on one or two exchanges given the low trading volumes seen in the other three exchanges," said an analyst with a Shanghai futures trading company.
Gu said there were rumours the securities authorities planned to raise margin requirements for all futures trading from the current five percent to 15 or 20 percent, depending on the contract, to crack down further on speculation.
"If it happened, it wouldn't have a big impact on the Shanghai metals contracts, which are relatively mature and less speculative," Gu said.
But he said there was no need for the authorities to take a tough line on the Shanghai Metal Exchange.
"The speculative element in copper trading in Shanghai is relatively small and the futures trading here provides a valuable opportunity for hedging," he said.
He said that, currently, hedging accounted for about 20 percent of the trading in copper futures on the exchange, which he said was about the right level.
"The current margin requirement of metal contracts should be kept or at most increase it slightly," Gu added.
($1=8.3 yuan)
A labour shortage is threatening to delay completion of Hong Kong's new airport, a senior airport official has told Reuters.
The official, Clinton Leeks, director of corporate development for the Airport Authority Hong Kong, the body set up to oversee completion and run the HK$49.8 billion airport at Chek Lap Kok, said an additional two to three thousand construction workers are needed if the opening target of April 1998 is to be met.
Trade unions in Hong Kong are expected to resist attempts to import more workers from overseas. The Confederation of Trade Unions has said contractors should give priority to local tradesmen.
"I am not sounding an alarm just stating the facts. If we don't get these two to three thousand extra workers then certain things are at risk but we hope it won't come to that," Leeks said in an interview from his Hong Kong headquarters.
One specific skills shortage is of electrical and mechanical workers, not just at the airport but throughout the territory's increasingly sophisticated construction industry. The government is aware of the problem through twice monthly regular meetings to discuss progress. Despite the shortage, all construction work is on target at the moment, Leeks said.
This latest warning of a potential delay comes three months after a senior official from the Mass Transit Railway Corporation said 5,000 imported workers were needed to ensure the vital airport rail link was completed on time.
In a statement, the Hong Kong Government said 5,000 or 18 per cent of the new airport and related infrastructure's total labour force is imported.
The Special Labour Importation Scheme is set at 17,000 giving "ample" room for more imported workers providing local workers are given priority and their rights and benefits safeguarded, the statement said.
The Government also said the scheme has recently been made more flexible.and contractors facing a genuine shortage are encouraged to use it.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Regulators proposed Thursday to set aside $2.3 billion a year to link schools and libraries to the Internet at discounted rates, but declined to endorse President Clinton's call to hook them up free of charge.
Eligible institutions could buy access to the computer network at discounts of 20 percent to 90 percent, under the plan offered by an eight-member board of state regulators and members of the Federal Communications Commission.
"Schools will be able to connect every single classroom to the Information Highway," said FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, who oversaw the panel.
"The ramp will be a high-speed, high-bandwidth, cutting-edge connection. The discounts, tailored to each school's individual level of need, will make building and maintaining the ramp truly affordable for every school."
The Internet proposal is part of a broader plan to overhaul the multi-billion dollar "universal service" programme that ensures affordable phone service to rural communities and low-income neighbourhoods. The FCC must adopt rules by early May.
Officials hope the wide-ranging proposal, which stems from the new telecommunications law, eventually will generate lower phone rates through increased competition.
But some board members fear the plan -- to be paid for from the revenues of phone companies, cable TV operators and other communications carriers -- may prove too ambitious and ultimately push up rates.
"A universal service fund that taxes consumers billions of dollars a year is not only inconsistent with congressional intent, but could be extremely harmful nationwide to consumers," said Laska Schoenfelder, chairman of the South Dakota Public Utilities Commission.
Under the Internet provision, less well off institutions and those in out-of-the-way high-cost areas would be entitled to the larger discounts.
Officials said the average discount would be 60 percent. One-third of schools would get at least an 80 percent discount, and the poorest 15 percent would get a 90 percent discount.
"It is no secret and no surprise that access to technology in the nation's schools and classrooms is tremendously unequal," said Vice President Al Gore. "Wealthier schools are twice as likely as poor schools to have Internet access, and wealthier students use computers 20 percent more than their poorer peers."
But the plan stops short of the president's proposal to give schools and libraries free basic service, with the nation's communications carriers footing the bill.
In other areas, the board left many key provisions of its proposals vague, including the cost of the federal fund that would be used to subsidise carriers that offer phone service in high-cost rural areas and in low-income neighbourhoods.
Overriding the objections of some regulators, the board proposed to fund the federal programme through the interstate and intrastate revenues of telecommunications carriers.
Some state regulators objected to the use of intrastate revenues, saying such funds should be used only by the states to set up their own funds that would help provide distinct telecommunications services within their borders.
The board said that the current $3.50 a month subscriber line charge that residential customers now pay should not be increased. The charge is used to help fund universal service.
And it held out the prospect that the charge -- along with the "access" charges long-distance carriers pay to local phone companies to hook up to their networks -- could drop if the federal universal fund is indeed bankrolled by interstate and intrastate phone revenues.
Iomega Corp. said Thursday it plans to apply its computer storage technology to handheld consumer electronics in a way that could lower the cost of saving and transfering data to such devices.
The reusable data storage system, to be known as "n-hand," could be used in digital cameras, computer game devices, cellular phones and handheld personal computers known as digital assistants.
In cameras, for example, the technology could function as a removable "digital film" that would replace existing chemical photographic film.
"Our n-hand technology ... has the potential to change the way consumers use portable electronic devices," said Kim Edwards, president and chief executive of the Roy, Utah-based company, in a statement.
"We are bringing personal computer-like storage to portable devices," added George Meyer, Iomega's director of marketing for new business, in a telephone interview.
The n-hand disks are expected to be priced at less than $10 for a 20-megabyte disk, and could be available by the second half of 1997. Iomega said the n-hand disks are about half the size of a business card.
Several industry analysts said they believe Iomega's technology could help propel digital cameras into the consumer mainstream within a matter of years, by freeing users from the fixed capacity of existing flash memory storage and by substantially reducing the overall cost of such cameras.
A digital camera could store from 50 to 80 images on a single $10 n-hand disk, Iomega said, depending on image resolution. Consumers now pay hundreds of dollars for a flash memory card capable of holding the same number of images, it noted.
Jim Porter, a data storage analyst with market research firm Disk/Trend Inc. of Mountain View, Calif., said the Iomega technology could cut the cost of storing photographs by a factor of 20 times.
A Kodak digital camera costing $499 currently could be priced as low as $300 within a matter of years, he said, reflecting the elimination of more costly digital storage methods.
Iomega's plans pose a theat to makers of flash memory chips that are used to store digital information in such small electronic devices currently. Leading makers including Sandisk Corp., Intel Corp. and Toshiba Corp.
In addition, the Iomega system could help accelerate the current digital transformation of the camera industry, leading to a decline in revenues that cameramakers receive from conventional silver halide-based photo film and equipment.
"With 'n-hand' you have a digital camera that you can treat like a regular camera," Meyer said, referring to the replaceable nature of the Iomega high-density floppy disk system.
"This technology can make digital cameras much more competitive with regular ones," he said.
Besides lacking a low-cost removable storage medium, digital cameras offer inferior picture quality but image resolution is improving rapidly, analysts said. This could lead to explosive growth of the new cameras in coming years.
Shares of the company closed up $1.375 to $25.375 on active trading on Nasdaq. On Friday, Iomega's stock will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Fast-growing Republic Industries Inc., which is led by Florida entrepreneur Wayne Huizenga, said Thursday it would buy Alamo-Rent-A-Car Inc. for $625 million in a move to sharply expand its automobile business.
The deal comes less than six weeks after the collapse of Huizenga's $4.3 billion plan to buy security firm ADT Ltd.
"Leisure travel is a fast growing segment of the automobile rental industry and Alamo's innovative leadership in this growth sector of the automobile rental marketplace is consistent with our strategy of building consumer-oriented, service related businesses with recognised brand names and strong management," Huizenga said in a statement.
Republic is expected to use Alamo to expand its burgeoning auto business rooted in used-car company AutoNation USA.
Huizenga "wants to be the largest used-car sales, leasing and rental provider. It makes sense to have the Alamo fleet as a warehouse for his vehicles," said Andrew Jeffrey, analyst at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
Alamo is the fourth-largest rental car company in the United States, with a fleet of about 130,000 vehicles. Alamo operates in 42 states in the United States and has operations in 10 European countries and Canada.
Alamo founder and Chairman Michael Egan, who owns about 94 percent of the company, will continue as chairman of Alamo.
Huizenga said Republic's AutoNation USA car business will benefit from Alamo's strong relationships with manufacturers and other automotive suppliers.
"The combination of Alamo with Republic's 'like-new' automobile retailing concept is an exceptional fit that will enable AutoNation USA to accelerate its business plan and create a unique, dedicated and predictable source of inventory for our megastore distribution system," he said.
Republic bought used-car company AutoNation earlier this year and opened its first superstore about two weeks ago in Florida. It plans to open three or four more AutoNation stores this year and quickly expand the chain so there are some 80 stores around the nation by the end of the decade.
AutoNation will be supplemented by Republic's recent $95 million purchase of used-car superstore firm CarChoice Inc.
Investors praised the latest acquisition by Republic, bidding the company's stock up $2.875 to $33.625 on Nasdaq. The deal will be accounted for as a pooling of interests.
In addition to the automotive industry, Republic specialises in electronic security and solid waste companies. Huizenga also owns the professional Florida Marlins baseball, Panthers hockey and Dolphins football teams.
Huizenga suffered a setback in late September when his plan to buy security firm ADT was called off after weeks of uncertainty. Although the stock deal was viewed positively from a strategic standpoint, it fell apart due to volatility in Republic's stock and the inability of the companies to revise terms of the transaction.
Analysts saw little chance of that happening with Alamo.
"I think Alamo provides Republic everything that ADT did, plus more, from the auto side," said Jordan Hymowitz of Montgomery Securities, who rates Republic shares as a buy.
Republic also said it will pursue more car deals.
"We're interested in growing in virtually every segment of the automobile industry," spokesman Ronald Castell said, citing rental, used cars, repairs and financing.
The acquisition of Alamo marks the latest in a flurry of transactions in the rental car industry.
On Wednesday, ADT said it planned to sell its U.S. auto-auction business, ADT Automotive. The unit is the nation's second-largest automobile auction company, and its sale would mark ADT's complete exit from that business after it sold its European auto-auction unit last year.
Last month, hotel and real estate operator HFS Inc. bought Avis Inc., the world's second largest car rental company, for about $800 million. HFS has said it will pursue another similar acquisition and launch an initial public offering for part of its rental car subsidiary next year.
Ford Motor Co., which owns Hertz, in July announced it was expanding its rental car business with the acquisition of Budget Rent-a-Car. Ford already had owned part of Budget.
Meanwhile, Chrysler Corp. wants to sell subsidiaries Dollar Rent-A-Car and Thrifty Rent-A-Car.
Apple Computer Inc executives on Thursday showcased products and technology geared toward business computer users, reaffirming its committment to corporate markets.
Apple Chief Operating Officer Marco Landi, in a speech at at a software trade show, also said Apple will put much of its resources into making the Macintosh work smoothly with other computer systems from rivals such as Microsoft Corp, Sun Microsystems Inc and International Business Machines Corp.  
Apple has traditionally had a tough time selling its machines to big corporations, which prefer to buy machines based on Intel Corp computer chips running Microsoft software.
To win the favor of corporate programmers and technicians, Apple will release in coming months software and computers that can easily tap vital information stored in huge corporate databases, Landi said.
He also assured the audience of professional programmers that their investment in Apple technology and products is not in danger.  
"Apple may have its ups and downs, but you can be sure we will be there for the long haul," Landi said at Oracle Open World, a trade show for users of Oracle Corp's corporate software.
Apple executives demonstrated the company's network servers for storing and distributing data using Oracle database management software.
They also demonstrated Apple's HotSauce technology -- software under development to make it easy for average computer users to search huge databases without knowing esoteric computer languages and commands.  
In recent weeks, speculation has increased that Apple is close to buying Be Inc, a closely held software company in Menlo Park, Calif., to beef up its fundamental software.
Landi declined to comment about the speculation.
Other Apple officials said the company will outline its strategy for improving its Macintosh operating system in January.
-- Palo Alto desk +1 415 677 2542
Less than six weeks after the collpase of his deal to buy security firm ADT Ltd, Wayne Huizenga on Thursday shifted gears to rental cars.
The founder of Blockbuster Entertainment and owner of the Florida Marlins baseball team announced earlier that his Republic Industries Inc had signed a definitive pact to buy privately-held Alamo Rent-A-Car for $625 million.
The move is expected to catapult Republic's growing automotive business, which is rooted in used-car company AutoNation USA.
U.S. consumers are greeting the latest home computers -- faster than ever, but lacking new whiz-bang features -- with a collective yawn.
Major U.S. electronics retailers said Thursday that home PC sales were weak in October and analysts see few signs of a recovery without lower prices or a technology breakthrough.
"Everybody seems to have stopped buying PCs all of a sudden," said Janney Montgomery Scott analyst Terrence McEvoy.
Defying the downdraft are mail-order computer vendors and sellers of computers to business, which are both thriving.  
Their success reflects a shifting market, analysts said.
"The business today is less first-time buyers and more repeat customers," said Robertson Stephens analyst Edward Lee.
The pool of entry-level buyers is contracting and the PC industry increasingly relies on second- or third-time buyers, who are smarter than novices. Veterans look for vendors offering lots of peripherals, such as CompUSA Inc, or discount mail-order houses, such as Dell Computer Corp and Gateway 2000 Inc, analysts said.
That leaves generalists, like Best Buy Co and Circuit City Stores, to fight for a shrinking market.  
Eden Prairie, Minn.-based Best Buy, with 268 stores in 31 states, reported October sales were down 15 percent from a year ago on a same-store basis and said "the sale of personal computers was impacted by industry-wide weakness."
Richmond, Va.-based Circuit City saw an October decline in same-store sales of nine percent and cited "softness in the personal computer and ... consumer electronics categories."
Disappointing results were posted by Tandy Corp, owner of the RadioShack, Computer City and Incredible Universe chains. "Our results parallel the sluggish consumer electronics and personal computer retail market," Tandy said.  
"Demand is starting to dry up across the board," Lee said.
Best Buy shares Thursday fell 3-1/4 to 13 on the October report. Circuit City shares were up 3/8 to 34-7/8. Shares in Fort Worth, Texas-based Tandy were off 3/4 to 38-3/4.
At the same time, shares in Dell were up 1-1/2 to 88-5/8, while Gateway 2000 shares were up 3-3/4 to 52-3/4. Shares in computer and microprocessor manufacturers also rallied, with Intel Corp up 5-3/4 to 124-5/8 and International Business Machines Corp up 1 to 134-1/4.  
PC sales at this time last year were buoyed by promotions and the multi-media explosion. The home PC was transformed from a word processor into a high-quality game station and an educational tool for kids thanks to CD-ROM drives, speakers and soundcard packages and a bevy of new applications.
"Today, computers are faster than they were a year ago, but what does it do more?" Lee asked. "Demand is driven by applications and how it changes the typical consumer's life."
Savvy consumers could just be waiting for lower prices, of course, and analysts said if they keep dropping, there may yet be a holiday buying burst. But without some hot new features, the shopping season for PC retailers could be a cold one.
"When you've got Intel moving up five in one day and Best Buy moving down three the same day, that tells you something ... It's a tough business," said Securities Corp of Iowa analyst Pat Dunkerley.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk  312-408-8787
The nation's distillers Thursday formally reversed their 48-year-old voluntary ban on broadcast advertising of liquor, saying whiskey and gin should be treated just like beer and wine.
The announcement -- coming two days after the presidential election and just ahead of the holiday season -- affirms the decision by Seagram Co. Ltd. in June to begin airing TV ads for its Royal Crown and Chivas Regal whiskey.
That ad campaign has unleashed criticism from lawmakers, regulators and President Clinton. And the latest decision is sure to rachet up the debate.
"For decades, beer and wine have been advertised on television and radio while the distilled spirits industry has upheld its own voluntary ban," said Fred Meister, president of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS).
"The absence of spirits from television and radio has contributed to the mistaken perception that spirits are somehow 'harder' or worse than beer or wine and thus deserving of harsher social, political and legal treatment."
The reversal of the voluntary ban was adopted in DISCUS's "code of good practice."
The announcement drew an immediate rebuke from the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, who has made it clear he is opposed to the practice and has raised the specter of new rules that would bar such advertising.
"This decision is disappointing for parents, and dangerous for our kids," said FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, whose agency has begun a probe of the ad campaign.
Consumer advocates also objected. "Today's decision by DISCUS to dump its voluntary ban marks the beginning of an open liquor-marketing season on America's children and teens," said George Hacker of the Centre for Science in the Public Interest.
He urged President Clinton to renew his appeal to distillers to return to the voluntary ban, and he called on the Federal Trade Commission to assist the FCC in its probe.
In Congress, Representative Joseph Kennedy has offered legislation to make it illegal to advertise hard liquor on radio or TV.
Broadcasters, meanwhile, criticised the distillers' decision but stopped short of refusing to run liquor ads.
The National Association of Broadcasters advocated to continue leaving the decision on whether to air the ads to individual TV and radio stations.
"We believe this process has served American consumers well, since individual stations make and will continue to make judgments every day on what is most appropriate for their local audiences," said NAB President Edward Fritts.
Millennium Chemicals - the Hanson Plc company which is due to be floated off in New York on October 1 - said on Tuesday it planned a share buyback by the year 2000 after completing debt cutting and investment plans.
Millennium chairman and chief executive William Landuyt told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday that he also planned a low-yielding dividend policy as he saw the company as a growth stock.  
Millennium net debt levels are seen around $2.0 billion. Landuyt said the chemcials company would initiate a buyback by 2000 after reducing debt, implementing its capital expenditure plans and using proceeds from its steady cash generation.
Investment plans include continued expansion in the speciality products and regions including Asia-Pacific and Western Australia.
On dividend policy, Landuyt said the payout would not be high bearing in mind the need for investment and cutting debt. "Our payout will be around 60 cents a year or 15 cents a quarter."  
"We are not a dividend yield stock. We are a growth company," he concluded.
On trading, Landuyt said he expected SCM to be able to make its October price increases stick after heavy destocking by customers.
Quantum's recently reported improvement in pricing and demand also continues, he said.
He added that the recent plant closure at SCM would have a neutral trading profit impact because the plants were not profitable and had been replaced by new more efficient plant capacity.  
The closure had already resulted in $60 million of charges to write-off fixed assets, he said. But he revealed that a further $15 million charge still has to be levied.
--London newsroom +44 171 5427717
British clothing retailer Burton on Thursday showed off a 54 percent full year profit rise, breaking all stockmarket forecasts, and said shoppers were happier now than at any time since the early 1990's.
Pretax profits rose to 151.6 million pounds ($249 million) in the year to August 31 from 98.6 million on sales up 7.1 percent to 2.0 billion. The group raised its full-year dividend by 27 percent to 2.8 pence a share.
Chairman Sir John Hoskyns said all the group's divisions had reported an increase in full-year profits.
"This performance reflects the success of the trading strategies and continued brand building in every division," he said in a statement.
The retailer has had a long struggle to boost profit margins in what was until recently a depressed retail market. But the group has achieved a major turnaround.
Finance director Andrew Higginson said there was scope for more improvement in margins, although at a slower pace.
"There is still some scope for margin improvement this year, but be it at a lower pace. It will ease back somewhat from where we are at the moment," he told Reuters.
Higginson described the current trading environment as better than anything seen since the early 1990's, although he said it was certainly not booming.
Burton's Debenhams department store chain produced a 21 percent increase in profits to 102.8 million pounds. Hoskyns said the department store was set for a 20 percent increase in space over the next four years.
All the group's fashion stores, including Top Shop and Dorothy Perkins, made profits. Burton Menswear and Principles both moved back into the black after making losses last year.
Burton's shares rose on the better-than-expected results. The stock stood 1.5 pence higher at 146.5.
"The figures were at the top end of forecasts and we are still positive on the stock," said one senior trader.
Analysts had expected pre-tax profit of between 139.0 million and 149 million pounds.
Burton has just moved into home shopping via the acquisition of mail order group Innovations in August and Racing Green in October. But Higginson said the main focus of the group would remain with its stores.
"At the moment the focus is on the core retail division where the key oppurtunities lie," he said. "Home shopping is a medium-term project which will kick in in two to three years time." ($1=.6093 Pound)
Derek Pretty, finance director of troubled U.K. discount supermarket chain Kwik Save, said on Thursday a radical shake-up of the group, including the closure of 107 stores at a cost of 87.5 million stg, was the best way to ensure its future.
"We researched opportunities in other areas and we reviewed, among other options, mergers. We looked at whether we should go back to being a limited range discounter, with much lower choice, and little in terms of chilled food," he told Reuters.
"But that would have meant losing nine million customers."  
He said the store closure programme would involve less than 200 job losses, as 90 percent of the staff would be redeployed in Kwik Save's remaining 900 stores.
About 1,900 work in the 107 stores to be shut. "Yes, we are confident that the provisioning is solid and appropriate. Anything more than that would have put us in the realms of big baths and contigency buckets."
"We have looked at this particularly carefully, the days of doing big bath provisioning have gone. We have looked very specifically at the stores we plan to close. We are confident it is the proper provision to take us forward." he said.  
At a news conference chief executive Graeme Bowler said the company would introduce a new range of chilled foods, health and beauty products and over the counter medicines as well as widening its existing product range.
"We are going for width rather than depth in brands," he said. Kwik Save will have 100 own-label products in its stores from the spring 1997.
"We are not moving away from discounting prices. It is our core proposition and we will not dilute it," said Bowler. "We are not trying to be a mini-version of someone else, we want to be ourselves."  
"Kwik Save made its reputation because it sold quality products cheaply. We will not engage in selling cheap products cheaply," Bowler told reporters.
Stores will also be upgraded after research conducted by outside consultants Anderson Consulting, initiated in February, showed customers wanted stores to be more welcoming and easy to use, said Bowler.
Kwik Save would need to invest heavily in technology, where it was about two to three years behind the competition, said Bowler, so that, for instance, debit cards could be used at all its tills and stock levels could be better controlled.  
He acknowledged that the group had failed to invest enough in upgrading the fabric of its stores in previous years.
The new-style Kwik Save stores will be rolled out in geographical clusters over the next three years at a cost of some 300 million stg, funded from cost savings.
The 107 stores will be closed progressively next year.
Research had identified the need to beef up the management team and as a result Kwik Save has appointed a group marketing director and a supply chain director, and planned to appoint a new buying director, Bowler said.  
He stressed the underlying performance of the group remained strong, generating sales of seven billion stg over the last two years despite fierce price pressure from superstores, and a return on capital of 20 percent in line with the industry average.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Intuit Inc. shares jumped 24 percent Wednesday amid market speculation that American Express Co. is about to buy the struggling financial management software company.
Shares of Intuit, which publishes the best-selling Quicken personal finance computer program, surged $7 to close at $36.50 on Nasdaq. American Express rose 12.5 cents to $48.50 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Officials of both companies declined to comment about "market rumors," and an Intuit spokeswoman called the speculation "wild."
Analysts said American Express, the charge card and financial services company, would be interested in buying Intuit to enable it to jump into the booming online banking industry.
Intuit, analysts said, might be receptive to an offer because of increasing doubts about its future.
Even if American Express is not interested in acquiring Intuit, other companies may be, analysts said.
More than 9 million people, most of them affluent, use Intuit's Quicken to manage their finances and do their banking chores through their personal computers.
But Intuit's growth has stalled amid fierce competition with Microsoft Corp., a one-time suitor of Intuit, and a handful of banks which are offering online banking to their customers through the Internet.
"Intuit is staring down the barrel of a gun, and that gun is the Internet, which is making financial management easier," said Karen Epper, an online banking analyst at market researcher Forrester Research Inc in Cambridge, Mass.
Until two years ago, Intuit relied heavily on sales of its financial and tax software for its growth. Those sales have slowed as Intuit has cut prices.
Intuit also faces renewed competition from Microsoft, which tried to buy it in 1994. Microsoft dropped the acquisition in May 1995 because of opposition from government antitrust officials.
Since then, Microsoft, the world's biggest PC software company has spent hundreds of millions to take on Intuit.
To fuel its growth, Intuit set up a business two years ago to process online banking transactions between banks and depositors. Some investors saw the transaction business as a promising source of growth.
In September, however, Intuit sold its transaction processing unit, Intuit Services Corp., to rival CheckFree Corp.
Epper said Intuit's biggest challenge is figuring out how to grow. She said the company needs the backing of a bank or bigger computer company to fuel expansion into any new business.
General Motors Corp. can shrink its workforce under a United Auto Workers pact that differs significantly from contracts with Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp., the union disclosed Wednesday.
But the three-year GM agreement also contains tougher restrictions on using outside companies for parts, aimed at curbing job losses to lower-cost outside suppliers.
Following a unanimous approval by about 250 plant-level leaders gathered here Wednesday, GM's 215,000 rank-and-file UAW members are expected to ratify the pact by Nov. 17.
Despite the differences, most local officials said they were pleased with the pact.
"This agreement definitely sells itself," said Duane Zuckschwerdt, president of UAW Local 659 in Flint, Mich. "I don't foresee a problem with ratification."
In documents distributed to the leaders, the union said the contract calls for GM to follow Ford and Chrysler in maintaining employment at 95 percent of current levels, but contains certain key exceptions.
The pact allows GM to halt replacements of retiring workers when it makes efficiency gains in its factories -- a point that will be especially helpful to the automaker as it introduces new cars and trucks that can be built with fewer workers over the next several years.
Another provision allows GM to adjust workforces in plants and business lines located in larger geographic groupings than at Ford and Chrysler.
For example, GM's 13 factories in Flint, Mich., which employ nearly 28,000 workers, constitute a single grouping. As such, GM does not have to guarantee 95 percent of the jobs in each facility, only 95 percent of the total, which would allow the automaker to exit certain uncompetitive businesses.
Some plants in the Flint grouping remain at risk. GM's V-8 engine plant there is still scheduled to close in the third quarter of 1999, and the contract did not address the future of the Buick City assembly plant, which has been assigned no new product beyond the 1999 model year.
UAW officials say they hope to persuade GM to commit to new products to those plants.
GM wants to exit such labor-intensive businesses such as "cut-and-sew" interior trim operations because it maintains it cannot be competitive at base wage rates that will reach $21.59 an hour for the average assembly and parts worker by the end of the contract. Including benefits, GM's hourly labor costs exceed $43 per worker.
GM is currently negotiating to sell an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., and a door hinge plant in Flint, but UAW Vice President Richard Shoemaker said the contract gives no consent to the sale and does not exclude any other plants.
"We have not agreed they can sell those plants," he said. "If they do sell them, there isn't any question that they're covered by the GM national agreement."
However, Jim Macbride, a UAW international representative, warned that Livonia is among several plants that may wage local strikes against GM. "There's going to be a line in the sand drawn somewhere," he said.
Workers at GM's Janesville, Wis., truck plant began returning to work on Wednesday after a ratifying a deal to end a week-long strike. Most of GM's 123 locals are still in contentious negotiations over local agreements.
To help cushion the blow for workers that may be idled by productivity improvements and discontinued businesses, the UAW said GM has pledged to spend up to $3.75 billion to pay idled workers -- a $400 million increase over the company's committment under the previous contract.
Chrysler agreed to increase its income security committment by $200 million to a total of $551 million, while Ford did not add to its $1.156 billion income security fund.
GM faces more stringent outsourcing restrictions than Ford and Chrysler do. For example, when GM is contemplating a decision to put a product up for bid by outside firms, it must notify the union sooner in the process.
If GM selects an outside supplier to make the part, it must give the UAW at least 30 additional days to match the supplier bid. And the company also will now povide the union with a quarterly master list of parts made by outside firms.
Most other provisions in the agreement are identical to the Ford and Chrysler contracts. The pact calls for workers to receive $2,000 in the first year, followed by base wage increases of 3 percent in the second and third years.
The pact also includes a 13 percent increase in pension payments for workers under 62 with 30 years of service who retire during the agreement. Elimination of a cap on outside income earned by retirees is viewed as an incentive for older workers to retire.
Conrail Inc. Wednesday revised its takeover agreement with CSX Corp. to give shareholders more cash in the proposed railroad merger valued at nearly $8.5 billion.
The new terms immediately drew fire from investors who said the value of the cash-and-stock deal remained well below that of the rejected offer from unwelcome bidder, Norfolk Southern Corp.
Philadelphia-based Conrail, which announced its original offer on Oct. 15, said its board had considered the merits of the rival bids and reaffirmed that a merger with CSX was a superior strategic combination, despite the higher offer from Norfolk Southern.
"Our two companies have now agreed to significantly increase the value to be received by the Conrail shareholders, and Conrail's other constituencies will continue to get tremendous benefits resulting from the CSX merger," Conrail Chairman David LeVan said in a statement.
A source close to the companies said the Conrail board met until late Tuesday night and the two companies then hammered out the new agreement in the early morning hours of Wednesday.
A merger of CSX and Conrail would create one of the largest transportation companies in the world, including a rail system with some 29,000 miles (47,000 km) of track in 22 eastern states.
Under the revised offer, Richmond, Va.-based CSX will pay $110 cash per share for 40 percent of Conrail shares instead of the previous amount of $92.50. The remaining 60 percent will be exchanged at the original ratio of 1.85619 CSX shares for each Conrail share.
Based on CSX's current stock price, the deal values Conrail shares at about $93 each, or $8.46 billion compared with the original pact of $8.42 billion, market sources said.
Norfolk Southern has offered to pay $100 a share in cash, or $9.1 billion, for all of Conrail's outstanding shares.
CSX Chairman John Snow said the company's decision to raise its cash offer followed an analysis that identified at least $730 million in cost savings in a CSX-Conrail combination -- $180 million more than originally anticipated.
"Clearly, the combination of CSX and Conrail provides the best overall package of benefits to our constituencies, including customers, the communities we serve, and the public-at-large," Snow said.
But Conrail stockholders expressed opposition to the deal in a conference call with investors and Wall Street analysts. They said the new terms effectively offset recent erosion in CSX's stock price and do not significantly raise the value of the transaction.
"Some of the shareholders were really angry and said this was being crammed down their throats," said one expert on takeovers who listened to the conference call.
Other sources who participated in the call said several investors threatened to tender their shares for $110 and then vote against the proposed merger.
In addition to the price of the CSX deal, investors were also unhappy with a three-month extension of the time in which Conrail is locked into the deal. The revised pact says Conrail cannot withdraw or agree to a competing bid before July 12.
"It's an outrage. This thing is now locked up tighter than ever," said another participant.
Norfolk Southern, meanwhile, reaffirmed its offer and said it was reviewing its options.
Wall Street analysts said they expect Norfolk to raise its bid for Conrail in an effort to ignite more shareholder unrest with the proposed Conrail-CSX merger.
They speculated that Norfolk Southern could raise its $100 per share bid by as much as 10 percent without hurting its balance sheet or the benefits of a merger.
"If they raise their bid, it will be the icing on the cake. It will take a bid that is superior and widen the gap further," said Carole Neely of Brown Brothers Harriman &amp; Co.
"I think the price is getting rich, but I think there is at least a 50-50 chance they come back at least one more time," said Brian Routledge of Prudential Securities.
In addition to the new terms, Conrail also cancelled its shareholders' meeting scheduled for Nov. 14 and said a new meeting would be held in mid-December.
It also said that, under the amended terms, CSX's tender offer's expiration date and withdrawal and proration rights were extended until midnight Nov. 20.
A federal appeals court on Wednesday overturned a jury verdict that ordered Nintendo Co. Ltd. to pay $253 million for patent infringement.
With interest, the company could have been forced to pay nearly $300 million to tiny Alpex Computer Corp. for a technology allegedly used in the hugely popular Nintendo Entertainment System game device, Nintendo of America Chairman Howard Lincoln said in an interview.
But in a 16-page decision, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C., overturned the jury's decision that the Alpex patent had been infringed.
"It's a complete victory," Lincoln said. "I think our nightmare with these folks is over."
Alpex, which Lincoln described as a bankrupt mining concern, filed suit in 1986, charging Nintendo's 8-bit game device used a patented "bitmapping" display technology patented by two Alpex engineers in 1977.
In 1994 a U.S. District Court jury agreed and ordered Nintendo to pay a 6 percent royalty on each of the more than 35 million game units sold in the United States.
But a three-judge panel of the appeals court in Washington, which handles patent cases, said in a 16-page decision it found a "lack of substantial evidence to support a finding of infringement either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents."
Alpex's technology was used in early generation video games made by Mattel, Atari and Coleco. The company later won patent infringement settlements from Sega Enterprises Ltd. and others.
But with the appeal victory Nintendo preserved what Lincoln said was a perfect record of fighting in court to protect its intellectual property rights.
Lincoln said the case "cries out for a change" in the patent litigation system because it required a jury of laymen to sit through an eight-week trial that hinged on complex technical details of data storage and image display.
"The problem is you ask these juries to in effect become electrical engineers, and quite frankly the jury was not composed of electrical engineers," Lincoln said.
He also said the case was kept alive by lawyers working on a contingency-fee basis who stood to make huge profits.
While Alpex could appeal to the full appeals court or the Supreme Court, Lincoln said he was confident Nintendo would prevail.
Lawyers for Alpex could not be reached for comment.
Federal and state regulators raced Wednesday to finalise a multi-billion dollar proposal to ensure all Americans get quality and affordable phone service and that schools and libraries can hook up to the Internet.
An eight-member board of state regulators and members of the Federal Communications Commission is trying to figure out the size of a federal fund to subsidise "universal" service.
Estimates range anywhere from $4 billion to $12 billion a year. It could influence what consumers and businesses pay for their phone bills.
"Depending on how big the dollar figures are and what the recovery mechanism is, consumers may have something at stake," said Mark Cooper of the Consumer Federation of America.
The panel, established by the new telecommunications law, is scheduled to unveil its plans Thursday. Several issues are at stake, some of which were unresolved at the last minute.
"All the issues are still being discussed," said a state official requesting anonymity. "There will be sections where we need further clarification on issues."
Regulators must determine how local and long-distance companies, cable-TV operators, and other telecommunications carriers foot the bill to ensure that residents of secluded rural communities and poor inner-city areas get quality, affordable phone service.
They must spell out how the nation's schools and libraries will get hooked up to the Internet and at what cost.
And regulators must determine what roles the states and federal government will play in overseeing universal service.
The board must issue its recommendations to the FCC by Friday. The agency must then issue final rules by early May.
The nation's hundreds of local phone companies now provide universal service. It is funded in part via "access" charges that long-distance carriers such as AT&amp;T Corp. pay to hook up to the local phone network.
In 1994, local companies took in about $21 billion in interstate access charges. The seven regional Baby Bells received about $17 billion of that amount. Long-distance companies want those charges slashed.
Following are the issues the joint board is grappling with:
-- The extent to which schools and libraries should be hooked up to the Internet at discounted rates.
President Clinton has proposed giving these institutions free basic service, with the nation's communications carriers paying the tab. Members of the joint board disagree on whether every school, or every classroom, should be wired.
There also is disagreement over what discounts schools and libraries should receive.
-- The type of funding mechanism that would be used to pay for universal service. The telecom law requires that companies offering interstate phone service -- or virtually all carriers -- must foot the bill for universal service in an "equitable and non-discriminatory" manner.
A national fund will be established to pay for universal service. State regulators want the ability to establish and oversee their own funds as well. Those funds would be backed by intrastate phone revenues.
-- How to ensure phone service to low-income consumers. Poor Americans currently receive subsidised service through two plans, "Lifeline Assistance" and "Link Up America." Both are expected to be retained, expanded and improved.
-- How to determine the cost of subsidies for companies that offer phone service in high-cost, out-of-the-way areas such as rural communities.
The joint board has been examining whether to calculate such costs based on existing costs of providing such service, or a new model spelling out different "proxy" prices that would be used as a reference by regulators. The proxy prices would influence how much subsidies carriers would receive.
Shares in French sports equipment maker Groupe Salomon SA fell sharply for the second day in a row on Thursday after a long and steady rise which saw the share more than double in value this year.
Dealers said that the company, headed by Jean-Francois Gautier and based in the mountain region of Annecy in the east of France, had become the victim of a number of rumours which cast a pall over the dynamic picture of the company.
Salomon executives were in London on Thursday on the second day of an investors' road-show, discussing the recent first half sales figures.
"There are two rumours in the market. One is that a Japanese distributor has gone bankrupt, which could cost the company money, and the other is that the roadshow is going badly," a share dealer said.
Salomon was down 17 francs, or 3.83 percent, at 427 francs at 1141 GMT after having given in 26 francs on Wednesday.
"In fact one of our distributors in Japan, Olympic Sports Co has gone bankrupt. But that is already in the first half figures and it will not change anything on the group level," Salomon spokeswoman Linda Champtenois told Reuters.
Olympic Sports applied for court mediation with creditors on September 20 with debts of 34.83 billion yen and the Japan Securities Dealers Association (JSDA) cancelled the company's Over-the-Counter registration.
Salomon's Champtenois said that "everybody knows about the difficult market for winter sport equipment in Japan" and brushed off the effect on Salomon's results.
Meanwhile Salomon's Japanese subsidiary Salomon &amp; Taylor Made Co was trading in Tokyo at 810 yen, just above its life low of 790 yen and far below its year high of 1,790 yen. It was introduced on the OTC market in November 1995 at 1,800 yen.
On November 5, the Japanese unit reduced its parent six-months net results forecast to 288 million yen from 620 million yen and a comparable figure of 556 million.
Champtenois said that the roadshow in London had been long planned, followed on a September 30 visit to Edinburgh and was "going fine".
French dealers said that even if the rumours were unfounded and the Japan effect limited, they were a catalyst for profit-taking, especially now that the French market has hit a year high at a level not seen since in 1994.
Salomon has been a stock market darling. From a low of 171.50 francs on March 14 in 1995, Salomon rose to an all-time high of 494 francs on October 22 this year.
On October 30, it said its first half sales to end September, at constant currency rates, rose by 21.8 percent to 2.021 billion francs.
While hiking equipment -- walking boots and mountain gear -- was up by 68 percent and the Taylor Made golf equipment brand had a 77 percent increase in sales. Winter equipment, however, was down 16 percent. The Mavic cycle brand was up 4.1 percent.
Salomon had earlier forecast that its operating results for the 1996/97 year would be stable due to the cost of further diversification into snowboards with the aqcuisiion of Bonfire and the planned launch of new boards, shoes and fixtures in 1997 as well as new roller skates in 1998.
In the year to March 1996, Salomon made a net attributable profit of 308 million francs against 161 million last year.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452
Dominion Resources Inc. ended a day of speculation Wednesday by declaring it might bid for British regional utility East Midlands Electricity Plc in a deal that could be worth about $2 billion.
The bid would mark the lastest in a a line of U.S. utilities companies seeking to buy into the privatised British power supply business.
But in a statement published after the close of London trading, Richmond, Va.-based Dominion, which owns electric utility Virginia Power, said it would not make an offer at a price "much in excess" of East Midlands' closing price.
Sources close to the situation said that if the price "runs away tomorrow, then Dominion will run away."
East Midlands' share price leaped 70.5 British pence to close at 608 pence ($9.97) on Wednesday, lifting the Nottingham, England-based group's value to more than 1.2 billion pounds ($1.97 billion), as rumour swirled around it.
Dominion stock gained 75 cents to $39.75 on the New York Stock Exchage.
The sources said East Midlands had already cut costs "to the bone," adding that "the comapny needs investment to grow again."
East Midlands declined to comment on the Dominion statement.
Rumours that another bid was about to claim one of the few remaining independent regional electricity companies in England and Wales sent their shares soaring.
Besides East Midlands, Yorkshire Electricity Group Plc.'s shares rose 15.5 pence to 754 ($12.37), while Southern Electric Plc. jumped 21.5 pence to 669 pence ($10.97), and London Electricity Plc. gained 12.5 to 618 pence ($10.14).
The names of any likely bidders remained a mystery.
Dominion Resources is a medium-sized company in the United States, with a market capitalisation of around $6.6 billion and annual sales of around $4.7 billion.
In addition to Virginia Power, its main subsidiary, Dominion has a number of joint generation ventures in the United States and internationally, notably in South America. It also has an interest in gas and real estate.
If Dominion's board proceeds, the bid would be the latest in a series of U.S. companies that has turned up recently in the privatised British power supply business. Last week, a unit of U.S.-based CalEnergy launched a hostile 650 million pound ($1.07 billion) bid for Northern Electric Plc.
Northern Electric, which is due to release strong half-year results early in an attempt to attract a higher bid, saw its shares rise 1.5 pence to 634 pence ($10.40) on Thursday, adding to recent sharp gains.
Out of the 12 privatised cash-rich regional electric companies, seven have already changed ownership -- four of them to U.S. companies.
Toronto stocks soared to new highs on Wednesday as foreign investors jumped into Canada's financial markets, lured by falling interest rates and the recovering economy.
Shares in Canada's big six banks hit 52-week highs on the Toronto Stock Exchange, propelling the country's biggest stock market to its 53rd record close of 1996.
The Canadian dollar has also surged this week, hitting its strongest level in a year.
Declining interest rates, low inflation and falling budget deficits have combined to make Canada the flavor of the month, economists said.
"Overall, foreign investors have just become enamoured with Canada as a place for investment," Michael Gregory, an economist with Lehman Brothers, said in a telephone interview.
The Toronto Stock Exchange index of 300 stocks jumped 85.45 points to close at 5,749.92, fuelled by brisk action in interest-rate sensitive issues such as banks and utilities.
The index has gained more than 20 percent this year, compared to 20.7 percent for the Dow Jones industrial average and 17.6 percent for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index.
The Bank of Canada is expected to cut interest rates again as early as this week. The central bank has cut rates 19 times since May 1995 in a bid to revive a sluggish economy.
Bank of Canada Governor Gordon Thiessen said on Wednesday that Canada's improving economy gives the central bank more latitude to set Canadian rates independent of U.S. rates.
He added Canada is now in a better position to withstand a hike in U.S. rates than it has been in recent years.
"The economic outlook is favourable. We will soon see signs of the payoff for the difficult restructuring decisions taken in both the private and public sectors," Thiessen said.
After several years of belt tightening, Canadian governments have either balanced their budgets or are on track to wipe out huge deficits.
Canada's 1.2 percent inflation rate is one of the lowest in the world and less than half the U.S. rate.
Several Canadian banks cut residential mortgage rates on Wednesday to levels not seen in about three decades.
Gregory said he expected Canada to continue to outperform the United States on the rate front and that offshore investors recognised that.
"I think investors are coming to terms with the fact that Canadian interest rates -- because of low inflation and improving currency prospects -- should be below U.S. rates," he said. "Many investors are jumping on that and the Canadian dollar is undervalued. It's cheap."
The Canadian currency closed around C$1.3312 (75 cents) Wednesday after trading around C$1.3300 earlier in the session.
In stock trading, TSE's financial services group jumped 2.5 percent after soaring 3 percent Tuesday. Declining interest rates make bank lending more profitable and bank dividends more attractive for investors.
Soaring bank profits have also lured investors. The major banks report their year-end results in a few weeks and are on track for a third straight year of record profits.
Recent listings on the New York Stock Exchange have given Canadian banks a higher profile in the United States where they are considered cheap compared with U.S. bank stocks.
New York-based Morgan Stanley issued a recommendation on two Canadian banks on Tuesday and predicted a strong fourth quarter for the entire group.
The Toronto Stock Exchange soared and posted its 53rd record close of 1996 on Wednesday, driven by excitement in interest-sensitive issues and conglomerates.
The key TSE 300 Composite Index rocketed 85.45 points to close at 5749.92 points on 118.1 million shares.
The value of shares traded on Canada's largest equity exchange was the third-ever highest at C$2.18 billion (US$1.64 billion).
Toronto reached its highest value traded in one day in 1986, the exchange said.
Toronto is "a market that's generally under-owned in North America," said chief investment strategist Michael Metz of Oppenheimer &amp; Co, Inc.
Canadian bank stocks have benefitted from foreign interest, especially after U.S. brokerage Morgan Stanley upgraded Toronto-Dominion Bank and Royal Bank of Canada this week.
"The multiple revision that has taken place is not pushing the (banking) group into untenable territory, rather it is a valuation range that the Canadian banks deserve, relative to their peers in the U.S.," Best said.
In today's action, all of Toronto's 14 sub-indices surged higher except for gold issues, which fell on slipping bullion prices.
The conglomerate group gained the most, adding more than five percent. It was followed by consumer products, banks and transports.
Banks and interest-sensitive issues were among today's most heavily traded stocks.
Bank of Montreal, Canada's third largest bank, jumped C$0.95 to C$45.00 on more than three million shares while smaller National Bank of Canada rose C$0.35 to C$14.25.
Another hot stock was Canada's largest publicly traded firm BCE Inc., which gained C$2.00 to C$64.20.
National Mutual Holdings Ltd managing director Geoff Tomlinson said on Thursday that strong investment markets meant group earnings for the 1996/97 year were likely to be in line with the July prospectus forecasts.
"It's been a very kind year. I can't think of when the markets have been more conducive to our type of business," Tomlinson told Reuters in an interview.  
He said he could not give a formal forecast of the profit result for the just completed year to September 30 but an examination of the assumptions in National Mutual's share offer document would show the forecasts were likely to be met.
"You can go back and look at the investment assumptions in the share offer document and compare them with where we were at the end of September and we were in the fortunate position where most of the markets finished in line with predictions," he said.
"That would give you some underlying view that it's likely that our performance will be in line with that projection."  
National Mutual forecast in its offer document a consolidated net profit after tax of A$198 million for the year ending September 30, up from A$115.5 million in 1994/95.
The assumptions underlying the forecast included an Australian 90 day bill rate of 7.5 percent as at September 30, a 10-year bond rate of 8.75 percent at September 30 and a U.S. 10 year bond rate of 6.50 percent as at September 30.
The offer document, issued before National Mutual demutualised and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange last month, said its profit was not significantly sensitive to its stock market assumptions.
After four years of Sino-U.S. ties laced with near-miss trade wars, rhetorical broadsides and diplomatic sparring over human rights, Beijing is hoping for a new post-election approach from Washington.
Bill Clinton's electoral triumph on Tuesday may mean no change of occupant in the White House, but Beijing is hoping for a second-term transformation of the Democratic president's policy on China, diplomats and analysts said on Thursday.
"After this election (Clinton) doesn't need to worry about attracting votes," said Tong Tianqi, a international relations researcher at an institute under the State Council, or cabinet.
"We hope he will take a practical approach... it's possible he will change his approach," Tong said.
Relations between Beijing and Washington have been badly strained for years by disputes over trade, human rights, arms proliferation and Taiwan, but both sides say ties have warmed recently after a series of high-level meetings.
Beijing's hopes for change in Clinton's China policy are the flip side of the desire for stability in the fragile Sino-U.S. relationship that made Chinese academics and officials welcome his victory as the return of a devil they knew.
"The most important thing for us is stability in U.S. policy," said an official of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
After four years in office Clinton was a familar face to a Beijing leadership that preferred to deal with statesmen it knew, and the U.S. president's understanding of China had also grown, the analysts said.
Chinese officials and state media have spotlighted what they call U.S. obstruction to Beijing's long-coveted accession to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) as a key area of dispute.
China blames Washington for blocking its entry to the global trade body on favourable terms as a developing country, while U.S. officials say Beijing must do more to open its markets.
Chinese hopes for change in Washington's approach could be borne out as U.S. electoral passions faded, but deep-rooted differences meant the path of Sino-U.S. ties over the next four years was unlikely to run smooth, diplomats in Beijing said.
"The Chinese will be thinking: is this the point at which the Americans might kick in with some new set of suggestions on either WTO or human rights cooperation, or both," said a Western diplomat. "I wouldn't be suprised if there were some."
Clinton's meeting with Chinese president Jiang Zemin in the Philippines later this month on the fringes of a regional economic forum would be a key opportunity to bolster ties, diplomats said.
The presidential face-to-face will be the latest in a string of high-level contacts that officials on both sides hope will set relations on a more stable footing and lead to an eventual exchange of state visits.
While there appeared to be few immediate threats to the new Sino-U.S. cordiality, issues such as copyright piracy in China -- which has twice led both sides to the brink of a trade war -- and Taiwan would continue to dog ties, the diplomats said.
China's growing U.S. trade surplus would continue to raise hackles in Washington, while Beijing's human rights record would remain a major stumbling block -- despite the release on medical parole of dissident Chen Ziming on Wednesday, they said.
Chen's release came just seven days after a Beijing court jailed former student leader Wang Dan for 11 years following a brief trial that prompted U.S. expressions of deep concern.
Wang's sentence was just the latest blow to China's tiny band of pro-democracy dissidents, most of whom were already in exile or serving long sentences in detention or jail.
Washington was tired of scuffling with Beijing over its treatment of dissidents, but China would need to make bigger concessions if it hoped to bring an end to the annual threat of U.S.-backed censure at the U.N. Human Rights Commission in Geneva, said a diplomat.
"I don't think that (Chen's release) would be effective," he said. "It's pretty small compared with what went before."
The leader of Hong Kong's biggest pro-Beijing party said on Thursday the China-appointed interim legislature Beijing plans to set up next month would not clash with existing institutions before the handover.
Tsang Yok-sing, leader of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong (DAB), said the possibility that the provisional legislature would meet on the communist-ruled mainland rather than in Hong Kong has not been ruled out.
Britain is handing Hong Kong, its last major colony, back to China as an autonomous Special Administrative Region in 236 days' time, ending a century and a half of colonial rule.
Hong Kong's political establishment, and the governments of Britain and China, are polarised over China's plan to dissolve the elected Legislative Council (Legco) on July 1 and replace it with a provisional body until elections in 1998.
The plan is China's response to an enlargement of the democratic franchise by Governor Chris Patten, which Beijing has said violated the handover agreements.
In an interview with Reuters, Tsang said Hong Kong's constitutional arrangements did not prevent the provisional legislature from becoming Hong Kong's legislative body on July 1, after the sovereignty transfer.
"That is the date from which onwards, the provisional body is supposed to be involved in legislative work," Tsang said.
"Before that date, although the body is there, the Preparatory Committee and also some Chinese officials in charge of Hong Kong affairs have made it very clear that this provisional body will not be a legislature of Hong Kong."
The China-controlled Preparatory Committee has elected a 400-member body that will select both the territory's first post-colonial leader, the chief executive, and the provisional legislature. Both selections will be announced next month.
Critics portray the provisional legislature as a rubber-stamp body appointed by China that will enact repressive laws and eliminate many basic freedoms.
But Tsang told Reuters the committee process to establish the provisional body was just as much an election as the electoral arrangements for Legco, some of whose members are only indirectly elected.
Tsang, whose DAB fared badly against the popular Democratic Party in the September 1995 Legco elections, insisted that China had not breached the 1984 Sino-British treaty on the handover.
"China is abiding by the Joint Declaration. China is not going to set up a parallel legislature in Hong Kong before the actual handover," Tsang said.
"The place where the provisional body will work before July 1 next year has not been thoroughly discussed," he said.
"If people believe it would be inappropriate for the provisional body to meet in Hong Kong before July 1, 1997, then it can meet somewhere outside the territory," he said.
The leader of the Democratic Party, Martin Lee, said the provisional body would be illegal and that if the government did not take it to court, then he would do it himself.
"It's the last ditch battle for Hong Kong," Lee said. "We should fight against it with all our might."
Lee, who plans to lobby Britain next week to take firmer action, said the provisional legislature would roll back civil liberties and have dissidents jailed as they are in China.
China's crackdown, highlighted by the 11-year jail sentence handed to student leader Wang Dan last week, was a sign of what Hong Kong would be like after 1997, Lee said.
"Today Wang Dan, tomorrow you and me," he said.
Leading Chinese dissident Chen Ziming has been placed under tight police surveillance after his release on medical parole and needs permission to consult a doctor, a relative said on Thursday.
"Some conditions (after his parole) are not as good as when (he) was in prison," the dissident's sister, Chen Zihua, said after meeting him earlier on Thursday at his home.
"When he was in prison he could still go downstairs for some air," she said in a telephone interview. "(Now) he can't even go downstairs to get some sun... He cannot go out."
Chen Ziming has been under tight police surveillance since he was released on medical parole and returned to his eighth-floor Beijing home late on Wednesday.
Asked about Chen's plans, the sister said he did not talk about anything besides his wish to get medical treatment.
The dissident needs police permission to see a doctor, the sister said. He has heart, liver and digestion problems. He had been treated for cancer.
He is barred from talking to foreign reporters. Uniformed and plainclothes police on Thursday prevented reporters from approaching Chen's home and that of his parents.
Asked if the dissident was under house arrest, Chen's sister said: "(I'm) afraid it's a little graver than that. It's just moving the prison from one place to another."
But his release was a welcome surprise to the family.
"We felt surprised to a certain degree. Of course, (we) are happy (he) could be released," the sister said. "His medical parole...was a little unexpected."
Chen, 44, was sentenced to 13 years in prison in 1991 for engaging in "counter-revolutionary", or subversive, activities during a student-led campaign for democracy that was centred on Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989.
Chen had been singled out by Beijing authorities as the "black hand" behind-the-scenes organiser of the demonstrations, which were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
He won medical parole in 1994 in a move widely seen as part of a successful bid by Beijing to persuade Washington not to revoke China's Most Favoured Nation trade status on grounds of persistent human rights violations.
Chen was returned to prison on June 25, 1995, after joining calls for Beijing to release political prisoners and reverse its verdict that the Tiananmen Square protests were seditious.
His release on Wednesday came seven days after a Beijing court took less than four hours to convict former student leader Wang Dan and sentence him to 11 years in prison for plotting to subvert the government.
Wang's imprisonment was the latest in a series of crushing blows to China's embattled dissidents, most of whom were already either in exile or serving long terms in administrative detention or prison.
Asked if Chen's release was a gift to U.S. President Bill Clinton on his re-election, the sister said: "It gives (Clinton) face."
Human rights have long been a major irritant in Sino-U.S. ties already strained by disputes over trade, copyright piracy, arms proliferation and Taiwan.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher is scheduled to travel to Beijing this month for a visit widely seen as a vital step toward rebuilding the cross-Pacific relationship.
Stocks of high-tech companies soared Wednesday after a potentially costly ballot proposal was voted down in California, and top executives found themselves relishing their roles as political activists.
A group of top-level entrepreneurs and executives met behind closed doors Wednesday to work on a broader political alliance after the ballot measure, which would have made it easier for shareholders to file lawsuits, was defeated by a 3-1 margin.
"A year ago, this (Silicon) valley politically was naive, not involved, not organised and not effective," said John Doerr, the partner at venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers who led opposition to the ballot measure, known as Proposition 211.
The measure was promoted by a group of securities lawyers including San Diego attorney William Lerach, whose lawsuits brought on behalf of shareholders after a company's stock plunges irritate corporate executives.
But California's high-tech firms jumped into action, raising an estimated $38 million and mobilising 5 million employees, shareholders and customers in a major grass-roots campaign in the months before election day.
That amount, coupled with $13 million spent by proponents of 211, rivaled the money spent by labour groups nationwide as they sought to put friendly legislators, mostly Democrats, in Congress.
It was also more than was needed to start up Sun Microsystems Inc., Cisco Systems Inc., and Intel Corp. combined.
Final returns show the measure lost by a 3-1 margin, which brought relief to Wall Street investors who were nervous that passage would bring a raft of shareholder lawsuits to California.
Shares of high-tech companies surged on the news, with Intel soaring $4.75 to an all-time high of $118.75 on Nasdaq. After the market closed, the company released bullish news on its fourth quarter business trends.
Texas Instruments jumped $4.25 to $53 on the New York Stock Exchange and Microsoft added $3 to $144.50 on Nasdaq.
"We defeated the jackals of Proposition 211, the carrion feeders who take away our profits," James Cramer, principal of money management firm Cramer Partners in New York, said of the stock rally.
Silicon Valley executives, who had warned of wide-scale resignations of officers and directors in California if the measure had passed, applauded its defeat and said they would support continued political activism.
John Young, acting chairman of Novell Inc., said the campaign was unprecedented among high tech firms, and could be the start of a multi-year corporate commitment.
Cisco Systems Chief Executive John Chambers said his company and others had been so focused on fast-changing high-tech markets that they had neglected politics.
"We were concerned with just doing our business and we were letting other people fight our fights for us, which is wrong," he said.
While political activism could be a distraction, it was also important to address political issues before they got out of control, he said.
"It's 'pay me now or pay me later,'" he said in an interview, predicting continued political engagement.
Doerr told chief executives, corporate lawyers and venture capitalists gathered at a celebration late on Tuesday that he expected executives now to focus on issues of fostering growth, education, legal reform and economic opportunity.
He said the anti-211 effort demonstrated Silicon Valley to be "a state of mind, not a place," which due to the spread of high-tech businesses, in effect, extends from Massachusetts to California and from Florida to Washington state.
Executives here are already talking about the prospect of another battle with plaintiff's lawyers, who are rumoured to be mulling new ballot initiatives in other states, or the possibility of targeting high tech firms more narrowly.
Veronika Hirsch, the flamboyant Canadian stock picker hired recently to spearhead Fidelity Investments' drive to dominate the Canadian market, has been removed from her fund as she is probed by Canadian regulators.
The dramatic move -- just three months after Canada's so-called "Fund Diva" joined the mutual fund giant -- is a blow to Fidelity's expansion efforts in Canada, analysts said.
Hirsch, who was unavailable to comment, is embroiled in a controversy over personal trades she made before joining Fidelity, the world's biggest mutual fund company.
Her investments earlier this year in a small Vancouver company, Oliver Gold Corp., grabbed headlines and attracted the attention of the British Columbia Securities Commission.
Late Wednesday, Fidelity ousted Hirsch from her portfolio and said her status was "under discussion." Fidelity also took the unprecedented step of offering clients their money back without penalty.
The fund has grown to C$190 million ($143 million) in assets since it was launched amid much fanfare on Sept. 23.
Fidelity's head office in Boston declined to comment and referred all calls to its Canadian subsidiary.
"We acknowledge that it is highly unusual for a fund to change portfolio managers so quickly after its launch. This fee recovery program is a proactive and voluntary response on our part to maintain investors' goodwill," Fidelity Canada spokesman Chethan Lakshman told Reuters.
Fidelity vigorously defended Hirsch when the controversy first broke several weeks ago. But it canceled a 27-city road show last week when regulators contacted Hirsch.
At issue is her purchase of 65,000 special warrants of Oliver Gold through a private placement while she was a fund manager with AGF Management Ltd. in Toronto.
Hirsch paid C$1.53 ($1.15) per warrant, according to filings with the British Columbia Securities Commission and reported by Stockwatch, a Canadian investment publication.
Shortly afterward, Hirsch's AGF Growth &amp; Income Fund bought 295,000 special warrants at more than double that price.
Analysts said regulators are expected to review whether the trades constitute "front running", a practice whereby a fund manager tries to profit personally by buying securities he or she intends to buy later for the fund.
Another related issue is whether Hirsch, a resident of Ontario, used an address in British Columbia to buy the Oliver Gold shares, which were only offered to B.C. residents.
Lakshman contended the controversy has not damaged Fidelity's reputation or expansion plans in Canada. But analysts saw the publicity as damaging as Fidelity gears up for the critical year-end sale of retirement savings plans.
"They look kind of foolish being the ones associated with this situation. I don't think it helps their bid to become the dominant player in Canada by any stretch of the imagination," one industry analyst said.
The Hirsch case comes as Canadians are pouring billions of dollars into mutual funds. Over the last six years, investment has jumped seven-fold to C$180 billion ($136 billion).
Fidelity wants a bigger share of the Canadian market, where it ranks ninth with C$7 billion ($5.2 billion) in assets, behind leader Investors Group, with C$22 billion ($16 million).
To quarterback its effort in Canada, Fidelity poached Hirsch, a high-profile stock picker with AGF, for a rumored C$2 million ($1.5 million) signing bonus in August.
Her meteoric rise to celebrity status began when she joined AGF in October 1995 after a successful but low-profile stint at Prudential Insurance Co. of America.
A multi-million advertising campaign put Hirsch's face on television screens across the country. She soon rivalled celebrity stock guru Frank Mersch at Altamira Management Ltd. as the country's best-known fund manager.
When Hirsch jumped to Fidelity, her blood-red nails and leather outfits appeared an uncomfortable fit with Fidelity's ultra-conservative culture, but the hiring was considered a major coup within the industry.
At the time, Fidelity Canada President Kevin Kelly said: "Veronika is one of the country's top equity managers with an outstanding track record and reputation."
Kelly was unavailable for comment on Thursday.
Industry critics argue that the Hirsch case raises key questions about the fiduciary responsibility of fund managers to their clients. It also highlights the jumble of standards governing the personal investing of Canadian money managers.
Altamira has tough rules restricting managers from investing in open-ended mutual funds, short-term government bonds and treasury bills after a controversy involving one of its fund managers.
But some industry observers say the entire industry should adopt tougher U.S. guidelines.
Everything old is new again in the aging gold zone near Timmins in Northern Ontario.
Exploration has exploded in the area, which has been mined since the early 1900s.
While most Canadian exploration companies are off making inroads in South America and Asia, a handful of innovative and optimistic junior companies are staying behind, hoping to strike gold on their home turf.
The nation's top communications regulator Friday appealed to nearly 1,200 television stations nationwide to adhere to a voluntary ban and refrain from airing liquor advertisements.
Federal Communications Commission Chairman Reed Hundt, speaking a day after a liquor industry group said it would end its own voluntary ban on radio and TV promotions, also said he had no immediate plans to issue rules to block such ads.
"That is a long, long and hard road to travel," Hundt said of the rulemaking process.
For now, the FCC chairman plans instead to use his position as a bully pulpit to convince TV stations not owned by the four major networks to abstain from showing ads for gin, whiskey and other spirits.
Seagram Co. Ltd. in June began airing TV ads for its Royal Crown whiskey in selected local markets.
The National Association of Broadcasters (NAB), while "disappointed" with the lifting of the decades-old ban by the nation's distillers, declined to embrace Hundt's call for a voluntary ban.
Hundt applauded the decision by the big networks -- ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox -- to leave unchanged their own policies against accepting liquor ads. Together, the four own about 50 stations in major markets.
That leaves just under 1,200 commercial stations scattered across the nation not owned by the major networks.
"The government has many, many options available to it. It's not necessary for these options to be explored if the broadcasters will stand up the way the four major networks have done," Hundt told a news conference.
NAB President Edward Frits, however, noted that "over the years, individual stations have adopted their own standard regarding the acceptability of hard liquor advertising.
"We believe this process has served American consumers well, since individual stations make and will continue to make judgments every day on what is most appropriate for their local audiences," he said in a statement.
On Thursday, the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, or Discus, said it formally ended its decades-old voluntary ban on radio and TV liquor ads. The ban had been in place since 1936 for radio and 1948 for TV.
The group said distillers should enjoy the same right to promote their products as beer and wine producers, whose ads are carried on TV. Over the past 14 years, liquor consumption in the United States has tumbled 28 percent, to 325 million gallons last year from 449 million in 1981.
The Seagram ad campaign already has unleashed criticism from lawmakers, regulators, consumer advocates and President Clinton. The FCC has opened its own probe of ads shown in Texas and New Hampshire.
Meanwhile, other liquor makers have said they are planning their own ad campaigns or are considering their options.
The outcome of a bidding war for Conrail Inc is increasingly likely to be decided by its investors, who will ultimately determine if the railroad should strike an $8.5 billion deal with CSX Corp when a $10 billion offer is also on the table.
Wall Street experts said Conrail was unlikely to be swayed from its planned merger with CSX despite a higher bid lobbed Friday by Norfolk Southern. "Nothing has changed. I think a lot will depend on what happens with the shareholder vote," said Jeff Medford of William Blair &amp; Co.  
Conrail has agreed to a stock and cash transaction with CSX valued at about $8.5 billion. Norfolk Southern, which had already outbid CSX, earlier Friday sweetened its all-cash offer to $10 billion.
Shareholders are considered key to the Conrail-CSX transaction because Pennsylvania corporate law prohibits CSX from buying more than 20 percent of Conrail in a tender offer without their approval. A shareholder meeting is slated for mid-December.  
Some shareholders have expressed unhappiness with the proposed CSX transaction. Conrail "won't win the shareholder vote," predicted one arbitrager.
Arbitragers, who have been among the most vocal opponents of the Conrail-CSX deal, said that Norfolk Southern would further strengthen its position by aggressively urging  Conrail shareholders to defeat the CSX proposal.
"It's got to be like Bob Dole's marathon, but with a more successful conclusion," said one, referring to the 96-hour campaign blitz launched by the losing U.S. presidential candidate in the days before this week's election.  
Norfolk Southern chairman David Goode declined to be specific about the company's plans to woo shareholders.
"The numbers in our bid speak for themselves. It should be readily apparent that it's a superior offer. We're willing to talk to all of the constituencies involved, including shareholders and others who are interested in this, and we are doing that," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Conrail has said it will review the new Norfolk Southern offer, but the Philaelphia-based railroad also has defended the CSX transaction as a better strategic match.  
"We have high regard for Norfolk Southern and its board, but we simply do not believe that a sale of Conrail to Norfolk Southern is in the best interest of Conrail and its constituencies," Conrail wrote Norfolk Southern on Thursday before the bid was raised.
The new Norfolk Southern bid reflects an 18 percent premium over CSX's plan, which values Conrail at about $93 per share. Norfolk Southern has raised its bid to $110 per share.
Shares of Conrail rose 2-1/4 to 95-1/4 after the new bid.
Wall Street experts said Conrail and CSX, which already revised the terms of their transaction once, may feel pressured again to increase the portion of cash in their deal. However, most industry experts do not expect a revised bid to top the offer made by Norfolk Southern.
Iomega Corp's plans to apply its computer storage technology to handheld consumer electronics may fundamentally lower the cost of saving and transfering data to such devices.
The reusable data storage system, to be known as "n-hand," could be used in digital cameras, computer game devices, cellular phones and handheld personal computers known as digital assistants.  
In cameras, for example, the technology could function as a removable "digital film" that would replace existing chemical photographic film.
"Our n-hand technology ... has the potential to change the way consumers use portable electronic devices," said Kim Edwards, president and chief executive of the Roy, Utah-based company, in a statement.
"We are bringing personal computer-like storage to portable devices," added George Meyer, Iomega's director of marketing for new business, in a phone interview.  
The n-hand disks are expected to be priced at less than $10 for a 20-megabyte disk, and could be available by the second half of 1997. Iomega said the n-hand disks are about half the size of a business card.
Several industry analysts said they believe Iomega's technology could help propel digital cameras into the consumer mainstream within a matter of years, by freeing users from the fixed capacity of existing flash memory storage and by substantially reducing the overall cost of such cameras.  
A digital camera could store from 50 to 80 images on a single $10 n-hand disk, Iomega said, depending on image resolution. Consumers now pay hundreds of dollars for a flash memory card capable of holding the same number of images, it noted.
Jim Porter, a data storage analyst with market research firm Disk/Trend Inc. of Mountain View, Calif., said the Iomega technology could cut the cost of storing photographs by a factor of 20 times.
A Kodak digital camera now costing $499 could be priced as low as $300 within a matter of years, he said, reflecting the elimination of more costly digital storage methods.  
Iomega's plans pose a theat to makers of flash memory chips that are used to store digital information in such small electronic devices currently. Leading makers include Sandisk Corp, Intel Corp and Toshiba Corp.
In addition, the Iomega system could help accelerate the current digital transformation of the camera industry, leading to a decline in revenues that cameramakers receive from conventional silver-halide-based photo film and equipment.
"With 'n-hand' you have a digital camera that you can treat like a regular camera," Meyer said, referring to the replaceable nature of the Iomega high-density floppy disk system.
"This technology can make digital cameras much more competitive with regular ones," he said.
Besides lacking a low-cost removable storage medium, digital cameras offer inferior picture quality but image resolution is improving rapidly, analysts said. This could lead to explosive growth of the new cameras in coming years.
Shares of the company closed up $1.375 to $25.375 on Thursday in active trading on the Nasdaq. On Friday, Iomega's stock will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
-- New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Shares in Anglo-Dutch consumer group Unilever Plc jumped on Friday after the group posted a better-than-expected five percent rise in third-quarter profits.
The company announced that profits rose to 826 million pounds ($1.4 billion) for the quarter, boosting the share price by 75p to 1,350 by the official close of the London market at 1630 GMT.
"I gritted myself for something rather unpleasant and its turned out very well," said David Lang, an analyst at Henderson Crosthwaite.
The results beat analysts' forecasts which ranged from 760 million pounds to 820 million.
"I think there is quite a lot of momentum in Unilever and that is before the benefits of management reorganisation which began in September," said Lang.
Before an exceptional charge of 32 million pounds, mostly to reshape Diversey, its newly acquired industrial cleaning business, pretax profits rose six percent to 918 million pounds.
"The total charges were clearly lower than we expected," said Richard Newboult, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. He had forecast a total restructuring charge of 74 million pounds with about half of that related to Diversey.
Diversey, acquired in January from Canadian brewer Molson for 360 million pounds, was merged with Lever Industrial in October to form a combined business with annual turnover of 1.15 billion pounds and a workforce of 13,000 in 60 countries.
Unilever owns a range of household brands including Persil and OMO washing detergents, Brooke Bond tea, Ponds cosmetic cream and Walls and Igloo frozen foods.
"Although poor weather had a negative effect on ice-cream sales, other parts of the business in Europe did well," said Unilever press officer Mike Haines.
Analysts and stock market dealers agreed. Despite the impact of a dull summer on ice-cream sales and profits, Unilever still managed to improve its profit by 13 million pounds to 502 million in the three month period from improved profits in detergents, frozen foods and personal products.
"The real strength came from the emerging markets of Latin America and Asia Pacific and the strong underlying performance in North America," added Haines.
The Asia-Pacific region turned in a 20 million pounds increase in profits to 108 million in the third quarter, Latin America was up 14 million pounds at 79 million, while Africa and the Middle East showed a nine million rise to 56 million pounds, reflecting changes made by the group to its Nigerian business.
($1=.6093 Pound)
Spirits, pubs and Dunkin' Donuts group Allied Domecq is likely to post a big drop in full-year profits on Tuesday, hit by a 320 million stg loss on the sale of its 50 percent stake in brewer Carlsberg-Tetley (C-T).
Before this exceptional charge, analysts' forecasts for pretax profits range from 560 to 581 million stg, down from 645 million last time, with most of the damage coming in Allied's spirits arm. Profits have been hit by the weak Mexican peso, tough trading conditions in the mature markets of Europe and America and de-stocking in the United States.  
The consensus forecast for the total dividend is 23.6p.
Allied sold its share in C-T to Bass in August for 200 million in cash together with its beer brands, allowing the group to quit brewing and concentrate entirely on its spirits and retailing businesses.
Allied said at the time it expected a loss on the sale of C-T of about 320 million stg.
After tax the company said it would mean a reduction in reserves of some 200 million stg.  
At Allied Domecq Spirits and Wines, many analysts are predicting a 60 million drop in trading profits from the 488 million stg recorded in 1995. Stock reduction and weak markets dented profits at the division in the first half, too.
In the United States where trade stocks of four major brands -- Kahlua, Beefeater, Courvoisier and Canadian Club -- built up last year, Allied was forced to start reducing stock levels by half a million cases which it expected to complete by the end of August 1996.
Some analysts think this de-stocking will strip 40 million stg off operating profits from the group's spirits arm.  
Trading profits from Allied's spirits and wine division dropped to 258 million stg for the six months ended February 29 from 327 million.
"Spirits will continue to show that things are tough although we are now seeing price increases of two to three percent coming in for the industry as a whole," said Mark Puleikis, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.
Allied's retailing division, which includes managed pubs as well as Baskin-Robbins and Dunkin' Donuts, is expected to post only a slight improvement in profits of some eight million to 223 million.  
"Although the managed pub side will improve, let's say it will add about about 12 million pounds to give 127 million at an operating level, Dunkin' Donuts and Baskin Robbins will drag the division down," said one analyst who declined to be named.
In franchising, poor winter weather held back same-store sales growth particularly in Baskin-Robbins during the first half.
Carlsberg-Tetley is forecast to chip in trading profits of some 65 million at the year-end up from 61 million. In the six months to 29 February 1996 it made trading profits of 25 million, an increase of 14 percent on the same half last year.  
Attention will focus on what management has to say about continued pressure from the investment community for a demerger of Allied's spirits division.
Allied shares touched a five-month high of 492p on Friday. "Obviously people are hoping there will be some news on a demerger," said one analyst who chose not to be named.
"A trading demerger would really add value to the group. The City has obviously done its sums and worked out it is worth about five pounds on a post-demerger basis," said another.
A Reuter poll of 24 brokers shows a consenus forecast for earnings per share of 33.7p rising to 37.4 next year.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Everything old is new again in the ageing gold zone near Timmins in northern Ontario.
Exploration has exploded in the area, which has been mined since the early 1900s.
While most Canadian exploration companies are off making inroads in South America and Asia, a handful of innovative and optimistic junior companies are staying behind, hoping to strike gold on their home turf.
Established producers in the area, 438 miles (700 km) north of Toronto, are expanding and sinking millions of dollars into new exploration.
"We've had lots of speculative money coming in. It's got a lot of people interested," said Lorne Luhta, geologist for the Ontario Ministry of Northern Development and Mines. What better place to look but around Timmins, where there's been a history of gold."
Junior explorer Band-Ore Resources Inc. has attracted the most attention, after hitting mineralisation last February just outside the traditional mining camp.
"We kind of went against the trend," said Bruce Durham, vice president of Band-Ore. As everyone else was going off to Chile and Mexico and Africa and Asia, we sat here in Timmins and put together a large land position."
Band-Ore's find inspired other exploration companies to set up in the area and a couple of them have drilled some "interesting" holes, said mining analyst Barry Allan with Gordon Capital.
Major companies with established mines in the area have also been exploring and expanding.
Royal Oak Mines Inc. said this autumn it discovered more gold on its Timmins and nearby Matachewan holdings and decided to expand production. It is now reshaping operations to put Timmins at the centre of its production.
Echo Bay Mines Ltd. is considering an open pit mine at nearby Night Hawk Lake and Kinross Gold Corp. has been steadily increasing its reserves at its Hoyle Pond Mine and it has set up a separate exploration company to search out more prospects in the area.
Gold giant Placer Dome Inc. is turning its old underground deposit into a huge, low-cost, low-grade open-pit.
"One of the things that's rejuvenating the area is Placer Dome looking at their operation as a large, low-grade open pit as opposed to an underground operation," said Band-Ore's Durham.
A new emphasis on large, low-grade deposits has changed the way Placer Dome approaches mining in the area, confirmed Paul Burchell, senior geologist for Placer Dome in Timmins. "Our ideas have changed, and certainly the economics have changed for us."
The major producers have created an intricate infrastructure in the Timmins area that makes it attractive for exploration companies, said Durham. "We've got roads, workforce, cheap power and reliable workers. It can really help to keep the cost down."
But new technology has been the biggest boost for exploration in Timmins. Most of the old discoveries in the area were found where mineralised rock lies near the ground surface, said Burchell.
The areas being explored are covered with a thick layer of sand, gravel and clay. "It acts as a very effective mask. The gold has no signature," said Burchell.
With new exploration equipment, junior mining companies -- their pockets lined with the riches of the ongoing boom in exploration stocks -- can find fresh drilling targets.
But exploration in the area is expensive. And it takes more than money and persistence drilling to hit gold.
Band-Ore disregarded the traditional beliefs about geology in the area and explored in new directions.
"We kind of went contrary to that, reinterpreted some geophysical data and some of the old work done in the area, and came up with some new ideas," said Durham.
"It's one of those ideas that paid off."
Delayed export financing is slowing Ivory Coast cocoa arrivals but shipments for existing contracts will continue ahead of an imminent government decision on licences and marketing rates, exporters and shipping sources said on Friday.
"The central bank has stopped backing private lenders," said one exporter. "Buying activity has slowed down in the past two days."
No immediate figures on  latest arrivals were available on Friday.
At least one major bank has stopped financing, and exporters expect others to follow suit unless rates are published soon.
"Exporters with licences from 1995/96 and enough money are carrying on buying and shipping. November contracts are fewer than December but still have to be met," said one exporter.
Ivory Coast opened its 1996/97 cocoa marketing season on October 24 but delayed an announcemement on guideline buyer and exporter marketing rates. "They have never been so late," said an exporter.
Almost no cocoa trucking activity was visible at Abidjan on Friday. But large consignments of cocoa can be seen in warehouses and total port stocks are now estimated by shippers to be over 100,000 tonnes.
One banker financing some large exporters said many of their clients had no cocoa in port and the owner of the stocks was not clear. A large shipment to Amsterdam from Ivory Coast is expected within two weeks.
"Port stocks will probably slip before cocoa arrivals pick up after licensing," said one exporter. "Activity will probably pick up after November 15 when licence finances have been sorted out."
Exporters are expecting total arrivals for November of between 150,000 and 180,000 tonnes, rising to a December peak before a slow January tail-off. Exporters' total year crop estimates pivot around 900,000 tonnes.
Shipping companies expected licences to be out by Friday but are now waiting for an announcement next week.  "Many companies we deal with were saying licences would be out by the weekend but we have heard nothing about rates," said one source.
Licences are usually announced by the Ministry of Agriculture but no date has been set.
Caistab sources said this week a list of approved cocoa exporters had been drawn up by Wednesday but still had to be signed by the Minister of Commerce. The list had been expected by exporters on Wednesday.
Caistab president Yves-Marie Koissy is still in the U.S, but could return next week, said Caistab sources.
Exporters have rejected Caistab requests to them to argue for a cut in freight rates. They have also rejected a government plan to make exporters responsible for collecting buyers' unpaid income taxes.
"The Caistab is also trying to get exporters to pull down freight rates but they (exporters) are refusing to approach shipping lines," said another port source.
"Exporters want the rates set the same, so their rebate from the Caistab is not cut," the source added.
Pod counters recently up country said large quantities of cocoa were seen along roadsides and moving through warehouses.
"November arrivals will be strong as soon as the uncertainty is over," said one.
--Abidjan Newsroom +225 21 90 90
Czech National Bank (CNB) Governor Josef Tosovsky said on Friday that there was no need to hurry the of the state's stake in the country's largest commercial bank, Komercni Banka a.s..
He said when the time comes to sell the stake of some 49 percent it could be offered to several investors.
"There is not a need to hurry with (Komercni's) privatisation. A strategic partner is not necessary, so it is possible to propose to sell the state stake to more investors," Tosovsky said after a closed meeting of the parliament's banking commission.
But he added the central bank does not yet have a strong consensus on what to do with the stake.
"We haven't an absolutely firm opinion on this, it's possible (to sell) to both domestic and foreign investors."
The central bank has submitted a broad plan to privatise shares in the so-called "Big Four" banks which calls for the merger of trade bank  Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s. with Ceska Sporitlena a.s., the largest savings bank.
The CNB has said it would prefer to wait several years before privatising the state shares after the newly-merged bank is established to analyse effects of the merger.
"CSOB is ready for quite a fast privatisation, but when considered in a wider scope, we (the CNB) think that a merger with Ceska Sporitelna would be more suitable," Tosovsky said.
"If this proposal is accepted, privatisation would be... delayed, beause there must be the merger first."
The Czech cabinet must approve any privatisation of shares in the Big Four banks, and this week they asked the central bank for more concrete details on the central bank's plan.
"(A merger of CSOB and Sporitelna) has a number of rational and economic reasons," Tosovsky said without elaborating.
The governor rejected comments by CSOB and Sporitelna executives who reacted coolly to the merger plan.
"The managements are not the owners... it's logical the managements have their own interests and preferences, but the owner is the (state National Property Fund)," he said.
He said Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus had requested details to the central bank's plan for a quick sale of the state's 31.5 percent of Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. to a strategic foreign partner.
"The prime minister proposed (for the CNB) to make concrete some procedings concerning mostly IPB so that the privatisation can start as soon as possible," Tosovsky said.
IPB executives have confirmed that both Japan's Nomura and Dutch ING Bank NV have shown an interest in acquiring shares in IPB.
Klaus has said he is not in favour of the CSOB/Sporitelna merger, equating it with melding Prague's two top soccer teams Sparta and Slavia, an idea unthinkable for most Czechs.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The Czech government faces one of its most difficult decisions in choosing how to diversify natural gas supplies now coming solely from Russia, Industry and Trade Minister Vladimir Dlouhy said on Thursday.
"It is going to be one of the toughest decisions of this cabinet," ministry spokesman Miroslav Konvalina quoted Dlouhy as telling Anneke van Dok-van Weele, the visiting Dutch Minister of Foreign Trade.
Dlouhy has said he would submit four options for securing gas supplies in the future, but declined to detail them before the material is debated by the ministers. He has said that Russia would remain the dominant supplier.
But a source at his ministry, who asked not to be named, confirmed on Thursday a story in the Czech weekly Tyden which listed the four options:
* Purchasing all natural gas from Gazprom, using two different shipping routes, with a long-term agreement until 2,016, with price guarantees until 1998.
* Purchasing some Russian gas indirectly through Dutch company Nederlandse Gasunie NV, and Germany' Wintershall, a subsidiary of BASF.
Gasunie would start supplies in 1998, delivering up to two billion cubic metres in 2005, with agreement lasting until 2014. In case of fallout of Russian supplies, it would deliver its own natural gas through Wingas, a joint venture of Wintershall (65 percent) and Gazprom (35 percent).
Wintershall offers a similar scheme, with deliveries starting on January 1 next year, rising to one billion cubic metres in 2000, under a deal until 2016.
Negotiations with these firms are in the stage of initiating an supply contract.
* Finalising and maintaining the agreement for Norwegian gas, which has already been preliminarily approved this year, until 2017.
* A limited purchase from U.S.-based Mobil Europe Gas Inc., Germany's Brigitta Erdgas und Erdoel (BEB), and British Gas plc.
"But we do not want to connect this decision with political issues like our relations with the European Union or NATO."
The Czechs have ended their dependance on Russian crude oil by building a new pipeline to Germany, but are still completely dependant on supplies provided by Russia's Gazprom.
The senior official from Dlouhy's ministry told Reuters that the issue would most probably be debated by the council of ministers, which should come up with a recommendation to the full cabinet, "in the coming days, probably next week".
Government representatives have held talks on limited deliveries from Norway, which according to a preliminary agreement should start in January next year.
The Czechs consume around eight to nine billion cubic metres of natural gas per year, but volume is expected to rise to some 12-13 billion cubic metres by the turn of the century.
The preliminary agreement, which was initiated by Czech state-owned importer Transgas with Norway's GFU gas negotiating alliance in summer, expects eventual growing of the potential supplies to three billion cubic metres per year in 2002.
Konvalina said Dlouhy told Minister van Dok-van Weele that one option included involvement of Dutch companies in future supplies, and the minister said her country could provide "confidence and reliablity guarantees" for the supplies.
The spokesman, who declined direct comment on the four options presented to the government, said Dlouhy told the Dutch minister the Czech "priority is to diversify, but we will keep a balanced relations with the Russian side at the same time".
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Australian-based metals recycler Simsmetal Ltd on Friday painted a bleak picture for world scrap metal prices over the year ahead and said this meant the group's net profit for 1996/97 would be lower than in 1995/96.
But it said it remained confident it could take advantage of a recovery in world markets when it came and was currently in talks to buy a large British scrap metal business.
Simsmetal managing director John Crabb told the annual meeting that scrap prices had softened dramatically to their lowest levels in almost four years over the last two months.  
"Until there is an improvement in the major economies of Europe and Asia and the resulting increase in demand for metals, we expect trading conditions to remain very difficult with volumes, margins and earnings below our expectations," Crabb said.
He later told reporters profits for the year to June 30, 1997 would be below the A$46.7 million posted in 1995/96 -- a result that was itself 23 percent down on a year ago.
"It will be lower for the full year," Crabb said.  
Simsmetal had previously only said it saw difficult conditions prevalent in the first quarter of 1996/97 continuing into the second quarter, with second quarter profits falling.
In mid-October, Simsmetal announced its net profit for the first quarter of 1996/97 fell 34 percent to A$8.28 million.
Crabb said the world construction markets which used the long steel produced by electric furnaces supplied by Simsmetal remained weak and had no immediate prospect of improvement.
"Our view is that we should start to see some improvement (in ferrous metals prices) towards the end of calendar 1997, we may see it in the middle (of calendar 1997)," he said.  
"We can't see too much on the horizon at this time," he said.
Crabb also said Simsmetal was in talks to buy a large British business in the same area as Simsmetal, but he said he could not give any more details as he was bound by confidentiality agreements.
"It's in the U.K. For us it will be quite large," he said.
"We still need to balance our portfolio there, so that we've got a good broad coverage," he said.
"We'll use either some cash or our unusued borrowing lines. We've got no problems funding it."  
He said Simsmetal had ended the first quarter with about A$62 million cash on hand.
"I guess we'd only be using 55-60 percent of our borrowing capacity at the moment."
Simsmetal had total non-current borrowings of A$54.11 million as at June 30, 1996, giving a total warchest for possible acquisitions of about A$115 million.
Earlier in the annual meeting, Crabb said that any closure of the Broken Hill Pty Co Pty Ltd's Newcastle steel plant would not affect Simsmetals operations.  
Crabb said Simsmetal supplies most of its products to BHP's Sydney mini-mill and its Port Kembla plant, south of Sydney.
"Maybe it will make life easier for us because we will be able to buy more scrap," Crabb said, responding to a shareholders question.
Simsmetal's shares were up one cent at A$6.89 at 2.40 p.m. (0340 GMT).
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Building materials, aluminium and sugar group CSR Ltd is expected to report on Monday a net profit before abnormals of between A$146 million and A$160 million for the six months to September 30, analysts said on Friday.
On October 14, CSR said that its 1996/97 first half profit was likely to be 20 percent lower, with the full year down by the same amount if the first half trend continued.  
Analysts have cut their 1996/97 year profit estimates for CSR after last month's profit warning. Annual forecasts now range between A$250 million to A$272 million, compared with around the A$300 million level before the warning.
CSR reported a nine percent fall in net profit before abnormals of A$193.4 million in the 1995/96 first half.
Sean Cooney, a building materials analyst at ANZ Securities, forecast CSR to report a first half pre-abnormals net profit of A$156.6 million. Cooney forecast CSR to report an annual net profit before abnornals of between A$255-A$260 million.  
Greg Burns at BZW Australia forecast A$160 million for the half and A$260 million for the year to March 31, 1997.
Mark Cotton, building materials analyst at Prudential Bache Securities, forecast CSR to report a pre-abnormal net profit of A$160 million for the half and A$272 million for the year.
Michael Brown at McIntosh Securities forecast a net profit before abnormals of A$146 million for the half and around A$250 million for the year. Brown has a hold recommendation on CSR.  
ABN AMRO Hoare Govett's building materials analyst Fabian Babich forecast CSR to report a pre-abnornmal net profit between A$145 million and A$150 million for the half and about A$260 million for the year.
Analysts said the second half for the Sydney-based group was cyclically lower than the first half, as the Australian housing industry slows over December and January for the holiday season. CSR said last month intense price competition and low volumes continued in the Australian building products market were some of the main reasons for the expected profit fall.  
It said in the United States its operation was achieving record profits, but the aluminium group which was a strong performer last year would achieve lower earnings in 1996/97 due to falling metal prices.
It also said sugar profits for the year would be close to that achieved last year despite lower raw sugar prices.
CSR reported a net profit after abnormals of A$330.8 million in 1995/96, compared with A$392.60 million in 1994/95.  
Analysts are forecasting CSR's profit to start to turnaround in the 1997/98 year, on the back of an improving domestic housing market in calendar 1997. The local housing market has been in the doldrums since the end of 1994.
BZW's Burns said the housing market was still on for a turnaround in 1997. "Building approvals seem to be improving from where they were, housing affordability has improved immeasurably, all we need now is a bit of confidence,"
At 11.15 a.m. (0015 GMT), CSR shares were a cent down at A$4.30. They have traded between A$4.06 and A$4.72 this year.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Some of the brightest stars of Chinese pop put on a glittering show in Beijing on Friday, but officials kept politically-suspect rock heroes off the playlist, sources close to the concert said.
A capacity audience of around 18,000 flocked to the Capital Gymnasium to see a showcase event featuring dozens of performers from China's fledgling popular music industry.
State media said the event, the first leg of a double concert in the capital, was intended to celebrate the growth of the pop music industry since it was banned as capitalist poison during the chaos of the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.
The concerts were intended to capture the flavour of the past decade of Chinese pop, but organisers had been ordered to cut some of the nation's biggest and most influential rock and roll stars from the playlist, sources close to the event said.
The Friday 'A' concert, to be followed by a 'B' performance on Saturday, was a showcase mainly for sugary pop songs largely focused on themes of love and friendship --  a staple diet for state-run music broadcasters.
Harder-edged music -- unpopular among communist authorities keen to promote safe socialist loyalties -- was conspiciously absent.
Beijing has repeatedly ordered campaigns to boost socialist morality weakened in the rush to a market economy, prompting tighter official controls on all forms of cultural activity.
Cui Jian, widely regarded as the father of Chinese rock music, was not scheduled to attend either concert, organisers said.
Sources close to the event said Cui, whose music is a blend of Western rock, Chinese instruments and politically-sensitive lyrics, had originally been intended to play a major part in the event but had been barred by China's musical mandarins.
The classically-trained performer's music is still hugely popular among listeners, but ideologically-suspect anthems such as "Nothing to My Name' that caught the mood of a generation in the late 1980s are seldom permitted on state-controlled media.
"Cui's basically been banned from performing in Beijing since 1993," said a promoter close to the event who declined to be named. "The higher-ups told the organisers...he couldn't take part."
Heavy rock group Hei Bao, or Black Panther, which has won the hearts of many younger Chinese despite official disapproval, would also be absent, said concert promoter and radio presenter Zhang Shurong.
Zhang said he had not been told of any ban against Cui or Hei Bao, who have long been forced to seek venues far from the Chinese capital.
Hei Bao had not been banned but were considered unsuitable because they could make the audience too excited, he said, adding the stars still on the playlist were attraction enough.
"They are all very important, all people who can play epoch-making roles in the circle of Chinese singers," he said.
Asiana Airlines is to take delivery of a third new Boeing 747-400 freighter next month to replace a wet leased DC-10 cargo aircraft on the Seoul to New York route, the airline's cargo marketing and sales director, T.S. Kang said.
The South Korean carrier uses two DC-10 freighters wet leased from U.S. operators Gemini Air Cargo and World Airways for its six flights per week to New York.
The World Airways freighter is to be returned and Gemini's retained until the end of next year to continue to fly three times a week to New York with the new Boeing flying the other three, Kang told Reuters in a telephone interview from Seoul.
The 747-400 will offer Asiana extra cargo carrying capacity as it carries more than 100 tonnes compared to around 65 tonnes for the DC-10.
"The new 747 which is about to be delivered will replace one of the DC-10s which is being returned. One 747 equals two DC-10 flights and is a welcome addition to our fleet," Kang said
Asiana has two 747-400 and one 767 freighter and has  plans to expand its cargo aircraft fleet to 10 by 2005.
Kang said Gemini has now received permission from Korea's Ministry of Transportation and Construction to fly into Korea under its own name. Gemini specialises in offering its converted aircraft to established airlines on wet lease contracts known as ACMI - aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
All four Hanson companies - due to be spun off as part of the demerger process - had received takeover approaches for part or all of the units in the chemicals, tobacco, building and energy sectors.
William Landuyt, chairman and chief executive of Millennium Chemicals and a Hanson group board member, told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday "We've had interest for every business in Hanson." He said the "expressions of interest" included possible offers for whole divisions as well as individual companies within each of the four divisions to be floated separately.  
Landuyt, who will head up the U.S. chemicals giant Millennium which had 1995 sales of more than two billion stg and 588 million stg in operating profit, told Reuters his own empire had received approaches for all three of its units - Quantum, SCM and Glidco.
But he said that the board had decided against pursuing any of the approaches.
Landuyt also defended Millennium's decision to incorporate a so-called "poison pill" clause to protect it from a hostile takeover. He said it was necessary to prevent a predator buying up shares on the cheap and launching an undervalued bid.  
"We do expect selling pressure (for Millennium shares) for at least the first six months," said Landuyt who predicted selling pressure from UK investors.
"We don't want a temporary drop in the shareprice to allow someone to get a commanding position and launch a bid which does not offer full value."
He said the poison-pill arrangement, which under law in the U.S. state of Delaware means that a company gaining a 15 percent stake in Millennium would see those shares become worthless. They would carry no vote or liquidation value unless the board had been approached first.  
However, the poison pill clause ends after one year, said the chemicals company chief, freeing the way for a possible bid.
He said if a full-value bid was launched before then, the board would be under a duty to examine it.
-- London newsroom +44 171 5427717
America Online Inc., the world's largest online service, Thursday reported a first quarter net loss of $353.7 million due to its widely-expected restructuring charges to change its accounting practices.
The Dulles, Va.-based company said its loss, of $3.80 a share, in the first quarter ended Sept. 30, included a write-off of $385.2 million in marketing costs it had originally planned to defer for up to two years.
The company announced its write-off plans last week when it also unveiled a flat-rate pricing plan of $19.95 a month, and a corporate realignment into three business units. Wall Street has largely applauded the changes in its accounting, because some investors said the practice inflated earnings.
AOL also said its total revenues jumped 77 percent in the quarter, including a boost from advertisers and electronic commerce. Revenues climbed to $349.9 million from $197.9 million a year ago.
AOL said its other revenues, from sources such as advertising and electronic commerce, rose to a record of $38.8 million, roughly 24 percent above the June quarter levels.
AOL said eight advertisers have committed to spend $1 million or more this fiscal year, as it moves to seek more revenues beyond its base subscriber fees, which still make up the lion's share of its revenues.
Before the big accounting charge, AOL said it earned $19 million, or 17 cents a share, exactly in line with the mean estimate on First Call, which compiles analysts' estimates.
Revenues fell slightly short of some expectations because of the one-day outage of its service in August, analysts said.
Abhishek Gami, an analyst with Nesbitt Burns Securities, estimates the almost 19-hour outage on Aug. 7 cost AOL about $6.5 million in lost revenues and to pay subscriber credits.
However, AOL said its customer retention rate improved as the quarter progressed, reaching its best levels in September since mid-1995. Customer churn rate, or the drop-off in new customers, has been an issue at AOL, particularly this summer when subscriber growth slowed.
AOL also said it saw strong subscriber growth following the September launch of its new marketing campaigns. It added 400,000 new subscribers in the first quarter.
With the addition of nearly 275,000 new members in October, AOL said its total subscriber count reached 6.9 million worldwide. Analysts said 35,000 of those subscribers were from its online service in England, France and Germany.
AOL also said average hourly usage improved to 6.95 hours per member in the recent period, and in October, hit its highest level in the company's history.
"In the spring we indicated that member growth would slow in the summer, but would likely pick back up in the fall as we rolled out our 3.0 software and increased our marketing expenditures," said AOL CEO Steve Case, in a statement. "We're pleased to report that growth has indeed accelerated, and now....we believe we are poised for continued strong growth."
Last week, AOL said it would write off $385 million in the September quarter to account for the balance of its hefty subscriber acquisition costs, such as its mass mailing of floppy disks. It had been deferring certain marketing costs and amortizing some costs over a period of 24 months.
Analysts said they are now waiting to see how the new flat-rate pricing policy will effect the company's profit margins, which are expected to decline from the plan. The heavier users of AOL will now simply pay an all-you-can-eat rate of $19.95 instead of the heavier bills they incurred.
Th company acknowledged in a statement that its new pricing plan will result in lower-margins but that it is also expecting benefits from new revenue sources in the future, as it seeks to generate new higher-growth revenue streams.
"These are all issues that will clear up over time," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Co. analyst. "Clearly the response to the new pricing plan has been very positive," Kiggen added, referring to the positive feedback AOL has received from customers. Analysts said AOL still expects to lose money in its second quarter ending Dec. 31, which will be the first period that the company expenses its quarterly marketing costs.
AOL's stock fell 50 cents to $24.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The nation's distillers Thursday formally reversed their 48-year-old voluntary ban on broadcast advertising of liquor, saying whiskey and gin should be treated just like beer and wine.
The announcement -- coming two days after the presidential election and just ahead of the holiday season -- affirms the decision by Seagram Co. Ltd. in June to begin airing TV ads for its Royal Crown and Chivas Regal whiskey.
That ad campaign has unleashed criticism from lawmakers, regulators and President Clinton. And the latest decision is sure to rachet up the debate.
"For decades, beer and wine have been advertised on television and radio while the distilled spirits industry has upheld its own voluntary ban," said Fred Meister, president of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States (DISCUS).
"The absence of spirits from television and radio has contributed to the mistaken perception that spirits are somehow 'harder' or worse than beer or wine and thus deserving of harsher social, political and legal treatment."
The reversal of the voluntary ban was adopted in DISCUS's "code of good practice."
The announcement drew an immediate rebuke from the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, who has made it clear he is opposed to the practice and has raised the specter of new rules that would bar such advertising.
"This decision is disappointing for parents, and dangerous for our kids," said FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, whose agency has begun a probe of the ad campaign.
Consumer advocates also objected. "Today's decision by DISCUS to dump its voluntary ban marks the beginning of an open liquor-marketing season on America's children and teens," said George Hacker of the Center for Science in the Public Interest.
He urged President Clinton to renew his appeal to distillers to return to the voluntary ban, and he called on the Federal Trade Commission to assist the FCC in its probe.
In Congress, Rep. Joseph Kennedy has offered legislation to make it illegal to advertise hard liquor on radio or TV.
Broadcasters, meanwhile, criticized the distillers' decision but stopped short of refusing to run liquor ads.
The National Association of Broadcasters advocated to continue leaving the decision on whether to air the ads to individual TV and radio stations.
"We believe this process has served American consumers well, since individual stations make and will continue to make judgments every day on what is most appropriate for their local audiences," said NAB President Edward Fritts.
Hewlett-Packard Co. is expected to extend its role as a leading supplier of computer printers next week by unveiling the first of a family of devices designed to allow people to bypass the copy machine.
Industry sources familiar with details of the new models said they can be used instead of a copier to make multiple printouts of a document, posing a threaten to copy machine makers such as Xerox Corp. and Canon Inc.
"This is the first direct attack at the copier market," said one of the sources, who declined to be identified. "This is the announcement that is going to make Xerox begin to sweat."
Another of the sources said the initial adaption of the technology will likely be targeted for relatively modest printing jobs, three or four copies of a document, for example, rather than for dozens of hundred-page documents.
A spokesman for Hewlett-Packard was not immediately available for comment on the new product, which one of the sources said could be unveiled as early as Monday.
The new "Mopier" machine, as Hewlett-Packard has dubbed it internally, is expected to be based on the LaserJet 5Si family and to come with a stapler, a multiple-slot stacker and secure, password-protected "mailboxes" into which printouts of confidential documents can be placed.
In a related announcement Wednesday, Hewlett-Packard said it planned to triple production of toner cartridges used in its LaserJet 5Si family of network printers "to alleviate a temporary shortage of the cartridges in the United States."
Analysts said the move may have been partly motivated by the company's new multiple copy initiative, as cartridges for printers are an extremely profitable area of HP's printer strategy, and will be needed to supply the new machines.
In fact, Hewlett-Packard said Wednesday its own research shows that pages formerly duplicated on copiers are increasingly being printed on HP printers already, resulting in a greater demand for the cartridges.
The mopier can be expected to have similar performance to the LaserJet 5Si printers, which can print 24 pages a minute and cycle up to 100,000 pages a month, the sources said.
"With these new methods of business printing, HP estimates that customers are printing about 24 percent more pages a month than with previous printers in the same class," said Doug Johnson, marketing manager of HP's LaserJet Supplies Operation, in a statement.
Computer Reseller News in September reported that the new HP "mopier" would be priced somewhere above $5,000.
The Czech consumer price index rose 0.5 percent in October putting year-on-year inflation at 8.7 percent, down from 8.9 percent in September, the Czech Statistical Bureau said on Friday.
The moving 12-month average of inflation remained unchanged at 8.7 percent in October. The figures were most influenced by a full percentage point rise in food, drinks and tobacco prices during the month and a 1.2 percent rise in clothing prices.
Analysts said the overall result was in line with expectations or even a bit lower, as the second consecutive month of slowing in the year-on-year figure convinced some that the year-end rate would end below nine percent.
"This (October's inflation result) is slightly better than expected, but not a big surprise," said Vladimir Kreidl, analyst at Patria Finance said.
"Our forecast in unchanged at nine percent for average inflation (at the end of 1996), but 8.8 percent seems to be achievable," he said.
Kreidl added that October's result was aided more by a strong Czech crown keeping import prices in check and relatively slow growth in industrial producer prices which have been rising at a roughly four percent annual rate.
Industry and Trade Minister Vladimir Dlouhy told a news conference the result was expectated and "for the whole year, I would like to see (average inflation) at below 8.7 percent."
The government had forecast average inflation to slow a full percentage point in 1996 to 8.0 percent, but a surge in domestic demand kept prices stubbornly over nine percent in the first half of the year.
The Czechs have been encouraged by the Organisation for Economic Coopoeration and Development (OECD), the group of the most industrialised countries to which the Czechs now have membership, to do more to stem inflation.
"From the perspective of an OECD member, our inflation is high ...our economic policy has to lead to a lowering inflation suggested by OECD and the Maastricht treaty," Dlouhy said.
The Czech National Bank (CNB) in June tightened monetary policy by raising its key interest rates and expanding minimum reserve requirements to dampen domestic demand.
The central bank said last week the moves served to pull its key M2 measure of money supply growth at the end of August to the low end of its 13-17 percent 1996 target at 13.2 percent, from over 20 percent earlier this year.
But Kreidl said the effects of the money supply tightening should not be evident until well into 1997, and he did not expect the CNB to ease credit rates at least until then.
-- John Mastrini, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech National Bank (CNB) Governor Josef Tosovsky said on Friday that there was no need to hurry the privatisation of shares in the largest commercial bank, Komercni Banka a.s. .
He said when the time comes to sell the state's roughly 49 percent in Komercni, it is possible the stake could be divided for sale to several investors.
"There is not a need to hurry with (Komercni's) privatisation. A strategic partner is not necessary, so it is possible to propose to sell the state stake to more investors," Tosovsky said after a closed meeting of the parliament's banking commission.
But he added the central bank does not yet have a strong concensus on what to do with Komercni's shares.
"We haven't an absolutely firm opinion on this, it's possible (to sell) to both domestic and foreign investors."
The central bank has submitted a broad plan to privatise shares in the so-called "Big Four" banks which calls for the merger of trade bank Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s. with Ceska Sporitlena a.s. , the largest savings bank.
The CNB has said it would prefer to wait several years before privatising the state shares after the newly-merged bank is established to analyse effects of the merger.
"CSOB is ready for quite a fast privatisation, but when considered in a wider scope, we (the CNB) think that a merger with Ceska Sporitelna would be more suitable," Tosovsky said.
"If this proposal is accepted, privatisation would be... delayed, beause there must be the merger first."
The Czech cabinet must approve any privatisation of shares in the Big Four banks, and this week they asked the central bank for more concrete details on the central bank's plan.
"(A merger of CSOB and Sporitelna) has a number of rational and economic reasons," Tosovsky said without elaborating.
The governor rejected comments by CSOB and Sporitelna executives who reacted coolly to the merger plan.
"The managements are not the owners... it's logical the managements have their own interests and preferences, but the owner is the (state National Property Fund)," he said.
He said Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus had requested details to the central bank's plan for a quick sale of the state's 31.5 percent of Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. to a strategic foreign partner.
"The prime minister proposed (for the CNB) to make concrete some procedings concerning mostly IPB so that the privatisation can start as soon as possible," Tosovsky said.
IPB executives have confirmed that both Japan's Normura and Dutch ING Bank NV have shown an interest in acquiring shares in IPB.
Klaus has said he is not in favour of the CSOB/Sporitelna merger, equating it with melding Prague's two top soccer teams Sparta and Slavia, an idea unthinkable for most Czechs.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Shares in Anglo-Dutch consumer group Unilever Plc rose sharply on Friday after the group posted a better-than-expected five percent rise in third quarter profits.
"I gritted myself for something rather unpleasant and its turned out very well," said David Lang, an analyst at Henderson Crosthwaite.
The shares jumped 42-1/2p in early London trade to 1,317-1/2p after profits rose to 826 million pounds ($1.36 billion) for the quarter. The results beat analysts' forecasts which ranged from 760 million pounds to 820 million.
"I think there is quite a lot of momentum in Unilever and that is before the benefits of management reorganisation which began in September," said Lang.
Before an exceptional charge of 32 million pounds, mostly to reshape its newly acquired industrial cleaning business Diversey, pretax profits rose six percent to 918 million.
"The total charges were clearly lower than we expected," said Richard Newboult, an analyst at Lehman Brothers who forecast a total restructuring charge of 74 million with about half of that related to Diversey.
Diversey, acquired in January from Canadian brewer Molson for 360 million pounds, was merged with Lever Industrial in October to form a combined business with annual turnover of 1.15 billion and a workforce of 13,000 in 60 countries.
Unilever owns a range of household brands including washing detergent OMO, Brooke Bond tea, Ponds cosmetic cream and several ice-cream products.
"Although poor weather had a negative effect on icecream sales, other parts of the business in Europe did well," said Unilever press officer Mike Haines.
Analysts and stockmarket dealers agreed. Despite the impact of a dull summer on ice-cream sales and profits, Unilever still managed to improve its profit by 13 million pounds to 502 million in the three month period from improved profits in detergents, frozen foods and personal products.
"The real strength came from the emerging markets of Latin America and Asia Pacific and the strong underlying performance in North America," added Haines.
The Asia-Pacific region turned in a 20 million pounds increase in profits to 108 million in the third quarter, Latin America was up 14 million pounds at 79 million, while Africa and the Middle East showed a nine million rise to 56 million pounds, reflecting changes made by the group to its Nigerian business.
($1=.6093 Pound)
China announced on Saturday a massive restructuring of one of its biggest conglomerates after reportedly meting out a suspended death sentence to the son of the former company chairman, one of the country's ruling elite.
State media announced the restructuring of Capital Iron, or Shougang, on Saturday but made no mention of the suspended death sentence handed down to Zhou Beifang, the former head of two of the steel giant's Hong Kong-listed affiliates.
A Beijing court gave Zhou the suspended death sentence for corruption as part of China's highly-publicised anti-graft campaign launched last year, a Chinese source said on Saturday.
The sentence was the heaviest handed down in recent years to one of China's so-called "princelings", the popular sobriquet applied to the children of the ruling party elite, who enjoy wide influence.
Shougang, one of China's biggest conglomerates, was thrust into the limelight after Zhou's detention in February 1995.
The arrest of a man symbolising Beijing's efforts to wield capitalist influence while retaining a socialist veneer underlined the vulnerability of that system to nepotism and abuse.
Zhou Beifang's father, Zhou Guanwu, 78, resigned as chairman and Communist Party secretary of Shougang in February 1995, citing old age following his son's detention.
The Zhous have close ties to the family of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
Last month, prosecutors filed charges of corruption against 30 people, including Zhou Beifang and two former officials of the Beijing city government. No other details of the case were available.
Chinese courts frequently impose the death penalty in major corruption cases. Suspended death sentences are often commuted to life imprisonment after two years.
Court officials could not be reached for comment on the sentencing.
The China Daily said the restructuring of Shougang draws a clear line between the property rights, responsibility and management of the parent company and subsidiary.
In the past, a large percentage of the parent company's profits went to branch companies, many of which are running in the red, the newspaper said.
Shougang's parent company would gradually cut off financial subsidies to subsidiaries which would be forced to sink or swim in the market economy as part of the restructuring programme.
"We will provide financial support for our subsidiaries for a few years, helping them in investment, finance and discharge of their debts based on an appraisal of their fixed assets," Bi Qun, Communist Party secretary of Shougang, told the newspaper.
"Once that is done the subsidiary companies will develop strategies to stop losing money and begin to make profits," Bi was quoted as saying.
The number of employees of the parent company would be gradually slashed to 58,000, or one-fourth of the group's total, the Xinhua news agency said. It gave no timetable.
The group's 27 subsidiaries would employ 176,000 people.
The group registered 1.653 billion yuan ($199 million) in pre-tax profits in the first 10 months of 1996, Xinhua said. It gave no comparative figures.
Corruption was virtually eliminated in the years after the communists came to power in 1949, but has staged a comeback along with economic reforms in the past 17 years.
Communist Party chief and state president Jiang Zemin has declared war on corruption, warning that the scourge was a virus that threatened the party.
Raising the stakes in the escalating battle for Conrail Inc., Norfolk Southern Corp. on Friday sweetened its hostile bid for the railroad to $10 billion in cash.
Norfolk Southern's original offer of $9.1 billion was already higher than a proposed $8.5 billion transaction planned between Conrail and CSX Corp., but the new bid of $110 per share further widened the gap.
"Our increased offer demonstrates our total commitment to this combination," Norfolk Southern Chairman David Goode said in a statement.
Philadelphia-based Conrail said it would review the new offer, but noted that it previously had determined the union with CSX was a better fit.
On Wednesday, Richmond, Va.-based CSX and Conrail revised the terms of their planned cash and stock transaction to give shareholders more cash. The Conrail-CSX union values Conrail shares at about $93.
Shares of Conrail jumped $3.375 to $96.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Wall Street earlier this week had speculated that Norfolk Southern would raise its bid to as much as $110 per share in the hope of igniting unrest with Conrail shareholders, some of whom already have expressed dissatisfaction with the CSX deal.
Industry sources also said Conrail was unlikely to be swayed from its planned merger with CSX.
Instead, they said the outcome of the bidding war was increasingly likely to be decided by Conrail's shareholders, who will ultimately determine if the railroad should strike the $8.5 billion deal with CSX when there is a $10 billion offer on the table.
"Nothing has changed. I think a lot will depend on what happens with the shareholder vote," said Jeff Medford of William Blair &amp; Co.
Shareholders are considered key to the Conrail-CSX transaction because Pennsylvania corporate law prohibits CSX from buying more than 20 percent of Conrail shares in a tender offer without their approval. CSX is seeking to acquire 40 percent of Conrail shares in a cash tender offer, with the remaining 60 percent to be exchanged for stock.
A shareholder meeting is scheduled for mid-December.
Takeover experts, who have been among the most vocal opponents of the Conrail-CSX deal, said that Norfolk Southern would further strengthen its position by aggressively urging Conrail shareholders to defeat the CSX transaction.
"It's got to be like Bob Dole's marathon, but with a more successful conclusion," said one, referring to the 96-hour campaign blitz launched by the losing U.S. presidential candidate in the days before this week's election.
Goode declined to be specific about Norfolk Southern's plans to woo Conrail shareholders.
"The numbers in our bid speak for themselves. It should be readily apparent that it's a superior offer. We're willing to talk to all of the constituencies involved, including shareholders and others who are interested in this and we are doing that," he said in a telephone interview.
Norfolk Southern said its latest offer of $110 a share was superior to CSX's bid because it was not contingent on regulatory approval and would provide immediate cash payment to Conrail shareholders.
Wall Street experts said Conrail and CSX, which already revised the terms of their transaction once, may feel pressured to again increase the portion of cash in their deal. However, most industry experts do not expect a revised bid to top the offer made by Norfolk Southern.
Kellogg Co. pledged again Friday to halt the erosion of its leading share of the $9 billion U.S. cereal market, but did not say what steps it planned to take.
The uncertainty over its future strategy made some investors nervous, and the stock was down 75 cents to $67 in afternoon trading after earlier falling as low as $65.50 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Earlier, company executives met with analysts to discuss its strategy to stop market share erosion, but offered few details.
"I was unimpressed with the company's presentation," BT Securities analyst John O'Neil said.
Kellogg pledged to stop any further crumbling of its U.S. market share, which has dropped to between 32.5 and 33 percent from what it considers to be a normal level of 35 percent, analysts said.
Kellogg, the leader in the U.S. ready-to-eat cereal market, said it will not tolerate any further market share erosion, a company spokesman said, but did not give any specifics.
"He (Chairman Arnold Langbo) indicated we remain committed to our long-term strategy of lower cereal prices and reducing inefficient price promotion spending, introducing strong new products, cutting costs," Kellogg spokesman Richard Lovell said. "That's the long-term way to go."
In the short term, analysts said, Kellogg is hoping that competitors cut back on their promotions, taking the pressure of its market share.
"The first thing they are going to do is hope the competition will cut back (on) promotions," O'Neil said. "Their initial strategy is a passive one."
But if competitors, such as rival General Mills Inc., do not cut back on discount coupons and other consumer enticements, analysts said Kellogg will have to respond in kind.
Kellogg officials were not immediately available.
"Their primary goal for 1997 is to get volume moving back up again," Schroder Wertheim analyst Robert Cummins said. "In regard to the U.S. cereal business, it is going to cost them some money to do that."
For now, Kellogg is not expected to increase its marketing push too much, given its pledge to report modestly better fourth quarter earnings compared with last year's results of $166.7 million, or 77 cents a share.
"They're very concerned about their credibility after the third quarter and are not likely to do anything that will prevent them from making that very modest increase in fourth quarter earnings," Smith Barney analyst David Rabinowitz said.
Third quarter earnings per share were down 20 percent, which Kellogg blamed on competition in the U.S. cereal market.
Kellogg has said 1996 earnings will be below the $761.6 million, or $3.48 a share, it earned in 1995. The consensus of analysts' estimates for 1996 is $3.07 a share, according to First Call.
Kellogg has said it expects earnings in first quarter of 1997 to be lower than in the first quarter of 1996. Earnings for all of 1997 are expected to be up by a low double-digit percentage from disappointing 1996 results.
Compounding Kellogg's problem is the slow growth in the U.S. cereal market, despite a round of price cuts by major companies earlier this year.
Kellogg said the U.S. cereal market overall grew by about 1.5 percent in the third quarter.
"The price cuts didn't work. It didn't help their (Kellogg's) volume or industry volume," Cummins said. "(That) backs up my contention that consumers who want to eat cereal are eating cereal, whether its $5 a box, which they complain about, or $2 a box, which they would prefer."
Outboard Marine Corp said it is only five percent finished with a radical restructuring that it expects will result in more charges against earnings in 1997 and possibly in 1998, the company said.
Restructuring is about "five percent complete as far as going down the road and getting the savings," said spokesman Stan Main. "That does not mean that we've taken only five percent of our restructuring charges ... There will likely be more charges during '97 and perhaps even into '98."
Shares in Outboard on Friday were off 1/4 to 15-3/4.  
The Waukegan, Ill.-based maker of boats and boat engines reported fourth-quarter profits Thursday that, excluding restructuring charges, beat Wall Street estimates.
Analysts cautioned, however, that a turnaround at Outboard remains a long-term project.
"They're going to be continuing this restructuring process in '97 and they're going to continue to have some more charges ... They describe the phase they're in now as the discovery process," said Lehman Brothers analyst Harriet Baldwin.
A key moment could come Tuesday when Outboard executives are scheduled to meet with analysts and investors in New York.  
Expected to be in attendance are the principals of Greenway Partners, an investment firm led by former Carl Icahn associates Alfred Kingsley and Gary Duberstein. Greenway bought an 8.5-percent stake in Outboard this summer.
Although the firm is known for activism, Greenway so far has not pressured Outboard to alter course, Main said. Nor has there been further communication between Greenway and company executives since initial discussions in August, he said.
Analysts speculated there could be fireworks next week or at the January 16 annual meeting of shareholders, who are said to be growing impatient for a cohesive recovery plan.  
A restructuring was set in motion this year by chief executive Harry Bowman, who came aboard in 1995, when the stock was trading in the low 20s. Bowman continues to deliberate over how to fix Outboard and key pieces remain to be put in place, analysts said.
The business is under evaluation from top to bottom, Main said. Once restructuring is complete, Outboard "certainly will be a marine products company," he said.  
"Longer term, we could get into products that would not be marine related. But our initial focus over the next two to three years is to fix the business that we're in and then perhaps look at other areas that might be less cyclical or seasonal," said Main, who is director of strategic planning.
Bowman has spoken of finding more stability for Outboard, which suffers more from boating's boom-bust cycles than rivals, such as Lake Forest, Ill.-based Brunswick Corp, which has diversified into bowling, fishing and camping gear.
Outboard sees opportunities to enter other markets -- such as motorcycles, snowmobiles and personal watercraft -- via its innovative FICHT fuel injection engine technology, Main said.
Spending on capital and tooling in fiscal 1996, ended September 30, fell to $52.7 million from $66.5 million the year before, but spending on FICHT is holding steady as the company converts more of its engine line to it, he said.
Sales of 150-hp FICHT engines to dealers will begin in December and consumers will see the engines in January. A promotional roll-out is underway.
The company plans to convert its entire outboard engine line above 20-hp to FICHT engines, which will cost 22 to 25 percent more than their traditional equivalents, Main said.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
U.S. cereal leader Kellogg Co is hoping its competitors cut back on their promotional efforts, but failing that it may be forced to increase costly marketing efforts next year.
"The first thing they are going to do is hope the competition will cut back (on) promotions," said BT Securities analyst John O'Neil, who attended a meeting between Kellogg and analysts on Friday.
"Their initial strategy is more of a passive one," he added.  
But if competitors such as rival General Mills Inc do not cut back on discount coupons and other consumer enticements, Kellogg will have to respond in kind, analysts said.
"Kellogg is resolved to rebuild their market share," Smith Barney analyst David Rabinowitz said.
Kellogg, the leader in the $9.0 billion U.S. ready-to-eat cereal market, has seen its market share slip to between 32.5 percent and 33 percent due to competitive pressure.
"They consider 35 percent to be normal," said Schroder Wertheim analyst Robert Cummins.  
Analysts who met with Kellogg said the company did not outline its market share strategy, except to say it does not intend to return to deep-discounts and giveaways.
"They say they will do what is necessary to regain their market share, but for now will avoid the deep discounts," SBC Warburg analyst Chris Jakubik said.
Kellogg officials were not immediately available for comment.
Still, analysts say the Battle Creek, Mich.-based firm, which earlier this year was forced to cut prices to respond to the competition, cannot sit and do nothing.  
"I think Kellogg is more likely to increase promotions (in 1997) and target promotional efforts behind new products," O'Neil added.
For now, Kellogg is not expected to increase its marketing push too much, given its pledge to report modestly better fourth quarter earnings compared to last year's $0.77 a share.
"They're very concerned about their credibility after the third quarter and are not likely to do anything that will prevent them from making that very modest increase in fourth quarter earnings," Rabinowitz said.
Third quarter earnings were down 20 percent, which Kellogg blamed on competitive pressures.
Compounding Kellogg's problem is the slow growth in the U.S. cereal market, despite a round of price cuts by major companies earlier this year. Kellogg said the market overall grew by about 1.5 percent in the third quarter.
"The price cuts didn't work. It didn't help their (Kellogg's) volume or industry volume," said Schroder Wertheim's Cummins. "(That) backs up my contention that consumers who want to eat cereal are eating cereal, whether its $5 a box, which they complain about, or $2 a box, which they would prefer."
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Diamond Multimedia Systems Inc plans this week to unveil a series of advances in its marketing of enhanced video and audio technologies.
On Monday, the company will launch a deal with Toshiba Corp's Toshiba America Information Systems unit to deliver what will be among the first DVD-ROM products to hit the retail market, Chief Executive Bill Schroeder said.
Diamond will also announce new proprietary 3-D audio software and plans for moving into the market for machines running Microsoft Corp's Windows NT system.  
On Tuesday, the San Jose, Calif. maker of multimedia accelerators, modems and adapters also plans to launch a new plug-and-play video conferencing product, including a color camera and a microphone, at an estimated retail price of $399.
Amid the flurry of introductions ahead of the annual Comdex computer industry trade show beginning November 17, Schroeder told Reuters in an interview the company is on track to increase revenues and margins in its current fourth quarter.
China gave U.S. President Bill Clinton a signal on Sunday that the election had not cleared away nagging trade disputes, saying it planned tit-for-tat curbs on American imports.
Beijing said it would suspend temporarily its imports of some U.S. textiles, farm goods and alcoholic drinks in retaliation for Washington's imposition of punitive charges on American purchases of Chinese textiles.
The announcement came only days after Clinton's re-election triumph and ahead of a planned visit to Beijing this month by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
Sino-U.S. relations have been strained over the last year by a range of issues from Taiwan to arms proliferation to trade and human rights.
China and the U.S. have said they saw an improvement in relations since the two sides narrowly averted a trade war over copyright piracy and exchanged diplomatic fire over Beijing's political rival, Taiwan, earlier this year.
Beijing said last week that it saw Clinton's re-election as a good opportunity for better ties in a "somewhat improved atmosphere".
The temporary import ban, which would take effect on December 10, was in retaliation for what China called severe violations by the U.S. of a bilateral textile accord.
"The decision was made in response to the U.S. unilateral cut of import quotas of Chinese textiles, which severely violated the bilateral textile agreement," the official Xinhua news agency said.
In September, Washington announced punitive charges against 1996 import quotas for Chinese textile goods, accusing China of using transshipments to avoid U.S. quota restrictions.
The action -- which was expected to cost China about $19 million -- marked the first time Washington had imposed so-called triple charges against repeated violations of a bilateral textile accord.
The U.S. move was made without full consultation and clear supporting evidence, Xinhua said.
Beijing accused Washington of imposing a series of barriers that had seriously affected Chinese textile export to the U.S. as well as China's ability to pay for American imports.
China said it had urged the U.S. to withdraw the penalties but its pleas had been ignored, leaving it no choice but to take action.
China's import suspension would also apply to U.S. fruits and animal husbandry products, though there was no indication of which specific items would be barred within the broad product categories.
The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation and the General Administration of Customs would have a detailed list ready before December 10, according to Xinhua.
China also said it opposed any attempt to impose the will of one side upon others in trade matters, and called on the U.S. to avoid such measures in future.
"Once again, we wish to urge the United States to handle trade disputes in the spirit of advancing bilateral trade, and refrain from taking any actions harmful to bilateral trade in the future," it said.
Two Chinese magazines are struggling for survival after being targeted in a crusade by China's propaganda tsars to cleanse the media of liberal influences, Chinese sources said.
"Focus" magazine in the southern boomtown of Shenzhen has suspended publication for two issues after a Hong Kong newspaper reported the magazine defied propaganda tsars and ran a cover story on the anniversary of the chaotic 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, the sources said.
The Propaganda Department of the Communist Party had frowned on any commemoration of the decade of turmoil unleashed by revolutionary leader Mao Zedong to purge political rivals and infuse the nation with renewed ideological vigour.
A writer for the magazine said the suspension was due to a Hong Kong newspaper report of the article's publication.
"Had it not been for the foreign report, the magazine would not have suffered this kind of setback," said the writers, peaking anonymously "This was a kind of punishment...by the party."
In a telephone interview, Li Mei, publisher of Focus, disputed this assessment, saying the suspension was linked to unrelated financial trouble.
Other Chinese sources said the problems at "Focus" stemmed from the Communist Party's clampdown on publications and authors who dare to break away from a stultifying diet of state-approved fare.
"If a publication takes a detour (from the party line), it will be suspended for restructuring. There will be no exceptions," one source quoted propaganda tsars as saying.
Propaganda tsars are also debating the fate of the Beijing-based magazine "Orient" for publishing a series of book reviews on the "Collected Works of Gu Zhun", sources said.
