When Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn Inc launched Caverject, an anti-impotence drug, it ordered the usual marketing programme and then, in line with a growing trend, it called Time magazine.
And Newsweek and Smithsonian and New Yorker and more than 50 other national publications and radio stations -- all of which are now engaged in a huge "consumer awareness" campaign about impotence, paid for by Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn.
Whether it is impotence, baldness, depression, schizophrenia, osteoporosis or allergies, U.S. consumers are being flooded with ads for health problems and often, in a departure from tradition, prescription drugs to cure them.
Spending on advertising on prescription drugs throughout the U.S. media topped $323 million in the first six months of 1996, compared to $356.8 million for the whole of 1995, according to Competitive Media Reporting, a market research firm.
"It certainly is a growing category for Time magazine and for news magazines in general," said Robert Pondiscio, spokesman for the Time Warner newsweekly.
Time broke new ground in the area this month with a 90-page special issue called "Frontiers of Medicine" almost fully underwritten by Britain's Glaxo Wellcome Plc, the largest drug manufacturer in the world.
The spread of direct-to-consumer prescription drug advertising marks a victory for drug companies, which fought for years with physicians and regulators opposed to it.
The American Medical Association, based here, still stands publicly against such advertising. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), after banning the adverts in the early 1980s, now allows them if they follow certain guidelines.
FDA rules explain why prescription drug advertisements sometimes identify a company and a drug but do not on other occasions.
For instance, Pfizer Inc is advertising its Zyrtec allergy drug in the main U.S. dailies. The ads show a picture of a smiling woman surrounded by wildflowers and weeds. Underneath is large-type text promoting the drug and off to one side is a 1,500-word "brief summary" in fine print about side-effects and dosages. The summary is required by the FDA because the ad mentions Pfizer's and the drug's names.
In contrast, one of Glaxo's many ads in the Time special issue is about how Olympic gold medalist Jackie Joyner-Kersee keeps her asthma under control with a "program" put together by Glaxo. A free telephone number is provided. Callers are automatically sent a complimentary "asthma control kit" from Glaxo.
No mention is made in the advertisement that Glaxo is a world leader in asthma medicines. Its Ventolin is an industry standard. Serevent was introduced a year ago and Flovent was just unveiled. Because none of these drugs is named in the ad, it does not have to include a brief summary of their attributes.
The FDA is talking with drug companies and broadcasters about how to handle radio and TV ads for prescription drugs. Some advertisements are broadcast, but so far remain much rarer than those in print.
These ads -- whether they name the drug or not -- are meant to raise consumers' awareness of new drugs and to reach doctors -- medicine's decision-makers -- through patients.
"The ads are effective in informing consumers of the availability of a drug. The action step is to suggest to the consumer that they consult their physician," said Dick Johnson, spokesman for Hoechst Marion Roussel, which is advertising its Allegra allergy medicine with pictures of a windsurfer skimming across an open field.
The ads seem to be working on the consumer.
In 1987, about 18 percent of U.S. patients initiated conversations with their physicians about advertised drugs. That figure was up to 51 percent in 1995, according to a study done by American Home Products Corp, which advertises Premarin for menopause and Effexor for depression.
"The ads create a more educated consumer and an educated consumer is more prepared to have an intelligent dialogue with the physician," said American Home spokeswoman Audrey Ashby.
Whether or not that dialogue leads doctors to write more prescriptions for advertised drugs, thereby boosting sales for the drug companies, is difficult to judge because the companies will not disclose such details.
No objective studies have determined if drug companies gain incremental revenues from advertising, but the companies' growing advertising budgets in themselves may be a sign of success.
"If these ads weren't working, why would they be doing them? Unless they were being forced to by competitors," said Stephen Scala, pharmaceuticals industry analyst with Cowen &amp; Co.
Advertising is a vital part of the over-the-counter drugs business, where the consumer -- not the doctor -- calls the shots. The kind of competitive pressures that drive over-the-counter markets may help explain the spread of advertising for prescription drugs, as well, Scala said.
But, he added, the role of consumers in a changing healthcare system are part of the answer, too.
"People are more knowledgable and aware and willing to learn about their treatments than they used to be," he said.
The introduction of new accounting methods for Japanese banks will not have an immediate impact on their earnings, but it should help boost derivatives trading in Japan, analysts and banking sources say.
Major banks are preparing for the new accounting methods for derivatives and securities trade, which will be introduced from the end of the 1997/98 fiscal year, although the types of financial instruments to be covered by the new methods have not been set.
But the sources said the use of mark-to-market accounting would help increase arbitrage deals in derivatives while also helping reduce potential volatility in swap rates.
"Following the introduction of mark-to-market accounting, we will be able to offer various hedge instruments to clients, and this will help increase business opportunities for us in the long term," a bank official said.
In mark-to-market accounting, unrealised gains or losses in the trading accounts must be included in the current income statement.  
Currently in Japan, financial products are basically appraised according to the cost of purchase, and realised gains or losses are posted in current income statements only when the positions are closed.
One analyst said the new accounting methods would not be used for interest rate swaps for long-term holdings.
"Big commercial and trust banks posted bigger operating profitS 1995/96 as they increased profits from interest rate swaps," she said.
Even if the big banks take speculative positions in interest rate swaps, the deals are not expected to be covered by the mark-to-market accounting methods as they are not considered as instruments for short-term capital gains, she said.
Naruaki Sonoda, a senior analyst at Nikko Research Centre, said mark-to-market accounting standards would be applied only to short-term trading and banks do not hold shares for that purpose despite their huge stock investments.
Also, unrealised profits or losses in short-term bond dealings are not big enough to influence bank earnings, he said.  
The Japanese parliament passed a special act in June allowing banks and brokerages to include gains or losses from derivatives and short-term securities trading in their income statements from the end of March 1998.
To use mark-to-market accounting methods, however, banks and brokerages must get permission from the Finance Ministry. Not all banks are expected to apply to use the new methods.
A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has been working out details of which securities and derivatives deals will be covered by the new accounting methods.
Deciding which deals go into the trading account will be based on the initial purpose -- whether the deal was aimed at long-term holding or short-term trading, said Takashi Kinoshita, deputy general manager at Fuji Bank's capital markets trading division.
"We are trying to separate trading accounts from non-trading accounts based on business units," he said.
Each bank will divide its financial products holdings into two accounts -- one account for hedging risks in holdings of underlying cash instruments and for long-term investments, and the other for short-term operations, the sources said.
Louisiana-Pacific Corp. said Monday it will close its Ketchikan pulp mill in southeastern Alaska next year after the failure of negotiations with the Clinton administration over timber supply.
The company said it planned to take a $350 million charge against third-quarter pre-tax earnings -- $215 million or $2 per share after taxes -- to reflect shutdown of the pulp mill and nine smaller plants nationwide as well as settlement of a shareholder lawsuit.
The closing of the controversial 48-year-old pulp plant, which had been expected, will idle about 500 workers in Ketchikan, a city of 15,000 in the heart of the sprawling Tongass National Forest where the mill has long been the biggest employer.
Company executives said the mill would close March 24, 1997, after the existing supply of timber is processed.
Under an agreement worked out by the White House and Alaska Sen. Frank Murkowski, Louisiana-Pacific said it expected to get enough timber to continue operating two sawmills in the region for two more years, employing 400 to 500 workers.
Portland, Ore.-based Louisiana-Pacific blamed the closure of the pulp mill, which lost an estimated $40 million in the first nine months of the year, on "the Clinton administration's opposition to any compromise that would allow the pulp mill to operate profitably."
In a conference call with reporters, Louisiana-Pacific Chairman Mark Suwyn spoke of forces outside Alaska who wanted to reverse years of development in the state.
"There clearly is a push by many people who have a significant amount of power to shut down all of Alaska, and I am assuming they're going to turn it into some great big national park whereby only tourists can visit," he said.
Environmentalists called Suwyn's charge an exaggeration and said they were satisfied by the closure of a mill they claim has benefited from "sweetheart" federal timber contracts while causing significant air and water pollution.
Buck Lindekugel of the Southeast Alaska Conservation Council called the mill closure a "business decision to jettison a money-losing mill that can't compete in world pulp markets."
But Suwyn blamed changes imposed by the U.S. Forest Service after passage of the 1990 Tongass Reform Act, aimed at protecting the 17-million-acre reserve of old-growth rainforest that sprawls over islands, mountains and glaciers.
Louisiana-Pacific has filed lawsuits in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, seeking $200 million for breach of contract, and will be filing "significant additional claims in the very near future," Suwyn said.
He acknowledged what he called "stupid" environmental mistakes that resulted in Ketchikan Pulp Co.'s agreement last year to pay $6 million in civil and criminal penalties.
Louisiana-Pacific also said it planned to close or sell several plants that are no longer competitive or essential to its operations, including several structural panel plants being hurt by market overcapacity.
The company also said it has agreed to pay $65 million to settle shareholder lawsuits stemming from a drop in the company's stock price last year after revelations of civil and criminal actions.
Among them were class-action lawsuits over allegedly defective home siding developed by the company. Louisiana-Pacific agreed last year to pay up to $375 million to settle claims by homeowners in Florida, Oregon and Washington, among other states.
Suwyn said the shareholder lawsuits were the last major cloud over a company the he joined this year after the ouster of its longtime Chairman and Chief Executive Harry Merlo.
"We're simply trying to clean up all the things that are not going to contribute to moving this company forward," he said.
Computer Associates International Inc., a leading maker of software for businesses, said Monday it agreed to pay about $1.2 billion for Cheyenne Software Inc.
Computer Associates, the largest independent maker of business software for mainframe computers, said it will offer $30.50 in cash for each share of Cheyenne. Cheyenne's stock jumped $7.625 to $30 in afternoon trading on the American Stock Exchange.
Computer Associates' stock gained 62.5 cents to $63.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
While investors applauded the announcement, industry analysts said they were puzzled by what they viewed as the expensive price Computer Associates agreed to pay.
"This is departure from their standard practice," said UBS Securities analyst Joseph Farley. "They are paying more than they ever have. There's clearly some synergies," he added. "The question is whether those synergies are worth seven times sales."
Cheyenne reported revenues of $174.1 million in its fiscal year ending June 1996.
The deal, which has been rumoured for several months, has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both Cheyenne and Computer Associates, the companies said.
Roslyn, N.Y.-based Cheyenne makes storage management, anti-virus and communications software products designed to run on client/server networks in which personal computers are tied together in a network run by a larger computer, or server.
Computer Associates said Cheyenne's products will bolster its own systems management software offerings, which run on both client/server and mainframe computer networks. CA derives a majority of its revenues from mainframe software.
"We are extremely excited by the synergistic nature of this acquisition," said CA Chairman Charles Wang.
Computer Associates said it will fund the acquisition through cash balances and existing credit facilities.
"Cheyenne is the recognised leader in storage management solutions for the Windows NT and NetWare environments," Wang said in a statement. "The addition of its product suite will strengthen our efforts in the desktop and LAN environments."
Computer Associates said it intended to retain all of Cheyenne's employees. It is expected that Cheyenne will operate as a division of Computer Associates and will continue to support its current distribution channel strategy.
Both companies are based on New York's Long Island.
Earlier this year, Cheyenne successively waged an aggressive fight to fend off a $1 billion unwelcome takeover bid by McAffee Associates Inc, a rival maker of systems management and anti-virus software.
Since 1976, Computer Associates has grown through a campaign of approximately 60 acquisitions to become of the world's leading independent supplier of software.
Paul Mason, a software analyst with technology research firm International Data Corp. in Framingham, Mass., said the latest acquisition does not fit what he called "the CA model, both in terms of acqusisitions and product strategy.
"It's hard to see where this fits in. If they were getting this at a great price, I could understand the deal," he said.
The companies scheduled a teleconference with Wall Street analysts Monday afternoon.
Large U.S. medical device manufacturers are expected to post strong profit gains for the third quarter, possibly speeding a flight to quality in a sector where small-cap companies are taking a beating.
Five of nine big device companies are expected to report year-over-year earnings gains of 20 percent or more, according to First Call consensus forecasts.
On the strength of actual and projected earnings, stocks in larger companies, such as Medtronic Inc and Boston Scientific Corp, are rallying from a summer slump.  
"There hasn't been much of a bounce in the small-cap names. Instead, you're seeing a flight to quality ... Investor sentiment is clearly shifting," said Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette medical technology analyst Steven Halper.
As the market turns cautious on loss-making start-ups, major manufacturers are entering a new period of abundance that makes them attractive, analysts said.
"This quarter will suggest that, in fact, the bigger companies are some of the best positioned in the medical technology field. They have a surfeit of new technology and new products," said Montgomery Securities analyst Kurt Kruger.  
Products are making it to market more quickly as well, thanks to more rapid U.S. Food and Drug Administration reviews. The agency approved 37 product marketing applications in its latest fiscal year, up from 27 in the prior year and 26 in fiscal 1994, according to Montgomery Securitities' count.
"This has reduced considerably the risk in bringing a new product to market and has important commercial relevance for the industry," Kruger said.
Continued powerful growth in European and Asian consumer demand for U.S. medical devices also bodes well for U.S. companies big enough to take advantage of it, analysts said.  
U.S. FIRST CALL CONSENSUS QTRLY EARNINGS FORECASTS
Company			    Qtr  EPS estimate  Yr-ago EPS
C.R. Bard			  Q3     $0.47	   $0.43
Boston Scientific		Q3     $0.41	   $0.31
Guidant			    Q3     $0.54	   $0.39
Johnson &amp; Johnson		Q3     $0.55	   $0.48
Medtronic			  Q2     $0.55	   $0.45
St. Jude Medical		 Q3     $0.45	   $0.42
Sofamor Danek		    Q3     $0.42	   $0.34
Stryker			    Q3     $0.25	   $0.21
Target Therapeutics	    Q2     $0.22	   $0.18
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Channel tunnel operator Eurotunnel on Monday announced details of a deal giving bank creditors 45.5 percent of the company in return for wiping out 1.0 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) of its massive debts.
The long-awaited but highly complex restructuring of nearly nearly nine billion pounds of debt and unpaid interest throws the company a lifeline which could secure what is still likely to be a difficult future.
The deal, announced simultaneously in Paris and London, brings the company back from the brink of bankruptcy but leaves current shareholders, who have already seen their investment dwindle, owning only 54.5 percent of the company.
"We have fixed and capped the interest payments and arranged only to pay what is available in cash," Eurotunnel co-chairman Alastair Morton told reporters at a news conference. "Avoiding having to do this again is the name of the game."
Morton said the plan provides the Anglo-French company with the medium term financial stability to consolidate its commercial position and develop its operations, adding that the firm was now making a profit before interest.
Although shareholders will see their holdings diluted, they were offered the prospect of a brighter future and urged to be patient after months of uncertainty while Eurotunnel wrestled to reduce the crippling interest payments negotiated during the tunnel's construction.
Eurotunnel, which has taken around half of the market in the busiest cross-Channel route from the European ferry companies, said a strong operating performance could allow it to pay its first dividend within the next 10 years.
French co-chairman Patrick Ponsolle told reporters at a Paris news conference that the dividend could come as early as 2004 if the company performed "very well".
Eurotunnel and the banks have come up with an ingenious formula to help the company get over the early years of the deal when, despite the swaps of debt for equity and bonds, it will still not be able to afford the annual interest bill of 400 million pounds.
If its revenue, after costs and depreciation, is less than 400 million pounds, then the company will issue "Stabilisation notes" to a maximum of 1.85 billion pounds to the banks. Eurotunnel would not pay interest on these notes (which would constitute a debt issue) for ten years.
Analysts said that under the deal, Eurotunnel's ability to finance its debt would become sustainable, at least for a few years.
"If you look at the current cash flow of between 150 and 200 million pounds a year, what they can't find (to meet the bill) they will roll forward into the stabilisation notes, and they can keep that going for seven, eight, nine years," said an analyst at one major investment bank.
"So they are here for that time," he added.
The company said in a statement there was still considerable work to be done to finalise and agree the details of the plan before it can be submitted to shareholders and the bank group for approval, probably early in the Spring of 1997.
Eurotunnel said the debt-for-equity swap would be at 130 pence, or 10.40 francs, per share -- considerably below the level of 160 pence widely reported in the run up to the deal
The company said a further 3.7 billion pounds of debt would be converted into new financial instruments and existing shareholders would be able to participate in this issue.
If they choose not to take up free warrants entitling them to subscribe to this, Eurotunnel said shareholders' interests may be reduced further to just over 39 percent of the company by the end of December 2003.
Eurotunnel's shares, which were suspended last week at 113.5 pence ahead of Monday's announcement, will resume trading on Tuesday.
Shareholders and all 225 creditor banks have to agree the deal. "I'm hopeful but I'm not taking it (approval) for granted," Morton admitted, "Shareholders are pretty angry in France."
Asked what would happen if the banks reject the deal, Morton said, "Nobody wants a collapse, nobody wants a doomsday scenario."
($1=.6393 Pound)
Anglo-French Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel Monday announced a deal giving its creditor banks 45.5 percent of the company in return for wiping out one billion pounds ($1.56 billion) of its debt.
The long-awaited restructuring brings to an end months of wrangling between Eurotunnel and the 225 banks to which it owes nearly nine billion pounds ($14.1 billion).
The deal, announced simultaneously in Paris and London, brings the company back from the brink of insolvency but leaves shareholders owning only 54.5 percent of the company.
"The restructuring plan provides Eurotunnel with the medium-term financial stability to allow it to consolidate its substantial commercial achievements to date and to develop its operations," Eurotunnel co-chairman Alastair Morton said.
The firm was now making a profit before interest, he added.
Although shareholders will see their interests diluted, they were offered the prospect of a brighter future after months of uncertainty while Eurotunnel wrestled to reduce crippling interest payments negotiated during the tunnel's construction.
Eurotunnel, which has taken around half the cross-Channel market from the European ferry companies, said a strong operating performance could allow it to pay its first dividend within the next 10 years.
French co-chairman Patrick Ponsolle said shareholders would have to be patient before they could reap the benefits of the company's success.
He called the debt restructuring plan "an acceptable compromise" for holders of Eurotunnel shares.
The company said there was still considerable work to be done to finalise and agree on the details of the plan before it can be submitted to shareholders and the full 225 bank syndicate for approval, probably early in 1997.
Monday's announcement followed two weeks of highly secretive negotiations between Eurotunnel and its six leading banks. This was extended to the 24 "instructing banks" at a meeting late last week in London.
Eurotunnel said the debt-for-equity swap would be at 130 pence, or 10.40 francs, per share. That is considerably below the level of around 160 pence widely reported before announcement of the deal, and will reduce outstanding debt of 8.7 billion pounds ($13.6 billion) by 1.0 billion ($1.56 billion).
The company said a further 3.7 billion pounds ($5.8 billion) of debt would be converted into new financial instruments and existing shareholders would be able to participate in this issue.
If they choose not to take up free warrants entitling them to subscribe to this, Eurotunnel said shareholders' interests may be reduced further to just over 39 percent of the company by the end of December 2003.
Eurotunnel's shares, which were suspended last week at 113.5 pence ahead of Monday's announcement, should resume trading on Tuesday, the company said.
Anglo-French Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel on Monday announced a deal giving creditor banks 45.5 percent of the company in return for wiping out one billion pounds ($1.56 billion) of its debt mountain.
The long-awaited restructuring brings to an end months of wrangling between Eurotunnel and the 225 banks to which it owes nearly nine billion pounds.
The deal, announced simultaneously in Paris and London, brings the company back from the brink of insolvency but leaves shareholders owning only 54.5 percent of the company.
"The restructuring plan provides Eurotunnel with the medium term financial stability to allow it to consolidate its substantial commercial achievements to date and to develop its operations," Eurotunnel co-chairman Alastair Morton said.
The firm was now making a profit before interest, he added.
Although shareholders will see their interests diluted, they were offered the prospect of a brighter future after months of uncertainty while Eurotunnel wrestled to reduce crippling interest payments negotiated during the tunnel's construction.
Eurotunnel, which has taken around half the cross-Channel market from the European ferry companies, said a strong operating performance could allow it to pay its first dividend within the next 10 years.
French co-chairman Patrick Ponsolle said shareholders would have to be patient before they could reap the benefits of the company's success.
He called the debt restructuring plan "an acceptable compromise" for holders of Eurotunnel shares.
The company said in a statement there was still considerable work to be done to finalise and agree the details of the plan before it can be submitted to shareholders and the full 225 bank syndicate for approval, probably early in 1997.
Monday's announcement followed two weeks of highly secretive negotiations between Eurotunnel and its six leading banks. This was extended to the 24 "instructing banks" at a meeting late last week in London.
Eurotunnel said the debt-for-equity swap would be at 130 pence, or 10.40 francs, per share. That is considerably below the level of around 160 pence widely reported in the run up to the deal, and will reduce outstanding debt of 8.7 billion pounds by 1.0 billion.
The company said a further 3.7 billion pounds of debt would be converted into new financial instruments and existing shareholders would be able to participate in this issue.
If they choose not to take up free warrants entitling them to subscribe to this, Eurotunnel said shareholders' interests may be reduced further to just over 39 percent of the company by the end of December 2003.
Eurotunnel's shares, which were suspended last week at 113.5 pence ahead of Monday's announcement, should resume trading on Tuesday, the company said. ($1=.6393 Pound)
Drug discovery specialist Chiroscience Group plc said on Monday it is testing two anti-cancer compounds before deciding which will go forward into human trials before the end of the year.
Both are MMP inhibitors, the same novel class of drug as British Biotech Plc's potential blockbuster Marimastat, which are believed to stop cancer cells from spreading.
In an interview, chief executive John Padfield said Chiroscience hoped to have its own competitor to Marimastat in early trials next year and Phase III trials in 1998.
A restructuring agreed between Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel SA /Plc and bank negotiators on its 69.6 billion francs of debt was a "robust" deal, French co-chairman Patrick Ponsolle said on Monday.
He told a news conference the restructuring was robust as it would eliminate a total 16 billion francs of debt by swapping eight billion of loans into equity and a further eight billion for equity notes.
The plan secured the company's future until 2003, when the London-Folkestone high-speed rail link would be built, he said.
"After 2003 we will see an explosion of revenues from the railways," Ponsolle said.
The restructuring meant the interest bill would be fixed at 5.2 percent or 3.21 billion francs for the seven-year period. That rate was much lower than market rates, the company said.
If there is a cashflow shortage to repay interest, it will be able to draw down on stabilisation notes, which are effectively a credit line, free of interest until January 2006.
The plan also pushed back the debt repayment periods by a significant period, Ponsolle said. The resettable bonds mature in 2050, the participating loan notes in 2040, the remaining junior debt in 2025 and stabilisation notes in 2026.
Eurotunnel has also negotiated the right to refinance all its debt after 2004, free of penalties, to benefit from any improvement in market conditions. Previously, that refinancing incurred heavy financial penalties.
The deal had been worked out using a wide range of scenarios and sought to preserve the company's future and independence, Ponsolle said. "It is the best compromise under the circumstances. The sacrifices for shareholders and banks are equal and equitable."
The two chief aims of the deal were "to preserve a clear majority for the shareholders and to ensure long-term financial stability," he said.
Although the company planned to pay a first dividend in around 10 years, if it performed very well it could make a payment at the date envisaged in the 1994 rights issue -- 2004.
Asked what would happen if shareholders rejected the deal, Ponsolle said, "I think we would go back to the choices at the starting point. The starting point was either we come to a friendly agreement or insolvency."
"I think, contrary to some, an insolvency could only be a catastrophe for the small shareholders."
Prices should rise "to a reasonable level" following the merger announcement last week of P&amp;O and Stena of their cross-Channel operations, Ponsolle said.
The merger news had come as a surprise to Eurotunnel, which had not expected such a move until later, perhaps in 1997, he said.
The earliest Eurotunnel could hold a shareholders' meeting to vote on the deal would be late March or early April, he said.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452 pnt
Australian life office National Mutual Holdings Ltd is tipped to make a strong, historic debut on the Australian and New Zealand bourses on Tuesday after its institutional offer closed six times oversubscribed last week.
The final price of A$1.60 per share was higher than the indicative bidding range initially set for institutions, and gives Australia's second biggest life office a market capitalisation of A$2.7 billion (US$2 billion) on listing.
"It was very significantly over-subscribed and at A$1.60 there's no doubt that we could have sold it a number of times over," National Mutual managing director Geoff Tomlinson told Reuters in an interview on Monday.
National Mutual is Australia's first listed life office and, at A$1.60 per share, will rank among the market's top 30 firms.
The shares could climb steeply on both the Australian and New Zealand exchanges on Tuesday, as institutional bidders which failed to secure enough shares in the offer step into the market to lift their stakes, share analysts told Reuters on Monday.
Institutions received on average only about 15 percent of the allotments sought, a market source told Reuters.
"There's certainly keen demand...," Morgan Stockbroking's director of equities, Bill Chatterton, said. The shares could reach a high of A$1.80, he added.
National Mutual's listing completes its 21-month transition from a mutual company owned by its policy-holders to a listed group free to pursue its strategic focus on Asia, unshackled by a mutual requirement to act solely in policy-holders' interests.
National Mutual will be owned 51 percent on listing by its French parent, the insurance and financial services giant Axa SA, which is prevented under the terms of the float from selling down its stake for six months after the listing.
Axa, which effectively bought into National Mutual last year at around A$1.25 per share, is sitting on an enormous paper profit. It cannot increase its stake in National Mutual unless given the Australian government's go-ahead.
Under the float, National Mutual's 1.2 million policy holders were offered either shares or a cash alternative. Shares not taken up were offered to retail investors and institutions.
Retail investors were offered the shares at A$1.50 each last month, before the final price was set at the close of institutional bidding last Friday, giving mums and dads a strong temptation to take a quick profit on Tuesday, analysts said.
"There's going to be a fair amount of underlying demand from institutions to get the stock, but there may be a little bit of stag profit-taking as well," a Melbourne-based analyst said.
National Mutual's Tomlinson said the listing, demutualisation and last year's capital injection of A$1.1 billion by Axa marked the end of a tough four years, especially for life subsidiary National Mutual Life.
"Tomorrow will mark the end of a four-year diffcult period and put us into a new area where we can...finalise the turnaround of National Mutual Life in Australia and New Zealand and try to take further advantage of our opportunities in Asia," he said.
A$1 = US$0.79
Australian life office National Mutual Holdings Ltd is expected to make a firm, historic debut on the Australian and New Zealand bourses on Tuesday after its institutional offer closed six times oversubscribed last week.
The final price of A$1.60 per share was higher than indicative bidding range of A$1.35 to A$1.55 initially set for institutions, and gives Australia's second biggest life office a market capitalisation of A$2.7 billion on listing.  
"It was very significantly over-subscribed and at A$1.60 there's no doubt that we could have sold it a number of times over," National Mutual managing director Geoff Tomlinson told Reuters on Monday. He described an oversubscription rate of six times as "not a bad figure".
Share analysts told Reuters on Monday the shares could climb steeply on Australian and New Zealand exchanges on Tuesday, as institutional bidders which failed to secure enough shares in the offer stepped into the market to lift their stakes.  
Institutions received on average only about 15 percent of the allotments sought in the price-setting institutional component of the offer, a market source said.
"There's certainly keen demand so I think that will certainly still be there (after listing)," Morgan Stockbroking's director of equities, Bill Chatterton, told Reuters on Monday.
The shares could reach a high of A$1.80, he added.
Officials with Volkswagen-First Automotive Works in northeastern China on Monday dismissed a report that the joint venture faced possible closure.
"This report is incorrect," said a spokeswoman of the joint venture, referring to a report by the German news magazine Der Spiegel.
"Production is still continuing," she said in a telephone interview from Changchun.
"We have a 25-year agreement. If the German side withdrew unilaterally, they would have to pay compensation," she said. She added that the two sides would soon hold a ceremony marking the full implementation of the joint venture project.
A spokesman for Volkswagen AG's Volkswagen Asia-Pacific arm in Hong Kong also said production at the joint venture would continue.
"There is no reason to leave Changchun," he said.
Der Spiegel said the Changchun plant was losing money and production of the Jetta car had practically ceased.
The Hong Kong-based official said the factory had produced 14,700 Jetta cars in the first eight months of this year, up 10 percent from a year ago.
The Jetta was not selling as well as the Volkswagen Santana produced at Volkswagen's Shanghai joint venture, but that operation had taken the lion's share of the domestic passenger car market, he said.
However, some changes in the joint venture agreement were being negotiated, including the introduction of new car models as well as the possibility of Volkswagen taking over sales and after-sales service, the official added.
First Automotive Works had been producing Audi 100s at its own production line in Changchun under a seven-year licensing agreement that expired in June. The Audi 200 was now being built at the joint venture, and 400 have been produced since June.
A total of 7,445 Audi 100s were built from January to June this year, the Volkswagen official said.
First Automotive has also sold 4,120 of its Red Flag cars, an Audi-based car that the Chinese company produces separately from the joint venture using a Chrysler Corp engine, according to Volkswagen.
Tibet's toilets offer some of the most spectacular views in the world -- if you can hold your nose long enough to enjoy the scenery.
Many tourists on the roof of the world are so overwhelmed by the breathtaking beauty of the Himalayan plateau that such niceties as stinking lavatories are the least of their concerns.
Given the altitude -- 3,680 metres (12,000 feet) in the Tibetan capital Lhasa -- many visitors stifled by the rarefied air scarcely have time to breathe the noxious odours from public toilets with unglazed windows that open on to views of mountains and temples. And most really don't care.
"It's pretty much indescribable. It's vast, overwhelming, awesome, beautiful, interesting," said U.S. tourist Mary Beth Cooper, visiting from Cleveland, Ohio, as she toured the Jokhang temple in Lhasa, holy of holies in a land dotted with Buddhist shrines and sacred sites.
Tourists say they are stunned by the beauty of Tibet's soaring Himalayas, the warmth of its nomadic and deeply devout people and the mysteries of its ancient Buddhist monasteries.
Officials are clearly almost as excited as the tourists as they reel off a list of their achievements in developing Tibet's major industry and the various recreational activities on offer to lure more dollars to one of China's poorest, most backward and inaccessible regions.
Tourism on the roof of the world is a growth sector, officials say. It is the most lucrative source of foreign exchange for this vast, sparsely populated land -- apart from trade -- and is an industry that officials eagerly nurture.
Tibet earned $22 million in tourist dollars last year and is hoping for $30 million this year. It hopes to increase earnings by 8-10 percent a year and to play host to 60,000 visitors a year by the turn of the century.
"We got off to a late start compared with the rest of China," Zhou Lizong, vice director of the Tibet Tourism Bureau, said in an interview.
Tibet inched open its doors to foreign tourism in 1980.
However, the route to 1996 when hundreds of awestruck tourists can be seen panting around Tibet's monasteries and mountains has been fraught with difficulties.
Riots by monks protesting against Chinese rule in 1987 -- a record year for tourism with 47,000 foreign visitors -- was followed by two years of unrest, several months of martial law and a tourism nadir.
"However, since 1990 tourism has gradually recovered," Zhou said. "And since 1992 things have really improved with between 30,000 and 40,000 foreign visitors a year."
Officials acknowledge that Tibet's infrastructure lags, there is a shortage of hotel rooms, especially higher-end accommodation, as well as of transport facilities. The cost of a holiday in Tibet far exceeds a vacation anywhere else in China.
The type of visitor has changed in recent years.
In 1987, only 10,000 foreign tourists came in high-spending organised groups. The rest were low-budget backpackers.
Now, backpackers are few and far between because of a policy imposed from Beijing that requires all visitors to the restive region to obtain a special permit -- and this can only be done through a travel agent and as part of a tour group.
Zhou insists the system has not hampered visitors.
"This does not make it more difficult to come to Tibet, you can, even in a group of just one person."
Backpackers spent little and damaged the natural resources, he said. Some individual foreign travellers were unfortunate enough to freeze to death on Tibet's wild and rugged plateau, said bureau vice Communist Party secretary Xiao Zhigang.
"We are not saying backpackers can't come," he said. "Everyone is welcome."
Beijing and Tibetan security officials may be less welcoming. They blame the huge 1987 influx of backpackers, many of them ex-hippies looking for a cause, for helping to stir up pro-independence unrest over the next two years.
Most tourists said they had few problems entering Tibet -- either because officials did not bother to require a permit or because of the efficiency of travel agencies.
"We have had absolutely no difficulties," said Cooper.
"The temples are magnificent... unlike anything I have seen anywhere," she said. "People are very friendly. Big, big smiles from people... from all sorts of ethnic backgrounds."
One American couple said they took three years to find an agent who could realise their dream of a holiday in the land fabled to be Shangri-La. They were not disappointed.
"Everything is as beautiful as we thought it would be. We are very glad we came," said the husband, who declined to be identified.
Officials say tourists are drawn by three main attractions -- Tibet's natural beauty and towering mountains, its monasteries and temples and its unique and mysterious culture.
That's not all. Tibet offers adventure tours to Everest, the world's highest mountain at 8,848 metres (29,028 ft), to the nature reserve at its foot, trekking with yaks and camping in yak-hair tents and mountain biking.
Not all tourists are bewitched, and several said the highly publicised campaign of Tibet's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama, for autonomy for his homeland had sparked their curiosity.
"There are positive points such as better sanitation and roads, but the Tibetans have paid a high price," said one French woman tourist. "The Chinese could give them more autonomy.
"When we see the ugly Chinese buildings, the little Tibetan houses seem more beautiful."
Others said they were curious about the politics.
"Our impression is overwhelming," said Norwegian Bodil Borchgrevink Grindal.
"I do not want to say too much about the political situation for several reasons, but as Norwegians we gave the Nobel Peace Prize to (the) Dalai Lama and if we say we supported very much that decision I think we have said what we need to say."
Others just couldn't breathe.
"The altitude makes it very difficult for me," said one Austrian man. "But I am just so glad that I have been able to see something."
The semiconductor industry's key indicator of computer chip demand rose in September to its highest level this year, reflecting a stronger-than-expected increase in new orders.
The Semiconductor Industry Association said Tuesday the North American book-to-bill ratio, which measures the value of orders against shipments, rose to 0.99 in September from a revised 0.93 in August. The ratio means manufacturers received $99 in new orders last month for every $100 in shipments.
Industry analysts had expected the ratio to inch closer to breakeven with most estimates averaging around 0.95.
New orders for chips rose to $3.19 billion, a 9 percent increase from August, and shipments inched upward to $3.22 billion, or 2.1 percent above August's level.
"From any perspective, these are the most positive numbers we've seen all year," Douglas Andrey, director of information systems and finance for the association, said in a statement. "The modest increase in orders for August and September suggest the 1996 slowdown in growth has bottomed out.
The ratio, a leading indicator of future demand tallied by the industry trade group, has been improving recently, reflecting an increase in orders by personal computer makers and more stable prices for memory chips.
"People are buying PCs as if there's no tomorrow," said Dan Klesken, an analyst at Robertson Stephens in San Francisco. "We're having a PC-led recovery in the chip industry."
Analysts predicted the better-than-expected ratio would likely send shares of key technology stocks higher on Wednesday.
In after-hours trading, shares of Intel Corp., the world's largest chipmaker, rose $1.375 to $103 and shares of Micron Technology Inc., a key supplier of memory chips, jumped 87.5 cents to $32.375.
Prices of memory chips, or DRAMs, plummeted over the course of the year to a fraction of what they were in January. Because memory chips make up about 40 percent of the unit volume of semiconductors shipped in a year, their prices have had a big influence on orders and sales measured in dollars.
But since mid-September, memory prices have risen 30 percent to 50 percent from their lows.
The September ratio marked the highest level since December of 1995 when the index hit 1.12. A year ago it stood at 1.16.
Micron said late last week that memory chip inventories were down to desirable levels from formerly excessive levels.
Worldwide, the ratio rose to 0.97 in August from 0.95 in July. Global figures include Asia, Europe, North America and Japan and are one month behind North American figures. The Japan book-to-bill ratio rose above 1.0.
Robertson Stephen's Klesken said he was particulary impressed by the rise in Europe, which had a ration of 1.04.
A startup Seattle software company Tuesday launched a product aimed at solving one of the Internet's most vexing problems: information overload.
Intermind Corp., formed a little more than a year ago by a software consultant and a former Microsoft Corp. executive, said its Intermind Communicator allowed users to seek customized information from World Wide Web sites that use the program.
For example, a music fan visiting the popular "Addicted to Noise" Web site could seek to be notified by a message similar to electronic mail every time new CD reviews were available. A mouse click on the notification message would take the user directly to the information.
Intermind President David Arnold said the software aims to go beyond news dissemination systems from Pointcast Corp. and others to allow more sophisticated "dialogue" between consumers and publishers, technology companies and retailers.
Customers who frequent Spiegel Corp.'s web site could choose to be notified of any sales in selected categories and then easily could link up to the site and place an order. High-tech companies like Apple Computer Inc. and Visio Corp. will use the system to send customers technical bulletins or information about new products.
"This is the ultimate in custom publishing and narrowcasting," said David Strom, an industry constultant and newsletter publisher.
Company officials said they hoped to distribute 2 million copies of the software, which is free to non-commercial users, by the end of the year. Commercial users will pay a fee based on revenue generated or subscribers reached, Arnold said.
Arnold said the company, with 72 employees in several offices, was "strong financially." He declined to identify the investors but confirmed published reports that cellular telephone pioneer Craig McCaw is among the minority holders.
The software, which works from within either of the two major Internet browsers, is available for Microsoft's Windows 95 and Windows NT platforms and will be available within one week for Windows 3.1. Apple Macintosh and Unix versions are expected by year-end.
So far more than 35 Internet and Intranet sites provide Intermind "Hyperconnectors" that can be personally customized. Company executives said the software takes only five minutes to set up for customers or 15 minutes for publishers, who do not need separate server software.
Netscape and Microsoft and others agreed on Tuesday that the so-called Internet browser wars were silly, although that did not stop some sparks from flying between the two battling CEOs at a computer conference here.
Microsoft Corp. and Netscape Communications Corp. are locked in a few battles over Internet software, with the most attention being paid to the fight for share in the Internet browser market, where Microsoft is an underdog.
"I do think there is a certain silliness about these browser wars," said Steve Case, chairman and CEO of America Online Inc, on a panel at a Gartner Group technology symposium here. Case's AOL was one of the first online services to embrace Internet Explorer as its preferred browser software, in exchange for a spot on Microsoft's Windows 95 desktop.
Case said that he believes Microsoft and Netscape will end up with comparable market share and he likened the battle to the set-top box war in the early days of the cable television industry during the 1980s.
Netscape still dominates the Internet browser market with its Navigator software, which has an approximate 70 to 80 percent share of the market.
But Microsoft recently said that its Internet Explorer is gaining momentum, as it continues to sign on more deals to have Internet Explorer bundled as the primary browser with more online services and Internet access providers.
Just last week, Internet Explorer became the preferred browser on AT&amp;T's WorldNet Internet access service, fueling some analysts to say the deal was another blow to Netscape's dominance of the browser market.
James Barksdale, president and CEO of Netscape, pointed out that while the feud between Navigator and Internet Explorer is the "current blood sport in the popular press," he pointed out that 80 percent of Netscape's revenues are from sales to the corporate network or "intranet" market.
In that market, Netscape is aiming to hold onto its dominance of the server that runs internal corporate networks and is competing with Microsoft's BackOffice and with International Business Machines Corp's Lotus Notes.
Bill Gates, chairman and CEO of the software behemoth Microsoft, said that the competition between Netscape and Microsoft is good for the market.
"We compete with Netscape and there is a lot of value there," he said, adding that Microsoft has many developers working pretty much at "full speed" to develop new Internet software. He conceded that in part, the fast-moving competition from Netscape has fueled this intensity.
One area where the sparring companies did agree was on the Internet itself, which both Gates and Barksdale said should remain free of government intervention.
"No one will come to dominate standards on the Internet, that's why it works," said Barksdale.
Gates drew laughter when he said that Microsoft, which dominates the operating system arena with Windows software, will still make "some percent" of the operating systems. But he also said that "no one will control the printing presses" of the Internet.
One Gartner Group analyst asked Barksdale if that view was contradictory with Netscape's recent request to the Department of Justice to investigate Microsoft's Internet marketing tactics.
"In that matter...all we've asked is 'let's stay with the consent decree,'" Barskdale said, referring to the 1994 consent decree between Microsoft and the U.S. Department of Justice, which set restrictions on Microsoft's behavior.
"We don't believe they are doing that," said Barksdale, in an interview with Reuters after the panel. But he declined to speak further on the DOJ's latest request for information from Microsoft, saying that he is having his lawyers do the talking.
Gates was mum on the DOJ during the panel and he shook Barksdale's hand after the session. The two also pointed out that they are working together to develop industry standards for credit card transactions over the Internet, after being on opposing sides of that battle.
"I don't want this to sound like a love-in, but Bill's company and my company work together with Carl's company (Carl Pascarella, president and CEO of Visa U.S.A.) to make (credit card transaction) standards," Barksdale said. "Otherwise we would all be dead."
But the two CEOs collided on their views of the future. Gates, who is known for being an industry visionary, forecast that within five years many things on the Internet will change and be easier to use, such as the use of URLs (universal resource locators) to find World Wide Wed sites.
"In five years I am quite optimistic that there will be some radical breakthroughs," Gates said, adding that users will look at things like URLs and see how silly they were.
Barksdale, however, pointed out that such predictions are impossible to make.
"We have to be honest, despite my learned colleague Mr. Gates's comments," Barksdale said. "It's very hard to predict five years. How many of you would have predicted two and a half years ago that we would have a panel on this topic or that Netscape would be on this panel?" he asked, pointing out that Netscape did not even exist two and a half years ago.
Semiconductor stocks, Wall Street's whipping boys for the past year, are headed toward becoming prized performers amid signs that double-digit growth is returning to the once hot sector, analysts said.
North American sales and bookings data for September due out on Tuesday afternoon are expected to confirm that the industry has reached a cyclical bottom and is poised to see a rebound in profits -- perhaps as early as the fourth quarter.
"They should definitely reaccelerate from here," said Montgomery analyst John Joseph of chip sales.
It may be only the second qualifier on the long road leading to the 1998 World Cup but the Czech Republic and Spain are approaching Wednesday night's European group six match as though it were a battle for the final.
For the Czechs it will be the first big test since they reached the Euro 96 final, while Spain are expected to give Real Madrid's teenage striker Raul Gonzalez his first cap in the hope that he will give them badly-needed scoring power.
Both sides opened their campaigns last month with high-scoring victories over the two weakest teams in the group, Spain winning 6-2 in the Faroe Islands and the Czechs thrashing Malta 6-0.
But Yugoslavia have already collected three wins and Slovakia two against the same two hapless victims and neither the Czechs nor Spain can afford to give ground in Prague.
"(The Spanish) are explosive and technically very sound. This game's made all the more important because a loss will make it a difficult trip for either side," Czech midfielder Karel Poborsky of English premier league Manchester United said.
Victory alone will satisfy Spain's veteran goalkeeper Andoni Zubizarreta. "I would not be happy with a draw, we want three points," he said.
Czech coach Dusan Uhrin has named 16 of the 19-strong squad which caused a surprise by reaching the final of June's European championship in which they lost to Germany.
They include in-form midfielder Patrik Berger, who scored six goals in 10 days for English premier league Liverpool last month.
"Spain is obviously a strong team but we showed in London that we can play anybody," Berger said.
While the Czechs are looking to build on recent success, Spain are rebuilding and plugging holes where necessary.
Raul, 19, who scored twice against the Czechs in the quarter-finals of last season's European under-21 competition, is Real Madrid's top scorer even after being moved into a supporting role by new coach Fabio Capello.
"There are some players absent...It's the right moment to pick Raul," Spain manager Javier Clemente said.
Clemente had been strongly criticised for sticking by veteran forward Julio Salinas instead of choosing Raul.
Neither Salinas nor injured striker Kiko Narvaez are on the trip but Kiko's Atletico Madrid team mate Jose Luis Caminero is fit and is expected to be given the role of playmaker in the starting line-up.
With Spain likely to face problems in the air, tall defender Roberto Rios and striker Ismael Urzaiz have been called into the squad for the first time.
Of the seven players chosen from the multi-billion peseta Barcelona line-up, midfielder Guillermo Amor, defender Abelardo Fernandez and striker Juan Pizzi have not played regularly this season under new coach Bobby Robson, a former England manager.
By contrast utility man Luis Enrique Martinez has blossomed since moving to Barcelona from Real Madrid.  
Teams (from):
Czech Republic - Petr Kouba, Pavel Srnicek; Miroslav Kadlec, Lubos Kubik, Tomas Repka, Michal Hornak, Jan Suchoparek; Radoslav Latal, Jiri Nemec, Karel Poborsky, Pavel Nedved, Patrik Berger, Radek Bejbl, Pavel Novotny, Martin Frydek, Richard Dostalek; Pavel Kuka, Vladimir Smicer, Radovan Hromadko.
Spain - Andoni Zubizarreta, Santiago Canizares; Roberto Rios, Alberto Belsue, Rafael Alkorta, Fernando Hierro, Miguel Angel Nadal, Agustin Aranzabal, Sergi Barjuan, Abelardo Fernandez; Guillermo Amor, Josep Guardiola, Luis Enrique Martinez, Julen Guerrero, Jose Luis Caminero, Juan Pizzi, Raul Gonzalez, Alfonso Perez, Ismael Urzaiz.
Czech consumer prices edged up less than expected in September, pleasantly surprising analysts though they remain guarded on the prospects of whether the government can hit its full-year target.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said on Tuesday that CPI rose 0.3 percent, month-on-month, in September after an equally unexpected 0.2 percent increase in August.
The year-on-year rate now stands 8.9 percent higher while the September sliding 12 month average inflation average was 8.7 percent, after 8.6 percent in August. A Reuters survey of economists had predicted a monthly increase of 0.6 percent.
"Our forecast for the whole year does not change, which is also given by the fact that one month result does not change much in the average inflation rate," Martin Kupka of investment bank Patria Finance told Reuters.
"I don't think that the favourable development of the last two months will repeat in the months at the end of the year, which leads to our nine percent (average) inflation forecast for the whole year, not lower," he added.
The government had originally set its average inflation rate target for the whole year at eight percent, but recently raised it to 8.3 percent.
Analysts said that 0.2 percent monthly increase in the food, tobacco and beverages sector contributed to the overall result, though they warned it could have been caused by seasonal influences.
The CSU said prices in the heavily-weighted sector were held back by a 19 percent drop in potato prices, as well as a fall in vegetable and fruit prices.
Kupka welcomed the September result, but said that when more foodstuffs from the domestic harvest come to the market toward the end of the year, prices could be pushed up as farmers look to offset rising production costs.
Radek Maly of Prague's Citibank branch said he was pleased by the September figures, as he had expected a monthly increase of 0.5 percent.
"We have to wait for what the foodstuffs prices will do in the next months...But if they keep this pace, in line with the other basket components, we could get positive figures at the end of the year," Maly said.
"The year-on-year rate could get under nine percent at the year's end if the trend continues... maybe the moving average as well."
He added that other components of the basket also showed positive development, following low increases in producer prices in the last several months.
The CSU said prices in the leisure sector dropped by 1.1 percent in the month, thanks mainly to lower prices of holiday trips abroad. Education costs rose 3.9 percent due to an increase in fees at the beginning of the new school year.
Clothing prices rose 0.9 percent, housing climbed 0.3 percent, and transportation prices remained flat in the month.
The CSU in July raised its average inflation forecast for the whole year to 9.0 percent, and the cabinet based its 1997 budget calculations on an average inflation expectation of 8.6 percent.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Imperial Tobacco Group will split from conglomerate Hanson Plc on Oct. 1 as one of the most efficient players in its sector, but while its new chief talks of export-led growth, the outlook is clouded by the threat of litigation against tobacco firms.
Imperial is Britain's second-biggest tobacco firm after B.A.T Industries. Its brands include Embassy, John Player Special and Superkings cigarettes as well as Panama and Castella cigars.
It is one of four arms of the mighty Hanson conglomerate being spun off into separate companies.
In the 10 years since Hanson took over Imperial, it has slashed costs, cut its brands to 33 from 150 and raised productivity by 195 percent. Its 1995 profits were 348 million pounds ($538.9 million) on 3.6 billion ($5.6 billion) of sales.
But analysts fear that despite Imperial's impressive track record, its shares could face a rough ride once listed in London.
This week saw tobacco stocks hit by a backlash in the United States, with fresh litigation plus tough new curbs from President Clinton to regulate the industry.
So far, BAT Industries has borne the brunt. But some analysts believe it is only a matter of time before the U.S. scenario widens its impact and is repeated across the Atlantic.
"If it happens in the United States, it's subsequently followed in other countries," said Zafar Khan, analyst at Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull.
"Imperial could have been a ripe international takeover candidate. But the litigation threat means a group buying a tobacco company would have a tough time selling the idea to shareholders now," he said.
UBS analysts agree that the threat of legal action is enough to dampen the company's outlook.
But they warn of another possible dampener on the stock when Imperial starts trading -- its heavy reliance on Britain, largely seen as a mature market. Britain accounts for 87 percent of profits, say analysts.
Imperial has already committed itself to overseas expansion, but there are fears it will have a tough time muscling in on the U.S. giants, which have already made inroads into the markets of tomorrow - India, China and the Far East.
Gareth Davis, Imperial's chief executive, told the London-based Evening Standard newspaper earlier this week that he believed the group would continue to build up exports to Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.
"Worldwide this industry is buoyant," he said.
Inco Ltd's huge nickel, copper and cobalt property at Voisey's Bay in remote Labrador keeps getting bigger, with 11 drill rigs working around the clock to define three enormous deposits that promise to upset the world's metals markets.  
"There are a couple hundred million tonnes for sure, close to proven," said Greg Soper, a drill manager for Archean Resources, which has an exploration contract until the end of the year at the Northern site on a sub-Arctic land mass that is closer to Greenland than to much of the rest of Canada.
"This here is a world class deposit. Every week we're hitting stuff," said Soper, waving his arm to point at the vast stretch of bog and thin forest surrounding the round, rocky hill where metals were discovered two years ago.  
Inco's most recent calculations, compiled in an internal report at the end of August, showed 138 million tonnes of resource (corrects from "proven or probable reserves") spread out over three different deposits at the Voisey's Bay property. Resources are potential reserves.
On average, the deposits graded 2.09 percent nickel, 1.24 percent copper and 0.99 percent cobalt, the report said.
At the Ovoid deposit, found close to the surface of a bog close to the Labrador Sea, drilling has outlined 37.5 million tonnes. Exploration is finished at the Ovoid and Inco now plans to mine the area through an open pit mine.  
The Eastern Deeps, which lies under a series of hills covered with sparse trees and lush moss, has not yet been defined.
Recent calculations showed 75.5 million tonnes of ore, but the deposit was open in all directions.
To the west of the Ovoid, in the Western Extension, drills are uncovering another rich deposit. The mineralization was uncovered last April, after Diamond Fields Resources Inc, the owner of Voisey's Bay, accepted Inco's C$4.3 billion takeover offer.  
So far, drilling has defined 24.7 million tonnes, but the deposit is growing steadily.
Both the Eastern Deeps and the Western Extension need extremely deep holes to strike significant metal, and each major hole takes about three weeks to drill, said Soper.
More than 340 holes have been completed so far, with a total drilling meterage of more than 135,000 metres, Inco said in its recent mine and mill project description.
"Over half of our holes are good. They're mineralized," said 25-year-old geologist Mary Vaughan as she examined a new box of core samples just brought in from the Eastern Deeps.  
"It just blows you away. It's an explorationist's dream."
Archean Resources plans to keep drilling at a breakneck pace until its contract ends in December.
Inco has not said whether it will extend Archean's contract, but the Toronto-based company has promised to spend C$20 million over the next four years on exploration.
Only five percent of the property has been explored so far, but small exploration companies that have claims surrounding Inco's 495-square-kilometre site have not found anything significant.  
New resource calculations are expected within the next month, Rick Gill, spokesman for Inco subsidiary Voisey's Bay Nickel Co told Reuters in St. John's, Newfoundland.
Mining at Voisey's Bay is expected to last at least 20 years, with a concentrator on site handling 15,000 tonnes of ore a day. Mining will likely continue all year round, despite high winds, extremely cold temperatures and thick ice that locks in the site for a few months every winter.
"The information that we have at this time suggests it will be possible to operate year 'round with ice breaker support," said Gill.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416-941-8100
Revisions to Ivory Coast's coffee and cocoa auction system have been finalised in line with donor loan conditions and need only government blessing to come into effect, donor sources and exporters say.
"It could be done in 12 hours if the government wanted it," one exporter told Reuters on Tuesday.
Talks with the World Bank and the Caistab cocoa and coffee marketing board to boost transparency and prevent overbidding were concluded in September, he said.
"There will be a weighted allocation among the highest bidders in proportion to the size of each bid," said a banker close to the reforms.
The Caistab launched an electronic screen auction system to replace telephone dealing six months late in May to meet World Bank loan conditions, but it has been under review since July after complaints.
Bankers said the final touches needed ministerial approval before $45 million of a three-tier $150 million World Bank loan to Ivory Coast could be disbursed in mid-October.
"There will be changes in management rules when Yves-Marie Koissy (the new Caistab president) arrives but the management will have to be approved by the government rather than the Caistab," one told Reuters.
The exporter confirmed that the Caistab would award export contracts for the price and quantity bid by the five highest bidders, but bids would be downscaled pro-rata if they outstripped total sales slated for that session.
One source close to the market said the system had been flawed. "If you knew the quantity on sale at a particular time you place a high bid for the right amount and walk away with the lot. Apart from that it was a matter of speculation with the best information to hand or who you knew," said another.
Smaller exporters, cooperatives and unions say exporters with less financial clout in international markets were pushed aside by overbidding.
Caistab staff said Koissy, appointed in September but yet to finish his contract with the International Monetary Fund in Washington, was due in Ivory Coast on October 9-10.
This raised expectations that the 1996/97 cocoa marketing season would open as announced on October 15 despite some doubts in the market. Koissy would then leave again to return at the end of the month.
Exporters had complained that two European-backed firms had priced others out of the market earlier this year to win contracts under a rule that rewarded the highest bidders.
Under the existing system the Caistab offers to sell an undisclosed quantity of produce in two daily sessions.
The highest bidder in terms of price gets the quantity he requests at the second highest bid price provided there is enough produce on offer. Anything left over goes to the next highest biddder at his price and subsequent buyers thereafter.
Donor sources say $60 million of the $150 million loan have been granted already as the auction system was in place even though about 600,000 tonnes of the 1996/97 had been sold forward by telephone before the auction opening in May.
"We expect next year's crop to be entirely sold through the auction. This year the only condition was for it to be operational," a source close to the negotiations said.
He said a third, $45 million, part of the loan would be given in 1997 depending on the auction's success. London trader ED &amp; F Man in a September report put the total forward sale of 1996/97 crop by the end of August at 590,000 tonnes, 65,000 up on the previous year.
"I would say the figure, which is not really known, is closer to 500,000," said the source close to the negotiations. "Next year all the cocoa should be sold on the system."
($1=515 CFA francs)
--Abidjan Newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia is eyeing its second bad grain harvest in a row and will need imports despite a prediction by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin that output will be enough to meet demand, industry sources said on Tuesday.
"The sheer volume Russia will produce is enough to meet demand, but the quality is not," said specialist Andrei Sizov of the independent consultancy SovEcon Ltd.
"So it is fully possible that Russia will be forced to go to Western markets."
Chernomyrdin, in a speech to the Federation Council, the upper parliament house, forecast 1996 grain output of 77-78 million tonnes, "significantly higher" than last year's harvest of 63.4 million tonnes.
"This will allow us to provide the population with bread and bread products until the new (1997) harvest, to prepare enough concentrated feed grains and to increase grain reserves," a copy of Chernomyrdin's speech read.
But grain sources have said private-sector buying would still take place. "We have a shortage of first-class wheat," Georgy Zelinsky, general director of the agricultural trade association Khleboproduktprogress, told an industry seminar.
Sizov said piecemeal Russian imports of grain and flour in grain equivalent from all sources would rise to 5.0-6.0 million tonnes over the 1996/1997 crop year, from 4.5 million in 1995/1996 crop year.
Anatoly Manellya, head of agricultural forecasting at the Centre for Economic Trends, a think-tank set up by the government, said he thought imports could be even higher.
Agriculture Minister Viktor Khlystun has said Russia may import up to 4.5 million tonnes of maize and soymeal plus 500,000 tonnes of food wheat from the United States, Canada and/or Australia.
Zelinsky said domestic feed maize was in short supply, but maize for human consumption was not.
But industry sources said Western markets should not expect sudden announcements of big purchases. Rather, Russia would buy piecemeal in small lots, they said.
Sizov said imports of Western grain could be possible because Ukrainian flour supplies would slip due to very poor harvest outlook there.
"Russia has become the world's largest flour importer," he said, referring to imports which increased to one million tonnes in the 1995/1996 crop year, a rise of 25-30 times year-on-year.
Industry sources said the most likely buyers would be the dozen or so Russian commercial banks authorised to use U.S. government commodities credits.
Sources said Inkombank had used GSM-102 credits to buy up to 60,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat through Tradigrain for Russia's Far East for delivery to Vladivostok last spring.
Russia has used nearly all its reserves from the 1995 harvest, the worst in three decades. It survived largely due to carryover stocks from the 1994 harvest. These stocks were 8.8 million tonnes in July 1995 but were nearly zero in July 1996.
Sizov said the Federal Food Corporation, which buys for strategic needs including the army, had bought only 330,000 tonnes of grain by the end of September out of a targeted 4.5 million. September is peak buying time.
Czech consumer prices rose less than expected in September, but analysts said on Tuesday it remained unclear if the government can meet its full-year target.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said prices rose 0.3 percent in September versus analysts' expectations of a 0.6 percent rise.
The year-on-year inflation stood at 8.9 percent, down from 9.6 percent in August, when the monthly rise was also a low 0.2 percent. The sliding 12 month average inflation was 8.7 percent, after 8.6 percent in August.
"Our forecast for the whole year does not change, which is also because one month result does not change much in the average inflation rate," Martin Kupka of investment bank Patria Finance told Reuters.
"I don't think that the favourable developments in the last two months will be repeated in the months at the end of the year, which leads to our nine percent (average) inflation forecast for the whole year, not lower," he added.
The government had originally set its average inflation rate target for the whole year at eight percent, but recently raised it to 8.3 percent.
Analysts said that the low 0.2 percent monthly increase in the food, tobacco and beverages sector contributed to the overall result, but added this could have been caused by seasonal influences.
The CSU said prices in the heavily-weighted sector were held back by a 19 percent drop in potato prices, as well as a fall in vegetable and fruit prices.
Kupka welcomed the September result, but said that when more foodstuffs from the domestic harvest come to the market toward the end of the year, prices could be pushed up as farmers look to offset rising production costs.
Radek Maly of Prague's Citibank branch said he was pleased by the September figures, as he had expected a monthly increase of 0.5 percent.
"We have to wait for what the foodstuffs prices will do in the next months.But if they keep this pace, in line with the other basket components, we could get positive figures at the end of the year," Maly said.
"The year-on-year rate could get under nine percent at the year's end if the trend continues... maybe the moving average as well."
He added that other components of the basket also showed positive development, following low increases in producer prices in the last several months.
The CSU said prices in the leisure sector dropped by 1.1 percent in the month, thanks mainly to lower prices of holiday trips abroad. Education costs rose 3.9 percent due to an increase in fees at the beginning of the new school year.
Clothing prices rose 0.9 percent, housing climbed 0.3 percent, and transportation prices remained flat in the month.
The CSU in July raised its average inflation forecast for the whole year to 9.0 percent, and the cabinet based its 1997 budget calculations on an average inflation expectation of 8.6 percent.
Czech National Bank (CNB) Governor Josef Tosovsky on Friday said the central bank was committed to keeping the crown strong, despite some calls to depreciate the currency to help exports.
Speaking after a meeting with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus and top business executives, Tosovsky said the central bank would keep the crown within the current band against which it fixes the currency daily versus a mark/dollar basket.
"I said that we will try to keep the rate within the plus/minus 7.5 percent band (against the mark/dollar cross rate)," Tosovsky told reporters.
"I dismissed speculation that we would want to move the crown in some way outside the band," he added.
Analysts recently have been debating whether a devaluation of the crown might be needed to boost exports and help stem a ballooning current account deficit.
The trade deficit is threatening to send the current account shortfall to close to six percent of gross domestic product this year after about four percent last year.
Some have argued that a devaluation is required to help the country's goods remain competitive while wages are rising and the economy is transforming.
But others have said that the foreign capital inflow is l comfortably paying for the imports, and the current account deficit is not dangerous.
Tosovsky said a stable crown had served its purpose in regulating inflation, and a stronger crown would have positive effects on reforming Czech industry to make it more competitive.
He said a stronger crown "should help faster restructuring of our economy, to help increase the added-value faster...and to help to bring our country closer in productivity to the countries that we want to compare ourselves with."
The central bank fixes the crown daily within a band plus or minus 7.5 percent from the central parity of the mark/crown basket.
It has been fixing it recently at more than three percent above parity to match a modest net inflow from foreign crown buying.
After the meeting, Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus said the government would aim to provide more funds to export promotion agencies such as the Czech Export Bank, and its sister export insurance agency.
He said he had told business leaders it was necessary to lower their expectations of higher inflation because it had become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
"We cannot automatically appease the expectation of, let's say, nine percent inflation, and make that the basis for all further expenditure -- price and wage items," Klaus said.
He said this would be key to the government's position in collective bargaining. "We have to radically break this (inflation expectation). This must be the basis of this year's debates on collective agreements."
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Chinese police detained leading dissident Liu Xiaobo on Tuesday after searching his home and confiscating documents in the latest sign of a hardening attitude to the few dissidents still at liberty.
About seven or eight plainclothes and uniformed police, equipped with a search warrant, entered Liu's Beijing home at about 8.00 a.m. (0000 GMT), a relative said.
"They turned the whole place upside-down," she said.
After searching the house and taking books, photographs and documents and articles that Liu had written, police took him away, the relative said. "They took everything."
They gave no reason for the detention of Liu, a renowned literary critic who gained fame as a dissident during the 1989 student-led pro-democracy movement that was crushed by the military with heavy loss of life.
Police did not say when Liu might be released. "They gave no reason," the relative said. "They said to wait for notification."
Liu has been active in recent months, sending open letters to the government to demand press freedom and talks with the Dalai Lama on Tibet.
On September 30, Liu and veteran pro-democracy activist Wang Xizhe issued a statement urging China's communist authorities to honour a promise in 1945 to give people religious freedom, freedom of the press and speech and to form political parties and stage demonstrations.
In a bold move, the two demanded Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin be indicted, impeached and step down for violating the constitution for saying the People's Liberation Army was under the "absolute leadership" of the party instead of the state.
Wang Xizhe was still at liberty in southern Guangzhou on Tuesday.
Liu was last detained by police in 1995 after orchestrating several daring petitions to parliament by groups of dissidents and intellectuals in the early months of the year. He was held for more than seven months without formal charges until being released last January.
His detention comes a day after Chinese sources said another dissident, former student leader Wang Dan, faced a second jail term after prosecutors charged him recently with subversion.
Wang, 26, faces up to seven years in jail on charges of counter-revolutionary incitement -- or subversion. A court in Beijing was expected to deliver a verdict on Wang's case as early as this week, said one source.
Wang, who is believed to have worked with Liu on several daring petitions, was detained in May 1995 in the run-up to the sixth anniversary of the June 1989 military crackdown.
A former student of Beijing University, Wang served four years in jail for counter-revolutionary activities for his role as a leader of the 1989 demonstrations.
He had been expected to face charges since the court that sentenced veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng last December to 14 years for plotting to overthrow the government also implicated Wang in its verdict.
Liu and Wang are among a very few dissidents who are not serving jail terms or re-education through labour penalties.
A court in central Henan province last month sentenced student leader-turned-dissident Guo Haifeng to seven years in prison for hooliganism. Police had initially accused Guo of fraud but the prosecutor did not file charges against him, a human rights group said.
Beijing's top negotiator with rival Taipei sought on Tuesday to allay Taiwan's fears that China would swallow up the island if Taipei lifts a decades-old ban on direct trade and transport links between the two.
"We feel this kind of strange logic is very ridiculous," Tang Shubei, vice-chairman of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, said of Taiwan's concerns.
"We advocate that after reunification, 'you don't eat me up and I don't eat you up'," he told reporters in his Beijing office.
Taiwan has banned direct air and shipping links with China since Chiang Kai-shek's nationalist troops lost the civil war to Mao Zedong's communist army in 1949 and fled into exile in Taiwan. Taiwan allows indirect links through Hong Kong or third countries.
Taiwanese businessmen have poured more than $20 billion into China. Many of them have been clamouring for direct transport links, but Taiwan authorities are reluctant to lift the ban lest the island become an economic hostage to China.
Tang said scrapping the ban would help both sides and said Taiwan's losses would be greater than China's in the long run if it resisted direct links.
China unilaterally introduced a series of regulations in August to pave the way for direct shipping links with Taiwan. China first called on Taiwan to lift the ban 17 years ago.
The ban would in effect be scrapped in mid-1997 in any case when the British colony of Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule, Tang said, adding that Taiwanese aircraft and ships could continue to land and dock in Hong Kong.
He said the reunification of China and Taiwan would become a more glaring issue after the nearby Portuguese enclave of Macau reverts to Chinese rule in 1999.
"The Taiwan problem will stand out in front of us after Hong Kong's return in 1997 and Macau's return in 1999," Tang said.
Tang said time and patience were needed for China and Taiwan to reunify, but declined to spell out a timetable.
"Time is needed to resolve the Taiwan problem. We have adequate patience," he said, but urged Taiwan not to seek to declare independence. Beijing has threatened to invade if Taiwan declared independence.
He renewed an offer to hold political talks to end almost five decades of animosity. "Political differences must be resolved (through) political talks," Tang said.
But Tang said Taiwan must first abandon its attempt to break out of diplomatic isolation.
Beijing regards Taiwan as a rebel province and has sought to push the island into isolation.
Ties between Beijing and Taipei plunged after the landmark, private visit by Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui to the United States in June 1995 that China saw as a move to raise the island's international profile.
China's military conducted missile tests and war games off Taiwan before the island's first direct presidential elections last March, which Lee won by a landslide.
Last week, China accused Taiwan of standing in the way of reunification by creating obstacles to economic and trade cooperation, saying the island was "squashing its own feet with a rock" by refusing to end the ban.
China on Tuesday accused Japan of taking an irresponsible approach to a bitter sovereignty dispute over a group of uninhabited East China Sea islands, saying Tokyo must take action to avoid further damaging ties.
A festering row over the islands, known in China as the Diaoyus and in Japan as the Senkakus, has flared in recent months after Japanese rightwingers moved to buttress Tokyo's claim by building a lighthouse on one of the group.
"The Japanese government has taken very irresponsible actions, particularly by encouraging illegal landings on the Diaoyu islands by rightwing groups, hurting Sino-Japanese relations," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said.
Tokyo should take action to prevent further damage to ties, Shen told a news briefing in Beijing.
Tension over the potentially resource-rich islands soared on Monday when Hong Kong and Taiwan activists pierced a Japanese cordon and planted Chinese and Taiwan flags on one of the islets, claimed by Tokyo and by both Beijing and its arch-rival Taipei.
The brief landings by a handful of the around 300 Hong Kong and Taiwan protesters aboard a 50-boat flotilla were the first time activists had managed to break Japan's maritime blockade.
An earlier attempt ended in failure when Hong Kong activist David Chan drowned after leaping into stormy waters to protest Tokyo's control of the group. A Japanese coastguard medical team failed to revive Chan but saved the life of a fellow protester.
Japan has lamented what it calls the illegal landings and has not ruled out arresting future landing parties. A foreign ministry spokesman said on Tuesday that Tokyo had asked China and Taiwan to prevent further attempts to land on the islands.
Chinese spokesman Shen said Japan was responsible for the revival of the row over ownership of the islands, which Beijing says it has claimed for centuries.
Tokyo's claim dates to 1895 when it defeated imperial China in a war and seized control of a number of Chinese territories.
"The Japanese government didn't take any action to stop the damaging of Sino-Japanese ties by rightwing groups who offended against Chinese sovereignty," Shen said. "This has aroused the strong anger of the Chinese people.
"The will of the people cannot be bullied," he said.
Gains by Japanese rightwing forces would force victims of past Japanese aggression in Asia to question the future role Tokyo would play in the region, he said.
Outrage over the Japanese rightwingers' construction of the makeshift lighthouse on the islands has united nationalist sentiment in China, political rival Taiwan and the British colony of Hong Kong, which reverts to Beijing rule next year.
Shen's accusations of Japanese irresponsibility represented some of China's strongest diplomatic language yet in a dispute that both Beijing and Tokyo have sought to put behind them.
Analysts say China has been forced to walk a diplomatic fine line between retaining its nationalist credentials and damaging ties with a vital economic partner.
Shen said China would strengthen security to protect its citizens after Beijing's de facto embassy in Hong Kong reported receiving a threatening letter from Japanese righwingers.
"The Chinese side will take action at home to strengthen our security," he said, adding that he hoped other "relevant" countries would also protect Chinese citizens.
China has emerged from the cocoon of last week's National Day celebrations to swoop on the world's soybean and soymeal markets, snapping up a total of between 600,000 and 800,000 tonnes, traders said on Tuesday.
One trader in the region took the credit for a full half of 800,000 tonnes of beans and meal business that he said had been done with Chinese buyers in the past four trading days.
"There has been a chunk of business going on," he said.
"I guess total meal and beans done since last Wednesday is 800,000 tonnes, with 200,000 to 300,000 of it beans and 500,000 to 600,000 tonnes of it meal," he said.
Chinese buyers jumped into the market as soon as the National Day holiday was over, he said, expressing his surprise at how fast the usually cautious Chinese reacted to price falls.
China celebrated the 47th anniversary of the founding of the communist-ruled People's Republic on October 1 with an extended public holiday that saw government, business and trade closed for three weekdays last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
During that time, soy product prices fell significantly on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) on trade concerns that the U.S. crop would be higher than previously thought.
Talk of Chinese interest has helped CBOT values move up a little in the past week.
Reports that China last week bought between 120,000 and 150,000 tonnes of soymeal for November/December delivery from the United States, South America and India helped propel CBOT soy product futures higher on Monday. Soymeal was $2.10 per tonne higher to $0.10 lower, with October up $2.10 at $246.20 a tonne.
The price falls coincided with one of China's peak buying periods for soybeans, soybean meal and vegetable oil.
The regional trading source claiming half the recent business as his own said he sold meal at $300 c&amp;f (cost and freight) and beans at $5 to $10 a tonne above that.
The soybeans were of U.S. origin, he said, meal spread between the United States and South America. Shipments would begin in October/November for December/January arrival.
Buyers were numerous, he said, and all the purchases were for consumption.
While the other half of the business could not be immediately confirmed, one other Asian trader said he believed a total of 600,000 tonnes of beans and meal business had been done with China since the National Day break.
Chinese buyers were looking for low protein meal at $290 a tonne, and beans at between $290 and $300 a tonne, he said.
"I don't think this price will fly, but as usual PRC buyers start off low and see how low they can get it," he said.
Meal business concluded since last Wednesday was 400,000 to 500,000 tonnes, he said, with beans 100,000 to 200,000 tonnes.
Competitive freight rates in a tight market were helping keep c&amp;f values down, trading sources said, adding vessels could be found at $18 to $20 a tonne from the United States to China.
China had been expected to buy up to 500,000 tonnes of soybeans before December, and up to 400,000 tonnes after March 1997, a Chinese trader said.
"That's to make sure they have enough in stock before new-crop meal comes into the market, which will be January at the earliest. And then enough in stock before Chinese New Year (in February 1997)," he said.
"So we're right on target," he said.
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843 6470
Strong demand for light trucks and relatively few production headaches will boost the Big Three U.S. automakers' combined profits to nearly $2 billion for the third quarter, exceeding year-ago results by a healthy margin, analysts said Tuesday.
The quarter is traditionally the weakest of the year with summer vacations and model changeovers, but Chrysler Corp. and Ford Motor Co., are expected to post strong gains from minivan and truck output.
General Motors Corp.'s earnings were held back by a significant increase in incentives, analysts said.
In the third quarter of 1995, the three automakers earned $1.35 billion.
"It'll be a good quarter overall for the Big Three," said Dean Witter Reynolds Inc auto analyst Kenneth Blaschke. "The issue that remains is how long the strike in Canada against GM will last."
GM, the nation's largest automaker, on Oct. 15 is expected to report third quarter net income of about $850 million, or $1.02 a share, according to the First Call financial information service.
The results include an after-tax gain of $250 million, or 33 cents a share from the reversal of the automaker's decision to close its Wilmington, Del., plant and build a new Saturn model there at the end of the decade.
In the year-ago period, GM earned $642 million, or 42 cents a share. The third quarter 1995 results also included $246 million in earnings from Electronic Data Systems Corp., the computer services unit that the automaker spun off in June after 12 years of ownership.
Burnham Securities auto analyst David Healy said GM's worldwide car and truck production rose 11 percent in the third quarter over a year ago. But a heavier mix of less-expensive vehicles and a $230 increase in incentives per vehicle squeezed GM's profit margins, resulting in a small pretax loss in North America during the period.
On an operating basis, Ford's third quarter profits, are expected to increase 78 percent to $637 million, or 51 cents a share, from $357 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier, marking the biggest rebound of the Big Three. Ford results are scheduled for release on Oct. 16.
The strength at Detroit's No. 2 automaker largely rides on the fact that it is not paying the enormous product launch costs for the Taurus sedan and F-Series pickup truck that dragged down year-ago results.
Ford also is beginning to reap profits from the F-Series, and the Expedition full-size sport utility vehicle, which have brightened the automaker's future outlook.
"We think Ford's new products will enable it to gain an increased share going forward, and as a result Ford's earnings momentum should continue," Blaschke said.
Ford's profits would be even better had it not been for losses in Brazil and Argentina that the automaker warned analysts about in September.
Ford is scambling to put its Fiesta small car into production in Brazil following the breakup of the company's Autolatina joint venture with Volkswagen AG in 1995.
Chrysler's profits for the July-September period, scheduled for release Oct. 14, are expected to increase 41 percent to about $500 million, or 69 cents a share, from $354 million, or 48 cents, a year earlier.
No. 3 Chrysler also experienced launch problems in the year-ago period in its all-important minivan product lines.
This year, the company is churning out minivans and has raised its share of the U.S. vehicle market to record levels. The launch glitches have not returned, as the company's new Dodge Dakota compact pickup truck is proceeding ahead of schedule, analysts said.
"Chrysler has everthing going for it right now and it should be reflected in the earnings," said Bear Stearns &amp; Co. auto analyst Nicholas Lobocarro, who added that he would not be surprised if Chrysler's results exceeded Wall Street estimates.
New Corp. Ltd. said Tuesday that its Fox News division will file suit Wednesday in U.S. District Court here against Time Warner Inc., Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and its Chairman Ted Turner, alleging antitrust violations.
News Corp., which is led by media mogul Rupert Murdoch, said the suit will allege that an antitrust conspiracy to block Fox News Channel in New York City has taken place prior to the still-to-be consummated merger.
"The suit will allege that the conspiracy has taken place prior to the still-to-be-consummated merger," Arthur Siskind, News Corp. Group General Counsel, said in a brief statement. "The suit also charges Time Warner with breach of contract and fraud in reneging on its agreement to carry Fox News in New York City."
Locked in a bitter campaign to win New York channel space for its Fox News service, News Corp. on Monday urged city officials to void cable-TV franchises with Time Warner Inc.
News Corp. executives told city officials at a hearing that the pending merger of Time Warner and Turner constituted a change of control of Time Warner's cable systems in New York City and allowed early rebidding for the valuable franchises.
Time Warner holds city cable-television franchises serving 1.2 millions New Yorkers that are due to expire in 1998.
Time Warner, which denies the merger constitutes a change in management control, has refused to carry the 24-hour Fox News service and instead carries two Cable News Network services owned by Turner, and MSNBC, a joint venture of General Electric Co.'s NBC and Microsoft Corp.
Turner and Time Warner are expected to merge on Thursday, creating the world's biggest media organisation. Turner Chairman Ted Turner will become vice chairman of the new company and will be the company's biggest shareholder.
Time Warner is also opposing a proposal backed by New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani that Fox News be carried on a city-owned channel known as CrossWalks.
Giulani has said that wide dissemination of Fox News throughout New York was important since it was the only all-news channel based within the city and was the source of hundreds of jobs.
The city's Franchise Concession and Review Committee is scheduled to vote Wednesday on whether or not the Turner-Time Warner deal should prompt a review of the Time Warner franchises.
Time Warner executive Richard Aurelio said Monday that 90 percent of the regulators overseeing Time Warner's cable operations, the second largest in the United States, had passed without objection on the Turner-Time Warner merger.
McDonald's Corp. said Tuesday it created a new position of chairman of its U.S. operations, in a move analysts said was sparked by intense competition and soft sales from existing stores in the domestic market.
McDonald's named Jack Greenberg, 54, to the new post of chairman, McDonald's U.S.A. He remains vice chairman of the Oak Brook, Ill.-based company, but will relinquish the chief financial officer post.
Greenberg will continue to report to Michael Quinlan, McDonald's chairman.
"The signal they are trying to send is, 'we clearly recognise that we have problems in the U.S. and we are going to do something about it'," NatWest Securities analyst Damon Brundage said of Greenberg's appointment.
Reflecting the mature and intensely competitive U.S. market, analysts said they expected McDonald's third-quarter same store sales will be down compared with a year ago. Same store data measure sales from units open at least a year.
"They have not had a single positive month in the U.S. this year," Brundage said of its same store sales. McDonald's does not disclose its same store sales.
"Margins have been under pressure for over a year in the U.S.," added Schroder Wertheim analyst Wayne Daniels.
Greenberg's new post indicates that McDonald's was not pleased with the direction of its domestic business, Daniels said. "They are trying to shake things up and put a little more focus on being aggressive in responding to the competition," he added.
The company has been introducing new offerings such as its Arch Deluxe hamburger earlier this year and the recent launch of Deluxe Grilled Chicken, Fish Filet and Crispy Chicken sandwiches.
McDonald's said Greenberg's appointment was aimed at strengthening U.S. management.
"While these changes are evolutionary, they will bring more management firepower where we need it, both for the short and long-term," Quinlan said in a statement.
As part of the management changes, Edward Rensi, McDonald's U.S.A president, will report to Greenberg. But Greenberg was quick to say he and Rensi have a good working relationship.
"Ed and I are good friends. We work well together. He's very enthusiastic about this," Greenberg said in a telephone interview. "We all want this business to do well."
Despite the pressure in the United States, McDonald's international business, which accounts for more than half of its operating income, continues to be strong, analysts said.
"International is a wide-open growth opportunity for McDonald's," Daniels said.
International profit growth is expected to contribute to an expected 12 percent gain in earnings for McDonald's overall in the third quarter, according to analyst estimates.
Given the intense competition between McDonald's, Wendy's International Inc. and Grand Metropolitan Plc.'s Burger King, Greenberg faces a tough job as head of the U.S. operations, analysts said.
"He is going to parachute into ... what looks to be one of the most challenging operating roles in the U.S. fast-food restaurant business," Brundage said.
Greenberg, 54, said he believed McDonald's was well positioned to compete in the domestic market.
"We've got more locations than anybody else. We've got the most powerful brand in the world... We've got the largest marketing budget. We've got enormous purchasing power," he added.
McDonald's operates more than 19,200 restaurants worldwide, including about 12,000 in the United States.
While Greenberg joined McDonald's in 1982 as chief financial officer, he said he has field experience with its restaurants. "I spent a year in the field in restaurants and became a regional manager for a year as well," Greenberg said.
In other management moves, McDonald's also named Michael Conley, currently senior vice president and controller, as chief financial officer, succeeding Greenberg.
Imperial Tobacco Group will split from conglomerate Hanson Plc on October 1 as one of the most efficient players in its sector, but while the new chief talks of export-led growth, the outlook is clouded by the threat of litigation against tobacco firms.
Imperial is Britain's second biggest tobacco firm after B.A.T Industries and its brands include Embassy, John Player Special and Superkings cigarettes as well as Panama and Castella cigars.
It is one of four arms of the mighty Hanson conglomerate being spun off into separate floated companies to unlock value.
In the ten years since Hanson took over Imperial, it has slashed costs, cut its brands to 33 from 150 and raised productivity by 195 percent. 1995 profits were 348 million pounds on 3.6 billion of sales.
But analysts fear that despite Imperial's impressive track record, marking it as the comeback kid of the tobbaco industry, its shares could face a rough ride once listed in London.
This week saw tobacco stocks hit by a backlash in the United States, with fresh litigation plus tough new curbs from U.S. President Bill Clinton to regulate the industry.
So far, BAT Industries has borne the brunt. But some analysts believe it is only a matter of time before the U.S. scenario widens its impact and is repeated across the Atlantic.
"If it happens in the U.S. it's subsequently followed in other countries," said Zafar Khan, analyst at Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull.
"Imperial could have been a ripe international takeover candidate. But the litigation threat means a group buying a tobacco company would have a tough time selling the idea to shareholders now," he said.
UBS analysts agree that the threat of legal action is enough to dampen the company's outlook.
But they warn of another possible dampener on the stock when Imperial starts trading - its heavy reliance on Britain, largely seen as a mature market. Britain accounts for 87 percent of profits, say analysts.
Imperial has already committed itself to overseas expansion, but there are fears that it will have a tough time muscling in on the U.S. giants which have already made inroads into the markets of tomorrow - India, China and the Far East.
"We see investor concerns on litigation risk combined with the uncertain outlook in the key UK market as implying a 20-30 percent PE (price earnings) discount to the UK average." This assumes a prospective PE of 9.9 times, UBS said in a note.
It has given Hanson a total break-up value of 164 pence, in a market range of 150 to 200 pence per share. Hanson shares were down 2 1/2 pence at 159 1/2 by 1033 GMT Friday.
UBS specifically values the Imperial constituent at 39 pence per share or 2.03 billion pounds ($3.14 billion).
However, another investment analyst who declined to be named, said he was more upbeat on Imperial's prospects.
"It's a clean business. It could become a takeover target and it's also very cash generative," he said.
He values Imperial at 37 pence in a total Hanson break-up valuation of 187 pence per share.
There is some upside to the Imperial story. Apart from being viewed as a highly efficient player and being the second biggest UK tobacco company with 38 percent of the market, it is also poised to try and tap the vast emerging markets.
Gareth Davis (corrects from Nigel Davis), Imperial's chief executive who joined the company straight from university, told the London-based Evening Standard newspaper earlier this week that he believed the group would continue to build up exports to Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.
"Worldwide this industry is buoyant," he said.
Imperial has said in earlier mission statements that it will expand abroad through "organic growth and acquisition."
But with 1.1 billion pounds in debt as part of its Hanson inheritance, industry watchers wonder just how it will finance its much needed expansion. ($1=.6458 Pound)
Peter Jarvis, chief executive of brewer to leisure group Whitbread Plc, said the company is seeing fairly strong growth in consumer spending on leisure.
Jarvis said although consumer spending has been positive for the last 12 months, it was masked somewhat by expenditure on the National Lottery which took out 5.0 billion stg from the economy last year, equal to about 5.0 percent of total leisure spending in Britain.
"So all of the natural growth there would have been last year was missing," he told Reuters in an interview.  
"So the feelgood factor was not there and the main reason was the diversion of expenditure into the Lottery. But the comparables now don't have the Lottery effect in and we have got back into quite strong growth in leisure expenditure," he said.
The improvement was evident across all areas of its activity although Jarvis was especially encouraged by the hotels business.
"The hotel market in this country is very buoyant. The growth in expenditure in hotels far outstrips growth in new accomodation. And that is about more travel, more tourism, more retired people, more affluent retired people."  
Whitbread acquired health and sports club group David Lloyd Leisure for about 200 million stg and a chain of 16 Marriot hotels in Britain for about 185 million last August.
"We are making very good progress in our hotel business. Our profits are substantially ahead of last year and our customers are recognising the improvements that have been made to our hotels through joining up with Marriot," he said.
"The performance of the Marriot hotels we bought has improved against last year as well as the performance of Whitbread hotels that have been transferred to Marriot."  
Whitbread opened about 45 new budget hotels called Travel Inns during the year to March 2 and Jarvis said they this part of the hotels arm was performing well. "The occupancy levels we are getting in our budget hotels now are higher than they have ever been since we started out in this business," Jarvis said.
He said the Marriot company would contribute substantially to the earnings of Whitbread, even after interest payments.
"If we paid 185 million for Marriot, and you can work out the interest, I am saying we will make many millions beyond that in the current year. And this is the first full year we have had Marriot," he said.  
"Next year David Lloyd will be in that kind of position and I think that Pelican will be as well," he added.
Whitbread announced an agreed 133 million stg bid for the Pelican Group of cafes in the UK in July.
"This year if you take Marriot and you take our Travel Inns we will make broadly as much money in hotels as we make in beer," Jarvis said.
The beer company reported operating profit of 44.9 million stg in 1995/96, a rise of some 4.5 million on the previous year, but just 15 percent of the company's total operating profit.  
Whitbread's restaurants and inns division, which includes Marriot hotels, reported trading profit of 88.3 million up from 66.0 million.
The company is due to report half-year results on November 5.
Heartport Inc leaped almost a year ahead of its scheduled plan for developing a new heart surgery technology thanks to an earlier-than-expected U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval granted on Monday.
As a result, analysts who had looked for Heartport to turn its first profit in 1999 are now talking about 1998.
For its part, the company plans a U.S. launch of its port-access surgical system in mid-1997. "That's about a year earlier than we had previously expected," said chief executive Dr. Wesley Sterman in an interview with Reuters.  
Between now and then, Heartport plans to equip its six lead clinical training centers with port-access systems.
"We're targetting having 30 surgical teams trained by the end of the year, then drastically increasing our training capabilities over the next six to 12 months," Sterman said.
"Most analysts were looking at us crossing over (to profitability) in 1999. So maybe you could argue now that it could come in 1998, but I don't know that we would support that. I'm just saying what the analysts are doing," he said.
Shares in Heartport slipped 2 to 34-1/2 on Tuesday afer soaring as much as 7 on Monday after the FDA approval.  
Several medical technology firms are chasing the young market for minimally invasive heart surgery, in which surgeons work through small holes in the chest, instead of by cutting the chest open. Alone among potential rivals, Heartport is focused on a technique that stops the heart and puts the patient on a heart-lung bypass circuit like those used today in traditional open-heart surgery.
Other companies, such as CardioThoracic Systems Inc and Medtronic Inc, are focused on beating-heart techniques that eliminate heart-lung bypass. U.S. Surgical Corp is also working in the field.
By strengthening its management team with the new post of chairman of its domestic business, McDonald's Corp is attempting to address head-on its problems in the intensely competitive U.S. market.
"The signal they are trying to send is, 'we clearly recognize that we have problems in the U.S. and we are going to do something about it'," NatWest Securities analyst Damon Brundage said.
Those problems include declining same store sales in the mature and intensely competitive U.S. market, analysts said.  
Analysts said they expect McDonald's third-quarter same store sales to be down compared with a year ago.
"They have not had a single positive month in the U.S. this year," Brundage said. McDonald's does not disclose same store data measuring sales from units open at least a year.
"Margins have been under pressure for over a year in the U.S.," added Schroder Wertheim analyst Wayne Daniels.
Naming Jack Greenberg, who remains vice chairman of the company, as chairman of McDonald's U.S.A. indicates the fast-food giant is not pleased with the direction of its domestic business, Daniels said.  
"They are trying to shake things up and put a little more focus on being aggressive in responding to the competition," Daniels added.
As part of the management changes, Edward Rensi, McDonald's U.S.A president, will report to Greenberg.
"Ed and I are good friends. We work well together. He's very enthusiastic about this," Greenberg said in a telephone interview. "We all want this business to do well."
Despite the pressure in the United States, McDonald's international business, which accounts for more than half of its operating income, continues to be strong, analysts said.  
"International is a wide-open growth opportunity for McDonald's," Daniels said.
Given the intense competition between McDonald's, Wendy's International Inc and Grand Metropolitan plc's Burger King, Greenberg faces a tough job as head of the U.S. operations, analysts said.
"He is going to parachute into...what looks to be one of the most challenging operating roles in the U.S. fast-food restaurant business," Brundage said.
But Greenberg, 54, said he believes McDonald's is well positioned to compete in the U.S. market. "We've got more locations than anybody else. We've got the most powerful brand in the world...We've got the largest marketing budget. We've got enormous purchasing power," he added.
McDonald's operates more than 19,200 restaurants worldwide, including about 12,000 in the United States.
While Greenberg joined McDonald's in 1982 as chief financial officer, he said he has field experience with its restaurants. "I spent a year in the field in restaurants and became a regional manager for a year as well," Greenberg said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Toronto stocks ended firmer in brisk dealings on Friday, adding another 10 points to the week's gains of 90 points and bringing the key 300 index closer to breaking its all-time high.
"We just refuse to move lower," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie. "We're just ignoring all the bad news." The Toronto Stock Exchange key 300 Composite Index rose 10.9 points to end at 5193.0 points on Friday.
The TSE 300 has recovered from its lows in July and is climbing towards its all-time high of 5248.37 points reached in late May.
The index may test the high next week, Beattie said.
On Thursday Canada's central bank cut short-term interest rates by 25 basis points, easing the key bank rate to 4.25 percent. This will help keep up interest in Toronto's important bank issues, analysts have said.
During the week, investors picked up the heavily weighted gold stocks as gold prices edged closer to the psychological high of US$400 on New York's COMEX, analysts have said.
Canadian forestry products were hot today with U.S. market players as well, said ScotiaMcLeod's director of investment research Jim Doak.
Nine of Toronto's 14 sub-indices rose, led by golds, forestry products, base metals and transports. Falling sectors included media issues, oils and utilities.
Advancing stocks outnumbered declining ones 481 to 371, while 310 traded flat.
Golds were among the most actively traded issues. Meridian Gold Inc. led the pack, rising C0.30 to C$6.20 on more than two million shares. It topped Toronto's most actives list.
Forestry products firm MacMillan Bloedel Ltd. gained C0.30 to C$20.00 in heavy trading.
Fertilizer firm Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. rose C$2.00 to C$106.00 on strong turnover.
Most banks in the U.S. Midwest are expected to post third quarter earnings gains of 10 percent or more as the strong economy continues to generate loan growth, cost-cutting programs show results and credit quality remains reasonably sound.
"It looks like credit quality trends should hold up very well," said Michael Ancell, banking analyst at Edward D. Jones. He expects the banks he follows to have average earnings gains of 11 percent.  
For most of the year, analysts who follow banks have been waiting to see deterioration in credit quality, especially in credit card loans.
But while some banks, like First Chicago NBD, showed a higher charge-off rate in credit card receivables in the second quarter, a wider wave of loan quality problems has yet to appear, analysts said.
"I don't see large increases in (loan loss) provision," said James Schutz, banking analyst at Chicago Corp.  
Many banks have also been aggressively cutting costs, which should help third quarter results. Analysts pointed to Milwaukee-based Firstar Corp as one bank that could benefit from an aggressive cost-cutting plan.
Others point to banks that have been generating fee revenue, such as Northern Trust Corp and Norwest Corp, as also primed for strong gains.  
"Most people are working very hard at expense controls," said Thomas Maier, banking analyst at EVEREN Securities. "I'm more in mind at looking more favorably at those banks that are strong revenue growers. Ultimately, you've got to sell product, in any business."
Another factor helping gains in earnings per share is stock buyback programs, with many banks aggressively repurchasing their stock. First Bank System Inc, which announced a plan earlier this year to repurchase 25 million shares, was seen by analysts as one of the most aggressive on this front.  
Meanwhile, analysts said the 10 percent pace of earnings gains should continue into next year.
"Even though the credit quality cycle is not getting any better, it certainly is not getting any worse at any kind of a rapid pace," said Ben Crabtree, analyst at Dain Bosworth.
Following are third quarter earnings estimates and actual earnings reported a year earlier, according to First Call:
BANK				1996		    1995
----			     ----		    ----
Banc One Corp		   $0.82		   $0.75
Boatmen's Bancshares Inc   $0.94		   $0.86
Commerce Bancshares Inc    $0.81		   $0.72
Fifth Third Bancorp	  $0.83		   $0.73
Firstar Corp		    $1.00		   $0.88
First Bank System	     $1.21		   $1.06
First Chicago NBD	     $1.09		   $1.06
KeyCorp			   $0.95		   $0.90
Marshall and Ilsley Corp   $0.52		   $0.48
Mercantile Bancorp Inc	$0.98		   $1.02
Northern Trust		 $1.12		   $0.98
Norwest			   $0.79		   $0.69
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
Stiff competition and high ingredient costs will likely result in flat to lower earnings for several U.S. food companies that will soon report quarterly results.
Quaker Oats Co is expected to report flat earnings for the third quarter as its Snapple beverage line continues to be a drag on the company. "We're looking for a flattish quarter and that will be once more due to the very heavy spending behind Snapple and probably a double-digit (volume) decline for Snapple," Goldman Sachs analyst Nomi Ghez said.  
Last month, Quaker said a new promotional campaign for Snapple, which included a nationwide sampling effort, came too late to reap any financial benefits for this year. Snapple accounts for about 10 percent of Quaker's annual sales.
Cereal giant Kellogg Co said recently it projects earnings for the third quarter will be about 20 percent below last year due to competitors' sales promotions.
Stiff competition in the cereal aisle is expected to result in a loss in the fiscal fourth quarter for Ralcorp Holdings Inc, which makes private label products.  
Lower profit margins, partly due to higher cattle costs, likely will result in a decline in third quarter earnings for meat processor IBP Inc, analysts said. Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette analyst William Leach said IBP's meat export sales are expected to be lower in the quarter.
CPC International Inc is projected to report only a modest rise in its third quarter earnings due to high corn prices that hurt its milling business, analysts said.
"If it weren't for the corn refining business, (CPC's) profits would be up a lot more," Schroder Wertheim analyst Robert Cummins said.  
Ghez of Goldman Sachs said she expects a drop in grain prices will bring CPC back to double-digit earnings growth in the fourth quarter.
Also on the positive side, Sara Lee Corp, a food and consumer products company with businesses from meat to pantyhose, is expected to report double-digit earnings growth for its fiscal first quarter. These results will reflect Sara Lee's focus on higher margin products, Oppenheimer analyst Leslie McCall said.
However, profit margins for Sara Lee's packaged meats business were under pressure in the quarter, added SBC Warburg
analyst Chris Jakubik.
Company     Qtr   First Call Mean estimate  Yr-Ago EPS
CPC	   Q3	     $1.00 a share	 $0.96
IBP	   Q3	     $0.53		   $0.88
Kellogg     Q3	     $0.85		   $1.05
Quaker Oats Q3	     $0.46		   $0.45
Ralcorp     Q4     loss  $0.19	 profit  $0.09
Sara Lee    Q1	     $0.41		   $0.36
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Shares on most central and eastern European bourses gained ground this week though there were some indications the upturn may be short-lived.
Exchanges in Prague, Warsaw, Budapest, Bratislava and Bucharest all rose, while Zagreb and Sofia traded mixed. Ljubljana was the one gray cloud, posting slight losses.
The Central European Share Index (CESI) which reflects the price movements of 50 selected Czech, Polish and Hungarian shares, firmed 66.11 points.
PRAGUE
Czech share prices were mostly steady on the Prague Stock Exchange throughout the week, with little movement expected soon as the holiday season slowly winds up.
The PX50 index edged up 3.6 points from Monday to close at 568.6 on Thursday.
Leading trading were SPT Telecom and Komercni Banka, though SPT's movements were largely characterised as "accounting procedures" that saw the issue gain as much as 102 crowns one session, only to lose the same amount the following day.
"The final price (of SPT) was not the real market price, but because average prices are not used for the close, it gives an artificial final number," said Jan Sykora of Wood and Company. SPT closed on Thursday at 3,340 crowns.
Dealers have long-complained that some market participants consistently manipulate prices on the bourse, a fact that to cloud foreign investor perceptions of the Czech market.
WARSAW
Polish shares on Thursday rose for the sixth consecutive session but analysts said stronger selling after price-fixing showed the market was losing steam and made it unclear if the growth trend would continue.
"It seems we now have a tug-of-war between buyers and sellers," said Krzysztof Rogalski, an analyst at Bank Staropolski SA brokerage.
But some analysts said a real growth trend had already begun, sparked by firms releasing better July earnings at the start of the week. The WIG index closed at 13,597.4 points, up 892.7 points or 7.0 percent from last Friday's close.
Analysts said recent systematic gains in higher turnovers by several large-cap stocks was a good sign that could help return the market toward this year's July 5, 14,282.2-point high next week.
BUDAPEST
Prices rose at both of this week's sessions as market participants returned after holidays on Monday and Tuesday.
The rest of the market strengthened as investors were cheered because the U.S. Federal Reserve had left interest rates steady.
"It's certainly due to the fact the U.S. investors put money into the east European emerging markets," Peter Haas of Postabank Securities said. "Optimism seems to have spread over investors after the danger of a rate hike was eliminated."
The BUX index closed on Thursday at 3,370.23, up 198.79 points over last Friday.
BRATISLAVA
The Bratislava Stock Exchange (BSE) saw a week of listless holiday trading, with the ongoing struggle for strategic control over the country's largest investment fund, VUB Kupon, dominating floor trading.
The 12-share SAX index posted several year-highs over the week, peaking at 226.34 points on Tuesday, and closing at 223.75 points on Thursday, slightly firmer from Monday's open.
"This week was a transparent example, showing how the index is often far off from real trends on the market," Dusan Sykora of ING Barings said. "The SAX has been reaching top levels, while only a few trades were concluded on the bourse on low volumes," he added.
SOFIA
No corporate issues traded for a third week in a row on the Bulgarian stock market as investors turnede their attention to treasuries and foreign currency.
Only the Sofia Stock Exchange (SSE) operated this week after the Bulgarian Stock Exchange (BSE) went into a summer recess on August 5. The BSE will resume trading on September 2.
The 13-share Reuter All Bulgaria Stock Exchange Index (RABSI) closed at 41.31 points, unchanged from last Thursday.
BUCHAREST
Romanian share prices posted gains this week on the back of healthy half-year earnings reports by several firms but trading, dominated by retail investors, was modest in volume.
Overall turnover fell by almost 30 million lei to 68.5 million on Thursday.
The unofficial VAB Index -- a value-weighted index of all stocks computed by Vanguard SA securities -- closed at 371 points, 8.20 points or 3.5 percent up on the week. Its base was 1,000 points when it was created last November.
ZAGREB
Croatian stocks were mixed though the summer lull seemed to be nearing an end as big buyers became more active, boosting prices and prompting broker predictions of a steady rise in the weeks to come.
Most active was Zagrebacka Banka which gained 130 kuna since last Tuesday, but other companies including foodprocessor Podravka also registered an increase of prices.
LJUBLJANA
In Ljubljana, share prices, eased 0.4 percent as the SBI index fell 4.31 points to 980.60.
Financial consultancy Finmedia was the leading decliner, falling 4.9 percent, while the biggest gainer were prefered shares of bank Dolenjska banka, firming 10.4 percent.
		    CLOSE     WEEK'S  CHANGE    1996 HIGH  1996 LOW
		    AUG 22	NET     PCT
 CESI	   1,495.58    +66.11   +4.62    1,483.76     959.24
 PRAGUE	   568.6	+3.6    +0.64	586.6	425.9
 WARSAW	13,597.4    +892.7    +7.0    14,282.2    7,725.2
 BUDAPEST     3,370.23   +198.79   +6.27    3,380.53   1,557.91
 BRATISLAVA     223.75     +0.51   +0.23	226.34     150.4
 SOFIA	     41.31	0.00   +0.00	 55.48	41.05
 LJUBLJANA	910.74     -4.31   -0.47    1,589.18     910.74
All-time high: CESI 1,483.76 (July 5/1996); SBI 1,598.02 (June 28/1994); WIG 20,760.3 (March 8/1994); BUX 3,380.53 (July 8/1996); PX50 1,002.4 (April 7/1994); RABSI 112.2 (April 27/1994); SAX 402.3 (Feb/1994).
Shares in debt-mired Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel SA fell on Tuesday after they were requoted following a week's suspension amid disappointment over terms of its restructuring with creditor banks.
The troubled Anglo-French company unveiled on Monday details of the refinancing its 69.6 billion francs ($13.50 billion) of junior-ranked bank debt after a year of complex negotiations with bank lenders.
The shares closed down 8.74 percent at 8.35 francs on heavy volume of 20 million shares. They were at 9.15 francs when they were suspended on September 30 in the runup to the debt deal.
Analyst Jean Borgeix at broker Pinatton said the stock market was disappointed with the 10.40 franc price that banks will be getting new Eurotunnel shares at as part of an eight billion franc equity-for-debt deal.
The market had been looking for a conversion price of between 12-15 francs per share, he said.
Current shareholders also stand to effectively "lose" 30 percent of Eurotunnel's future cashflow, as this is the percentage earmarked for paying the "stabilisation notes" it would issue to banks in return for an interest-free credit line.
The company negotiated the right to issue the stabilisation notes in case it fell short of cash to meet interest payments. It can issue up to 14.8 billion francs of the notes.
Factoring in that loss of future cashflow gave the shares a present value of around 8.5 francs a share.
Another French analyst said: "The restructuring assures the industrial viability of the project, even though the shares remain a risky investment."
The debt deal looked good on paper and the zero-interest stabilisation notes provided Eurotunnel with a last line of defence if its cash failed to meet interest payments, he said.
A trader at a major U.S. brokerage in Paris said the share price suffered from the dilution of equity due to the debt pact.
The restructuring will dilute the holdings of current shareholders to 54.5 percent of the capital after the debt swap.
The complex agreement also includes issuing eight billion francs of bonds redeemable in shares, which could further dilute the equity holders to 39.4 percent if the banks exercised their conversion rights at 12.40 francs per share.
But shareholders will also get share warrants at the same price to bring them back to owning 51.3 percent of the capital. ($1=5.156 French Franc)
A Chinese appeals court, in a rare move, sharply reduced on Friday to five years a prison sentence for an International Monetary Fund (IMF) employee accused of corruption.
The court's decision followed a brief suspension of technical assistance by the IMF and a Beijing visit by IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus to voice concern over what he described as judicial shortcomings in the case.
The Beijing Municipal Higher People's Court sentenced Hong Yang, 44, a Chinese national, to five years in prison for accepting bribes totalling 100,000 yuan ($12,000) in 1993, before he joined the IMF, the Xinhua news agency said.
"The sentence was dealt with leniently... and according to law," Xinhua quoting the court as saying on Friday.
Hong, a former employee of the People's Bank of China, or central bank, was arrested in December while on an IMF mission to China. He was found guilty on June 28.
Beijing sources said the original sentence was for 10 years, although statements by the IMF in Washington put it at 11 years. Hong appealed.
Chinese courts rarely cut sentences on appeal, though an admission of guilt may lead to more lenient treatment.
Camdessus has confirmed reports that Chinese authorities pressured the IMF to include Hong, who had been working at the international organisation's headquarters in Washington, on a mission to China.
The Chinese actions created a furore at the IMF and Camdessus said in a letter to the organisation's staff he would closely monitor a second trial.
"I also urged that the second open trial be transparent and complete and remedy the shortcomings of the first trial," Camdessus said after he visited Beijing last month.
Xinhua did not mention the original trial but it highlighted the legality and openness of the second.
It said the case was put on open trial on August 9 and that Hong, his two defence lawyers and four witnesses appeared in court and were involved in the proceedings.
It also said that 200 people, including Hong's relatives and IMF officials, were present.
It added that the man accused of offering the bribe, Fan Honggen, and other individuals from the Agricultural Bank would be dealt with in a separate case. It did not give further details.
Chinese importers are expected to make incremental use of import quotas for 1.3 million tonnes of palm oil to avoid driving up the world price and pushing down the domestic price, Far East traders said on Friday.
China still has significant stocks of edible oil -- reported in official media to be 2.8 million tonnes by the end of October 1995 -- which could even keep China out of the palm oil market until early 1997, traders said.
A flurry in Malaysian palm oil futures prices on Friday, as speculators reacted to news the Chinese government had approved imports of 1.3 million tonnes of palm oil, was a knee-jerk reaction, trading sources around the region said.
"This is just panic short-covering and speculative interest," a Singapore trader said.
"People are just looking at the volume of 1.3 million tonnes, they are not looking at the market reality," he said.
Import licences could be extended, said another trader, as those issued in 1995 had been for six months.
"This is just the normal annual allocation," he said. "Unless China buys a couple of hundred thousand tonnes a month, there is no justification for a market move, this is just on the news.
"People have been talking about it for a month or more. There is no need (for China) to hurry," he said.
Malaysian Primary Industries Minister Lim Keng Yaik said on Thursday China had approved imports of 1.3 million tonnes of palm oil between August 1996 and March 1997.
Malaysia would provide 80 percent of China's palm oil, Lim said, with the remainder coming from Indonesia.
At midday, the benchmark third position November crude palm oil futures contract was up 20 ringgit to 1,180 riggit (US$473.33) a tonne. Among refined products, November/December RBD palm olein was traded at $550 a tonne FOB Malaysia.
Traders said domestic Chinese palm oil prices were around 6,500 yuan ($783) a tonne.
Using the November/December bulk palm olein FOB Malaysia price as a benchmark, traders said importing did not make economical sense for China as costs, freight, insurance, and import and value-added taxes would push the price up to 7,552 yuan ($910) a tonne.
"They are not likely to use the quotas straight away," another trader said.
Annual per capita consumption of edible oil in China is six kg (13.2 lb), compared with the average 16 kg (35.2 lb) in developed countries.
Traders said China had been importing about 100,000 tonnes a month of palm oil, mostly as bulk palm olein, up to June.
Palm olein is used by the food industry for manufacture of ice cream and cakes; palm oil is used for frying in the production of instant noodles.
Customs figures released this week show China's edible oil imports, including palm oil, in the first seven months of 1996 were 1.74 million tonnes, down 26.9 percent from the same period in 1995. July vegetable imports were nil, the figures show.
Palm oil imports for the first seven months of 1996 totalled 582,000 tonnes, trading sources said, down 40 percent on the same 1995 period.
Overbuying in 1995 was still hanging over the market, traders said. Some sources have predicted that current vegetable oil stocks could last until the end of 1996, and they point to soft domestic prices as proof.
Indeed, prices indicated in Shanghai on Wednesday showed vegetable oil prices falling to as low as 6,700 yuan ($807) a tonne, from 7,000 ($843) a tonne two weeks ago.
Soyoil fell to 7,200 a tonne, from around 7,500 two weeks ago, according to figures from the National Grains and Oils Information Centre.
British utilities could find share buybacks and takeovers more costly as the government ruled out tax credits on buybacks and some special dividends on Tuesday, analysts said, but they are unlikely to stop such moves.
"It should not stop companies doing buybacks or special dividends," said Michael Cohen, utilities analyst at Salomon Brothers, "those should still go ahead if justified."
Chancellor Kenneth Clarke said shareholders would no longer be able to claim tax credits on share buybacks or special dividends associated with share consolidations or takeovers.  
The move is a means of giving the UK Treasury more room for a cut in income tax in its November budget, analysts said.
Shares in the utility sector, which has seen a steady flow of buybacks and special dividends both within and outside the context of takeovers, initially slumped on the news but later showed some recovery.
"It was a knee-jerk reaction, slightly overdone," said Kevin Lapwood, utilities analyst at Merrill Lynch.  
Shares in Anglian Water slid 31-1/2 to a low of 525 pence before edging back to 544-1/2 pence at 1300 GMT while Yorkshire Water was down 17-1/2 pence at 622-1/2 pence after slumping to a low of 613 pence.
In the electricity sector, London Electric stumbled to a low of 598 pence before recovering to be down 20-1/2 pence at 608-1/2 pence while generator PowerGen was off 10-1/2 pence at 479 pence from a low of 460 pence earlier.
"The market was of the view that release of value from the balance sheets was less likely, but I think that was overdone," Lapwood said.  
Water and electricity companies report half-year results in a flood between November and December and several had been tipped as likely to offer a buyback or special dividend.
Analysts said the upshot of the government's decision would be to make buybacks more expensive, but the impetus for such moves will not change.
"The logic of a buyback has not changed, it will just be at a premium. And the move on special dividends could make takeovers more expensive, but if it is a good acquisition, it will go ahead," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.  
Companies are generally reticent about specific plans and several contacted declined to comment on the new tax rules or share strategies.
Analysts suggested that of the water companies, Yorkshire Water might consider a buyback while Anglian and Thames might consider restructuring the balance sheet.
East Midlands Electricity, Yorkshire Electricity and London Electric were singled out as potentially considering special dividends, while the market is still waiting to see such a move from PowerGen, analysts said.
"It does not really affect the companies, just a group of investors," Cohen said.
Those funds affected by the move are likely to change investments to try to avoid any impact, analysts said.
"At the end of the day it will probably end up roughly equal," the analyst said.
"Gross funds will restructure and companies will come out with cleverer mechanisms," he added.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Britain's nuclear generator British Energy Plc said on Tuesday it would announce job cuts and cost savings on October 9 which were largely expected by the market but criticised by opposition politicians.
"It is clear that British Energy has not performed as they promised they would," Labour's energy and industry spokesman John Battle said in a statement.
A British Energy spokesman confirmed Wednesday's announcement would cover job cuts and cost savings but declined to give further details.
Analysts said they were expecting the company to outline a cut of some 20 percent in its workforce of over 6,500 by the year 2000.
"That's what we have based our valuation on, it was the figure given to the analysts' briefing over privatisation," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
Newspaper reports this week have said the company could cut between 1,300-1,500 posts in an effort to make cost savings of around 100 million pounds ($156.4 million).
Battle called on British Energy to confirm the dividend policy outlined in the company's privatisation prospectus, which warned that it was vulnerable to underperformance by nuclear power stations.
At privatisation, the company said its initial interim dividend would be 4.6 pence per share and forecasts for final dividend are at 9.1 pence for 1996/97.
But Labour's Battle said the job cuts could damage performance and see the company falling below targets. "Performance targets anticipated in the prospectus have never previously been consistently achieved and the loss of a reported 1,300...staff is expected to further undermine chances of reaching them," Battle said.
British Energy, which runs eight nuclear power stations in England and Scotland, was one of the ruling Conservative party's most unpopular privatisations when it was sold off in July.
It had a first instalment price of 100 pence for small investors and 105 pence for institutions but slid below these levels at its debut and has rarely moved above since.
Its launch was overshadowed by concerns over its future profitability when it closed two of its eight reactors after finding cracks just days before shares started trading. Analysts said the job cuts had largely been outlined at the time of privatisation.
"All that has been absorbed into forecasts," said Kevin Lapwood of Merrill Lynch.
British Energy shares were down half a penny at 105 pence by 1109 GMT, which analysts said reflected market nonchalance over job cuts. ($1=.6393 Pound)
Shares in debt-mired Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel SA fell on Tuesday after they were requoted following a week's suspension, amid disappointment over terms of its restructuring with creditor banks.
The troubled Anglo-French company unveiled on Monday details of the refinancing its 69.6 billion francs ($13.50 billion) of junior-ranked bank debt after a year of complex negotiations with bank lenders.
The shares were trading at 8.50 francs at 1052 GMT, on heavy volume of 16 million. They were 9.15 francs when they were suspended on September 30.
Analyst Jean Borgeix at broker Pinatton said the stock market was disappointed with the 10.40 francs for which the banks will getting new Eurotunnel shares in an eight billion franc equity for debt deal.
The market had been looking for a conversion price of between 12-15 francs per share, he said.
The current shareholders also stand to effectively "lose" 30 percent of Eurotunnel's future cashflow, as this is the percentage earmarked for paying the "stabilisation notes" it would issue to banks in return for an interest-free credit line.
The company negotiated the right to issue the stabilisation notes in case it fell short of cash to meet interest payments. It can issue up to 14.8 billion francs of the notes.
Factoring in that loss of future cashflow gave the shares a present value of around 8.5 francs per share.
Another French analyst said, "The restructuring assures the industrial viability of the project, even though the shares remain a risky investment."
The debt deal looked good on paper and the zero-interest stabilisation notes provided Eurotunnel with a last line of defence if its cash failed to meet interest payments, he said.
A trader at a major U.S. brokerage in Paris said the share price suffered from the dilution of equity due to the debt pact.
The restructuring will dilute the holdings of current shareholders to 54.5 percent of the capital after the debt swap.
The complex agreement also includes issuing eight billion francs of bonds redeemable in shares, which could further dilute the equity holders to 39.4 percent if the banks exercised their conversion rights at 12.40 francs per share.
But shareholders will also get share warrants at the same price to bring them back to owning 51.3 percent of the capital.
($1=5.156 French Franc)
Russia is eyeing its second consecutive bad grain harvest and will need imports despite a prediction by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin that output will be enough to meet demand, industry sources said Tuesday.
"The sheer volume Russia will produce is enough to meet demand, but the quality is not," said specialist Andrei Sizov of the independent consultancy SovEcon Ltd. "So it is fully possible that Russia will be forced to go to Western markets."
Chernomyrdin, in a speech to the Federation Council, the upper parliament house, forecast 1996 grain output of 77-78 million metric tons, "significantly higher" than last year's harvest of 63.4 million tons.
"This will allow us to provide the population with bread and bread products until the new (1997) harvest, to prepare enough concentrated feed grains and to increase grain reserves," a copy of Chernomyrdin's speech read.
But grain sources have said private-sector buying would still take place. "We have a shortage of first-class wheat," Georgy Zelinsky, general director of the agricultural trade association Khleboproduktprogress, told an industry seminar.
Sizov said piecemeal Russian imports of grain and flour in grain equivalent from all sources would rise to 5.0-6.0 million tons over the 1996/1997 crop year, from 4.5 million in 1995/1996 crop year.
Anatoly Manellya, head of agricultural forecasting at the Centre for Economic Trends, a think-tank set up by the government, said he thought imports could be even higher.
Agriculture Minister Viktor Khlystun has said Russia may import up to 4.5 million tons of corn and soymeal, plus 500,000 tons of wheat from the United States, Canada and/or Australia.
Zelinsky said domestic feed corn was in short supply, but corn for human consumption was not.
But industry sources said Western markets should not expect sudden announcements of big purchases. Rather, Russia would buy piecemeal in small lots, they said.
Sizov said imports of Western grain could be possible because Ukrainian flour supplies would slip due to very poor harvest outlook there.
"Russia has become the world's largest flour importer," he said, referring to imports which increased to one million tons in the 1995/1996 crop year, a rise of 25-30 times from the previous year.
Industry sources said the most likely buyers would be the dozen or so Russian commercial banks authorised to use U.S. government commodities credits.
Russia has used nearly all its reserves from the 1995 harvest, the worst in three decades. It survived largely due to carryover stocks from the 1994 harvest.
Analysts said on Monday they were expecting UK electronic business information company M.A.I.D Plc to launch new screen-based products that would rival services offered by real-time financial news services.
M.A.I.D declined to comment on a newspaper report that it was working on new online products that would undercut the prices of international news and information group Reuters Holdings Plc and financial news group Bloomberg LP.
The company's executives are on a roadshow in the U.S. for about a week. But a company spokesman said: "We never comment on market speculation regarding product development."
The Sunday Times said M.A.I.D was poised to unveil a screen-based real time news service at sharply lower prices than services from Reuters or Bloomberg. Other products could include transmitting financial data to hand-held devices using mobile-telephone technology, the newspaper added.
Analysts had heard a deal was on the cards between MAID and Finnish group Nokia to start a mobile share price service and expected a similar deal with Psion Plc.
Experts said they had also been waiting for Reuters and MAID to launch more similar, rival services.
"I'm totally unsurprised at the article," said Keith Woolcock, analyst at Merrill Lynch. "MAID and Reuters are going to be competing more in the future. Their products are going to become more similar, I think,"
Reuters Business Briefing, the Reuters service against which MAID is expected to compete, offers mainly online business news and share price data at the moment, whereas about 70 percent of MAID's data is market research information.
But analysts expect soon to be able to set up a customised service on MAID systems so that they are alerted to pre-selected requested headlines as stories appear on MAID's news services.
"I know they have been working on that," noted one analyst who declined to be named. "The big deal is having the alerts built in. The key thing about this is what they are going to charge for it in America...
"If they offer this new alert service for free then it's very hot and will make it very hard for anyone to compete." Analysts expect MAID to tie up a deal with the Financial Times, adding it to French news agency Agence France Presse and U.S. services as well as direct links to other newspapers.
Reuters Business Briefing, meanwhile, is branching out into market research.
Market research group Datamonitor said it has signed a deal with Reuters since ending a similar contract with MAID.
From November no Datamonitor research will be available on MAID anymore, a Datamonitor spokesman said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7987
The Commmonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) warned again on Tuesday of a subdued profit outlook for the current 1996/97 year and beyond, citing a competitive housing market, falling margins and higher wage costs.
CBA chairman Tim Besley told shareholders at the bank's annual meeting that nothing in the first three months of the year had changed earlier forecasts of flat profits in the current year to June 30, 1997.  
"We are now three months into the financial year and nothing has changed to prompt the bank to revise this assessment," Besley said in his chairman's address.
"1996/97 is shaping up to be every bit as challenging as we envisaged," he said.
"The home loan market remains intensely competitive."
Commonwealth Bank reported a net profit of A$1.12 billion in 1995/96, up from A$983 million in 1994/95, and said when it released its results in August that it expected earnings to be flat in 1996/97.  
Besley said CBA's directors aimed to maintain the ratio of dividends per share to earnings per share at around 80 percent in 1996/97.
However, Besley also said later at the meeting that banking industry profits could fall over the long run and that CBA would have to work hard to ensure its profit falls were less than those of other banks.
"We have to be sure that ours (profits) come down by as little as any of the others," Besley said in answer to a shareholder's question.  
Besley later told reporters banking industry profits would be under pressure in the future.
"The industry will be under pressure of falling profits unless, just like in any other industry, it pays great attention to its costs and gets very efficient," he said.
"There's no suggestion that (the CBA's) profits would fall off this year," he said, adding that it was the bank's objective to increase profits in 1997/98.
CBA Managing Director David Murray also played down Besley's earlier comments. "I read that comment to mean a fall in the growth rate in profits," he said.  
When asked if he too aimed for a rebound from the flat 1996/97 to profit growth in 1997/98, Murray said: "Yes. It means marketing better and containing our costs."
But he said it was too early to be specific about a possible profit rise in 1997/98. Murray however also told the annual meeting that cost control would be difficult.
He said CBA had restricted wages growth to four percent in the two years before the most recently negotiated enterprise bargaining agreements.  
"That (four percent over two years) is clearly not sustainable with the inflation rate and wage expectations where they are but we continue to bargain hard on that front."
CBA's share price closed down 11 cents at A$11.90, having earlier fallen to A$11.80 on the bearish comments from the annual meeting. "It's all on this talk of no earnings growth and wages pressure," one Melbourne broker said before the late session bounce.
Murray and Besley also repeated their view that official interest rates were more likely to be cut than raised before the end of the year.  
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Australian publisher Pacific Magazines and Printing Ltd told its shareholders on Tuesday to expect a small rise in earnings as paper prices came back to earth and a recent cost-cutting drive started to pay dividends.
At an annual meeting which unanimously approved the group's name change to PMP Communications Ltd, chairman Ken Cowley said lower paper prices were boosting demand for printing work and that earnings from magazine publishing were also growing.  
"I think it is fair to say it (profit) will be marginally up on this current year we have just finished," Cowley told reporters after the meeting in Melbourne.
Cowley forecast a tough economic environment in Australia over the current business year, ending next June 30, but this would be partly offset by a continuing cost-cutting drive.
"We have got to find more efficient ways of operating and that work has started and it will be continuing," he said.
Optus Communications Ltd said on Tuesday its Optus Vision pay-television venture was considering whether to continue to support the Australian Rugby League (ARL) after its court defeat against News Corp last week.
"The decision we have to make is how long we continue to support that, and I think right now our people and Channel Nine people would be talking about those issues," Optus Communications chairman Russell Fynmore told Reuters.
Fynmore did not elaborate but said the ultimate fate of the ARL or its News-backed rival Superleague would be decided by the financial backing for the leagues.
"This is really for the ARL and Superleague to determine and in the end it will determined on how much financial support there is for both leagues," Fynmore said.
Optus Vision, five percent-owned by Australian magnate Kerry Packer's Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd (PBL), owns the pay-television broadcast rights to the ARL. PBL's Channel Nine has the free-to-air broadcast rights to ARL.
The ARL suffered a major reversal of fortunes last Friday before the full bench of the Federal Court, which unanimously upheld News' appeal against previous rulings banning Superleague till the turn of the century.
Superleague is preparing to kick off its competition next season, creating the prospect of two rival leagues fighting for TV audience share in 1997 unless a compromise is reached.
Earlier on Tuesday, News Ltd executive chairman Ken Cowley said the company's door was open to talks with the ARL.
"You have always got to keep your door open...," Cowley told reporters in Melbourne.
"We want to maximise the number of fans watching Superleague and so we will be doing the best we can for the fans and the clubs and the players," he added.
He dismissed suggestions, published on Tuesday in News Ltd's The Australian newspaper, that ARL chairman Ken Arthurson could step aside to facilitate a merger of the two leagues.
"The statement by Ken suggesting he might fall on his sword is rather a curious reaction," Cowley said.
"He has no authority in the ARL -- he hasn't had for a couple of years. He cannot make any decisions of any consequences regarding to the game, and particularly to Superleague, without the approval of Kerry Packer."
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Hong Kong Dragon Airlines (Dragonair) is about to buy two new Airbus Industrie consortium aircraft and lease another to cope with increasing demand on its routes into China, industry sources told Reuters.
The proposed deal is for two new Airbus A320 aircraft for delivery in 1998 and 1999 with options for five more and one larger Airbus A330 on lease from next year, the source said.
A Dragonair spokesman said it could not confirm the reported acquisition but he said talks on new aircraft had been taking place.
The airline which currently has a fleet of seven Airbus A320s and four A330s, recently said it will need additional aircraft.
"It is common knowledge that we have a requirement for extra capacity and we have been talking to Airbus but no announcement has been made yet," the spokesman said.
Industry analysts said expansion would be seen as a vote of confidence in future business prospects after a difficult period trying to develop its regional network especially into China.
Slot restrictions at Hong Kong's crowded Kai Tak airport were a major constraint, they added.
Expansion would also benefit Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd which holds an 18 percent stake in the regional carrier by feeding more passengers and cargo on its international network and vice versa, analysts said.
Dragonair recently began new services to the Chinese city of Qingdao and Khaohsiung in Taiwan. It also has full scheduled cargo rights on two of its Chinese routes to Xian and Chengdu and says it has plans for additional Chinese services to Chongqing, Urumqi and Shantou.
Other shareholders in Dragonair are the Chinese state-owned China National Aviation Corp with 36 percent, China-backed CITIC Pacific Ltd with 29 percent and Cathay's parent, Swire Pacific Ltd with eight percent. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
Trading on most of China's futures markets, under pressure from Beijing to curb speculation, has now dropped so far that hedging has become virtually impossible, traders and analysts said on Tuesday.
A trader with a futures firm in Shanghai said only the metals contracts market, the Shanghai Metal Exchange, still had enough liquidity and flexibility to allow companies to hedge risk.
Beijing has recently issued two key documents encouraging the securities markets but warning the futures markets of more clean-ups and restructuring to come.
Rumours have swirled around the futures markets in recent days that Beijing plans to merge or close many of the 15 futures exchanges in the country, possibly concentrating all futures trading into five exchanges.
"From what I hear about the feedback from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), there is no such plan," said Xie Boxing, deputy manager of the Information Department of the Shanghai Cereals and Oils Exchange (SCOE).
"There is no change to the basic policy of developing these markets," he added.
But Xie said liquidity on the exchange, particularly in rice, had fallen off as a result of the Beijing statements on the futures markets, making it difficult for companies to use the exchange for hedging.
"The scale of trading at this point is a bit small for hedging," he said.
The irony of the crackdown on the futures markets is that it has removed the basis for hedging and left only speculators in the market, one analyst said.
A second Chinese futures company trader said the trading volume of most commodity futures contracts on Chinese exchanges was now so small that there was no opportunity for hedging operations to take place.
"The only people trading the contracts for most of these commodities are speculators," the trader said.
A spokesman for the CSRC in Beijing on Monday told Reuters that the authorities still wanted the futures markets to develop despite the recent documents on the futures markets stressing current problems.
"This does not mean that futures market should cease to develop, development is a constant theme for China's futures market," he said.
But the spokesman declined to comment on the rumours of impending closures and mergers of futures exchanges.
"I cannot say anything on measures to deal with the markets in the future, I don't know whether some futures exchanges would be closed," he added.
One trader said that while the authorities would probably not formally close any of the exchanges, they could take other measures to in effect slowly strangle them such as raising the margin requirements on various contracts.
SCOE's Xie said the authorities still viewed the futures exchanges, set up in the early 1990s, as an experiment, but he felt that in the end they would prove their value.
"There should be a bright future for futures, particularly for contracts for agricultural products. That's how the futures business began in other parts of the world, and China is a big agricultural producer," he said.
But for now, trading volumes are down significantly on the SCOE compared to last year.
Up to Monday, 6.40 million lots on all contracts changed hands on the exchange this year compared to a full-year total of 13.5 million lots last year, he said. One lot is five tonnes of commodities.
Undeterred by the woes of Japan's debt-laden finance industry, foreign investors have flocked to a new share offering by the nation's fourth-biggest bank.
The strong interest in the preferred shares issued last month by Sakura Bank Ltd, despite the institution's relatively weak financial strength rating, points to greater confidence among foreign investors than domestic ones about the state of the industry, market sources say.
"We received nearly two trillion yen ($18 billion) worth of demand for 150 billion yen ($1.35 billion) of preferred shares," said Kazuya Johno, assistant general manager at Sakura Bank's Planning Division.
"Foreign investors are properly assessing each Japanese bank and it seems to me they have acknowledged that the worst of the bad loan problem (at Japanese banks) is over."
Last month Sakura issued 75 million shares of preferred stock at 2,000 yen ($18) each, becoming the fourth big Japanese bank to launch a convertible offering to boost its capital base in the past year. All of the offerings have been well-received by foreign investors, market sources say.
Payment for Sakura's five-year preferred stock issue was on September 30. Holders of such shares do not get voting rights but generally receive higher dividends than for common shares.
Market sources said foreign investors have grown more positive about Japan's big banks than domestic investors, who are concerned about the idea of banks issuing shares to improve capital adequacy ratios. An official at a major life insurance company said: "We will not buy new shares even if banks issue them. We are worried about the negative impact of new share issues on bank stocks and the markets."
Sakura's Johno said that the bank's preferred stock had been repackaged through an overseas trust for selling abroad.
In Japan, issuers cannot force investors to convert preferred stock to common stock during the term period. Through repackaging, Sakura wanted investors to convert preferred shares to common shares in a way that would not jeopardise the bank's stock price or the stability of the overall market.
"If investors converted preferred stock at one time, it could bring some 150 million common shares into the market and have an enormous impact on share prices," Johno said.
In the scheme, investors must convert part of their holdings to common stock in stages, with one-third converted three years after the issue and a similar amount four years after the issue. All the preferred shares must be converted by October 1, 2001.
To attract investors, the bank also promised to review the conversion price every year to minimise risks stemming from stock price fluctuations. Under the formula, the lower the conversion price the more common shares investors can have.
The initial conversion price was set at 1,122 yen ($10) with an annual dividend of 15 yen. The conversion price will be reviewed on December 8, 1997, and every October 1 after that. Sakura was trading at 1,070 yen on Tuesday.
Johno said about 70 percent of foreign buyers of the preferred stock were long-term holders such as pension funds.
Sakura aimed to boost its core capital through the stock issue to help its restructuring after it disposed of about 950 billion yen ($8.55 billion) of problem loans in the last fiscal year, which cut its capital adequacy ratio by 0.35 percentage point to 8.37 percent. Under international rules, banks operating internationally are required to hold a minimum eight percent of capital against risk-weighted assets.
Sakura is Japan's fourth-biggest bank in terms of risk-weighted assets. Its financial strength rating of "D+" assigned by credit rating agency Moody's Investors Service Inc is among the lower gradings for major Japanese banks. ($1=111 yen)
An inaccessible, romantic and mystic Shangri-la where Chinese police torture Buddhist monks is a common Western view of Tibet.
A mysterious, terrifying land where lanterns are made from human skin, skulls are used for goblets and slavery is a recent memory is a widespread Chinese view of this far-flung outpost of Beijing's rule.
Somewhere in between may lie the truth.
"Tibet is constantly used as a Cold War icon by anti-Chinese opportunists," said Robbie Barnett, who runs the London-based Tibet Information Network that specialises in providing data on the human rights situation in Tibet.
For Tibetans prostrating themselves before their beloved Buddhist shrines, buying chunks of yak meat in the Lhasa market or cycling to a disco in the evening, such issues seem far removed from their daily lives.
Tibet's capital Lhasa, one of the world's highest cities at 3,684 metres (12,087 ft), has the air almost of a Wild West town that is rushing to catch up with the rest of the world.
The tap of hammers and roar of drills signal a construction boom that is transforming meadows and wasteland on the edges of the ancient city into a Chinese town like any other.
Many Western human rights groups and pro-Tibet activists cry foul. They speak of the sinicisation, the Han Chinese invasion of a land that belongs to Tibetans. They say that wealth is being concentrated in the hands of a few Han Chinese at the expense of the indigenous people and Tibetan culture is being annihilated.
Beijing says Tibetans in the region number 2.3 million while Han Chinese total fewer than 100,000. No figure is given for the military presence in the strategic region that borders India, with which Chinese troops have fought numerous skirmishes in the past 40-odd years and last went to war in 1962.
Official figures show an economy growing by about 10 percent a year, with rural per capita incomes around 600 yuan ($72) while urban incomes are about 2,000 yuan ($240). Both are still about half the national average but are increasing rapidly.
China chooses to compare the present standard of living with the traditional feudal system of serfs, many now officials, that persisted until well after People's Liberation Army troops marched into Tibet in 1950.
One Tibetan bus driver boasted of earning 100 yuan ($12) a day, a princely sum even for a Beijing cab driver.
Western activists prefer to heed the cause of the exiled Dalai Lama, spiritual leader of Tibet and winner of the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize for his peaceful struggle for autonomy for his homeland since he fled after an abortive uprising in 1959.
"There are a lot of former hippies getting into something they think is an easy ride," Barnett said.
"I do think things are enormously oversimplified," he said. "But fundamental disdain in Tibet for Chinese rule is so prevalent and of such long standing that in many cases it constitutes the basic context or tone within which other events have to be placed."
Tibetan exiles report a revival of traditional Tibetan ways in rural areas, pilgrims come freely to worship in Lhasa and commerce involving Tibetans apparently thrives on almost every Lhasa street corner.
In the main square in front of Lhasa's Jokhang temple, the Tibetan holy of holies, ragged pilgrims with matted hair prostrate themselves in medieval religious fervour and warrior merchants from the eastern Chamdo region mingle easily and chat in the marketplace with plainclothes Tibetan police.
To the visitor, there is little immediate sense of the anti-Chinese tension that prompted angry monks to riot against Chinese rule in the late 1980s.
There is little doubt Beijing would move swiftly to crush political opposition, as it does elsewhere in China. Officials say they are determined not to permit any infringement of Chinese sovereignty and warn repeatedly of the threat from what they call the "Dalai Lama splittist clique".
"Tibetans are resigned to it and accept the way things are," said one foreign resident who declined to be identified.
"They put up with the situation," he said. "There's enough control here that it would cut off anything before it got started."
But any military presence is not overt. Few soldiers are visible in the streets, apparently keeping to their barracks on the city outskirts, as in other Chinese towns, where they can be seen planting trees and whitewashing walls.
While photographs of the exiled Dalai Lama are nowhere to be seen following a ban earlier this year, pictures of Tibet's second holiest monk, the late 10th Panchen Lama, and his seven-year-old official reincarnation are everywhere.
Rural Tibetan homes that in the late 1980s were required to fly the red Chinese national flag now appear free to fly just their own colourful prayer pennants.
Human rights groups say dissidents and monks languish in jail for demanding independence. Many Tibetans appear to have more immediate concerns, such as making enough money from new business opportunities to buy a colour television, build their own home or send their children to school.
Pro-Tibet activists in the West paint a much harsher picture of life in Shangri-la under Chinese rule, and a MiG fighter on display at the foot of the legendary Potala Palace, towering over the capital, could be seen as a symbol of what they would call Chinese occupation.
But shades of grey exist.
"One of the great misfortunes of the Tibetans has been that they have attracted a number of westerners or exiles who have simplified the issues and given the impression that Tibetans are averse to development," Barnett said.
"Most people in Tibet want modernisation but feel they are under foreign rule."
The Czech Republic and Spain played out a scoreless draw in their World Cup group six qualifier on Wednesday, in a match that never lived up to expectations.
The Czechs were facing their first big test since they reached the Euro 96 final, while Real Madrid's teenage striker Raul was looking to spark a depleted Spanish attack in his first full international.
Both sides opened their World Cup campaigns last month with high-scoring victories over the two weakest teams in the group, Spain winning 6-2 in the Faroe Islands and the Czechs thrashing Malta 6-0.
But Yugoslavia have already collected three wins and Slovakia two against the same two hapless victims and neither team could afford to give ground in Prague.
Like two heavyweights feeling each other out in the early rounds, both teams started tentatively, waiting to pounce on the other's mistakes.
The Spaniard's were the first to flinch when Kaiserslautern striker Pavel Kuka's cross found an unmarked Karel Poborsky just outside the crease. But the Manchester United midfielder failed to control the ball, wasting what would turn out be one of the game's few good scoring chances.
Next it was the Czechs turn to falter. Newcastle United goalkeeper Pavel Srnicek, winning his first cap in over a year, tried to clear the ball, but hit attacker Alfonso Perez and watched helplessly as it rolled just wide of the net.
The Czechs picked up their play in the second half, putting Spain on their heels for the rest of the game.
"I don't think we lost points tonight because they are such an excellent team. They played strongly in the defence and its too bad we missed out on the two great chances we had," said Czech striker Patrik Berger.
Teams:
Czech Republic: 1-Pavel Srnicek, 2-Radoslav Latal, 3-Jan Suchoparek, 4-Pavel Nedved (15-Martin Frydek, 86th), 5-Miroslav Kadlec, 6-Michal Hornak, 7-Jiri Nemec, 8-Karel Poborsky (17-Vladimir Smicer, 58th), 9-Pavel Kuka, 10-Patrik Berger, 11-Radek Bejbl
Spain: 1-Andoni Zubizarreta, 2-Abelardo Fernandez, 3-Sergi Barjuan, 4-Rafael Alkorta, 5-Miguel Angel Nadal, 6-Fernando Hierro, 7-Raul Gonzalez, 8-Luis Enrique Martinez, 9-Guillermo Amor (18-Ismael Urzaiz, 76th), 10-Julen Guerrero (14-Josep Guardiola, 52nd), 11-Alfonso Perez (15-Roberto Rios, 73rd)
The Czech Republic and Spain played to a scoreless draw in their World Cup group six qualifier on Wednesday, in a lacklustre match that failed to live up to its marquee billing.
The Czechs were facing their first big test since they reached the Euro 96 final, while Real Madrid's teenage striker Raul Gonzalez was looking to spark a depleted Spanish attack in his first cap.
Both sides opened their World Cup campaigns last month with high-scoring victories over the two weakest teams in the group, Spain winning 6-2 in the Faroe Islands and the Czechs thrashing Malta 6-0.
But Yugoslavia have already collected three wins and Slovakia two against the same two hapless victims and neither team could afford to give ground in Prague.
Like two heavyweights feeling each other out in the early rounds, both teams started tentatively, waiting to pounce on the other's mistakes.
The Spaniard's were the first to flinch when Kaiserslautern striker Pavel Kuka's cross found an unmarked Karel Poborsky just outside the crease. But the Manchester United midfielder failed to control the ball, wasting what would turn out be one of the game's few good scoring chances.
Next it was the Czechs turn to falter. Newcastle United goalkeeper Pavel Srnicek, making his first cap in over a year, tried to clear the ball, but hit attacker Alfonso Perez and watched helplessly as it rolled just wide of the net.
The Czechs picked up their play in the second half, putting Spain on its heels for the rest of the game.
But veteran Valencia goalkeeper Andoni Zubizarreta held his ground on Pavel Kuka's dangerous turnaround blast from just outside the penalty spot, and then robbed Jan Suchoparek in the dying minutes of the game, stopping the midfielder's drive from three metres away to keep the game scoreless.
"I don't think we lost points tonight because they are such an excellent team. They played strongly in the backfield and its too bad we missed out on the two great chances we had," said Liverpool sensation Patrik Berger.
Added Spanish coach :"Raul played very well and I'm pleased with our team. Both teams could have one this match, and I'm content with the result though we would have liked to have taken three points."
Teams:
Czech Republic - 1-Pavel Srnicek, 2-Radoslav Latal, 3-Jan Suchoparek, 4-Pavel Nedved (15-Martin Frydek, 86th), 5-Miroslav Kadlec, 6-Michal Hornak, 7-Jiri Nemec, 8-Karel Poborsky (17-Vladimir Smicer, 58th), 9-Pavel Kuka, 10-Patrik Berger, 11-Radek Bejbl
Spain - 1-Andoni Zubizarreta, 2-Abelardo Fernandez, 3-Sergi Barjuan, 4-Rafael Alkorta, 5-Miguel Angel Nadal, 6-Fernando Hierro, 7-Raul Gonzalez, 8-Luis Enrique Martinez, 9-Guillermo Amor (18-Ismael Urzaiz, 76th), 10-Julen Guerrero (14-Josep Guardiola, 52nd), 11-Alfonso Perez (15-Roberto Rios, 73rd)
"The Times They Are a-Changin" -- Bob Dylan's counter-culture anthem of the 1960's  -- is being used in a commericial for a Canadian bank and some fans are up in arms.
The Bank of Montreal is running a television commercial using the American singer's 1964 folk classic to lure baby boomers into the country's third biggest bank. The TV spot shows children running down country roads and across lush fields as a choir sings Dylan's song.
The commercial ends with a Bank of Montreal logo and the promise of a big announcement on Oct. 16.
The new campaign has drawn fire from Dylan fans angry that a big institution has co-opted this protest song from their youth. But a senior bank official said Dylan's lyrics reflect the bank's desire to change in the 1990s.
"Our view is a bank has to change because the times are changing. We thought the lyrics caught rather nicely the imperative for large institutions, like banks, that they face having to change," George Bothwell, senior vice-president of public affairs, said in a telephone interview.
Some callers to a morning radio show in Toronto were outraged at the ad campaign. The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. played the commercial and Dylan's version, then asked listeners for their reaction.
"I was appalled. The bank failed to understand the spirit of the song. It has so many associations for people our age. I hope they reconsider. They went over the line with this one," one female caller said.
Another listener said: "Bob Dylan, I can only say, shame on you."
Dylan still owns the copyright to the song but was unavailable for comment.
Some younger callers said aging baby boomers have only themselves to blame.
"I don't know why you're surprised. You had high ideals when you grew up. Then you started making money and buying cars. And all the ideals are no longer convenient so you sold out. Every single one of you. Dylan is just doing what everyone is doing," a young listener said.
Another caller scoffed at the controversy: "Baby boomers spare us the crocodile tears. A lot of people have sold out."
One listener found it ironic that in these tough economic times a bank would use a song that warned: "You better start swimming or you'll sink like a stone."
Canada's big banks, which are on track for a third straight year of record profits, have been criticized for high service fees and tight lending policies.
Internet search firm Yahoo! Inc. Wednesday reported a smaller-than expected third quarter loss, reflecting sharply higher revenues from Internet advertising.
The Santa Clara, Calif.-based company reported a loss of $1.2 million, or 4 cents a share, for the quarter ended in September compared with a loss of $371,000, or 2 cents a share, in the 1995 quarter. Sales jumped to $5.2 million from $288,000 in the year ago quarter and $3.3 million in the second quarter.
Analysts had expected the company to lose 7 cents a share in the quarter, according to First Call, which tracks earnings estimates.
Yahoo! is an online directory that appears on computer screens as computer users tap the Internet, the global computer network. The service helps users find specific sites, articles and points of interest in the World Wide Web section of the Internet. Yahoo! makes its money from advertisers, which display banners on its Internet site.
The company, founded by two Stanford University students two years ago, went public in March.
Most of the quarter's loss came from the cost of advertising Yahoo! in traditional media, said Gary Valenzuela, chief financial officer. The company spent $4 million on sales and marketing, more than 14 times the $275,000 it spent a year ago. Research and development expenses also jumped in the quarter to $1.36 million.
"Our focus righrt now is absolutely on building market share, on expanding out reach globally and on adding" services to the site, Valenzuela said.
Valenzuela declined to say how much the company planned to spend on marketing and research and development in coming quarters.
Yahoo! said the number of advertiser grew to 340 in the third quarter from 230 in the second quarter quarter.
Yahoo! also reported more than 1 billion "hits," or viewings by computer users, in the quarter ended Sept. 30, giving the company an average of more than 14 million page views a day in September, up from an average of 9 million a day in June. The site is one of the most popular destinations on the Web.
Yahoo! had a loss of $1.4 million, or 5 cents a share, in the second quarter on sales of $3.3 million.
International Business Machines Corp is discontinuing some unspecified research and development projects as part of a wider effort to cut costs, Louis Gerstner, the company's chairman and chief executive, said on Wednesday.
Gerstner, speaking on a panel of top IBM executives at a Gartner Group technology symposium, said IBM would cut projects for products and services it thought customers would not  want. The move is part of a reallocation of the company's $6.0 billion research budget for 1996, he said.  
"Are the dogs eating the dog food," Gerstner asked. "Is the customer liking this stuff?"
Previously, he said, IBM cut overhead expenses from its research projects. He said that on Monday he sat down with several top IBM executives and painstakingly reviewed the company's entire research and development program.
"We have been able to cut overhead," Gerstner said. "A lot of what has been done in the past was cutting duplication....We are now at the point where we are cutting projects."  
Gerstner took over IBM in April 1993 and quickly embarked on a massive cost-cutting program.
"We spend $6 billion in research. That just happens to be equal to Microsoft's revenues," Gerstner said.
He said the company had moved about 20 percent of the R&amp;D budget to its networked computing research.
In 1995, IBM spent a total of $6.01 billion on research.
Gerstner declined to be more specific about what projects IBM decided to halt. But he stressed that IBM was discontinuing "projects" -- not products that IBM's customers depend on. "I don't want to start any rumors here," he said.  
Analysts said Gerstner was likely trying to prevent any possible misinterpretation of his comments and stop any speculation that IBM was cutting research on products already on the market, such as its much-maligned OS/2 Warp operating system.
"Some industry solutions will go away," said Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial analyst, referring to projects aimed at specific industries, such as travel. He declined to speculate any further on what projects IBM was cutting.
"We used to develop solutions country by country," said Nick Donofrio, an IBM senior vice president, who was on the Gartner conference panel.  
When asked why IBM remained in the unprofitable home PC business, executives said the potential of the $60 billion market -- which may grow to $100 billion by 2000 -- was too rich to ignore. A second reason is that IBM is able to leverage its development and manufacturing of corporate PCs, they said.
"We are not doing this just so we can put a box in the home," said Robert Stephenson, a senior IBM vice president in charge of the PC business. "I hope that we will (eventually) have a server in every home."  
"We can make a profit," Stephenson added.
Industry analysts have said the home PC business is the least profitable segment of the market. Indeed, many companies are losing money, they say.
Shares of American Medical Response Inc fell sharply Wednesday for a second consecutive session amid concern that the ambulance company was straying from its successful acquisition strategy.
The steep decline came after American Medical Response announced Tuesday an agreement to buy STAT Healthcare Inc in a stock transaction valued at $145 million.
The planned acquisition moves American Medical Response, which has bought 69 ambulance companies since 1992, into hospital emergency rooms and disease management.  
Shares of American Medical Response tumbled 2-5/8 to 31-7/8 by midafternoon Wednesday. The stock dropped three points after the transaction was announced on Tuesday.
Wall Street analysts said the deal was strategically sound from a long-term perspective, but noted that investors were wary of the company's shift into a new area.
"The skepticism, which we don't share, is related to the company's going into a business outside their consolidation within the ambulance industry," said Randall Huyser of Furman Selz.  
STAT Healthcare provides staffing for hospital emergency rooms. It also offers outpatient medical services such as kidney dialysis.
"Although the transaction makes sense to us conceptually, this new direction for the company may elicit a wait-and-see attitude from some investors who want to see success first in the new venture. Others may question how the disease management division will fit into the puzzle," Lehman Brothers analyst Jeffrey Kessler wrote in a report issued Wednesday.
Industry sources also cited the company's prediction the deal will slightly dilute earnings this year.  
In a conference call with investors and analysts on Tuesday, American Medical Response said the transaction would be accretive in 1997. It also expects cost savings of $2.5 million from the merger.
Industry analysts also noted that the acquisition would mark a logical extension of the company's existing services.
"They're taking it beyond just driving you to the hospital," said Clifford Hewitt of Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co Inc.
Production at the huge nickel deposit at Voisey's Bay in remote Labrador is still years away, but already it risks falling behind schedule because of environmental concerns and pressure from aboriginal groups.
Inco Ltd, the Toronto-based nickel giant that won control over the spectacular nickel, copper and cobalt property after a bidding war last spring, planned to start open pit production by 1998 and full-scale underground mining by 2000.
The chairman of Germany's opposition Social Democrats (SPD), Oskar Lafontaine, told Czech President Vaclav Havel on Wednesday that his party would push for approval of a long-awaited post-war reconciliation pact, Havel's spokesman said.
Speaking after a meeting of the two officials, Havel's spokesman Ladislav Spacek told reporters that the president "thanked German Social Democrats for their interest in removing the last stones from the way of good understanding" between the two nations.
"(Lafontaine) expressed the interest of the SPD in early debate on the declaration by the governments and parliaments of the two countries," Spacek said.
Lafontaine himself told a joint news conference with the Czech Social Democratic Party (CSSD) leader Milos Zeman that his party "was doing everything so the declaration would be approved yet this year."
The declaration seeks to address Czech memories of the 1938-1945 Nazi occupation and German memories of the indiscriminate expulsion of 2.5 million Sudetens for supporting Hitler, authorised by the victorious World War Two allies.
The Czech Republic is the only remaining victim of Nazi occupation not to have come to terms with Germany. Negotiations on the declaration have dragged on for more than a year, bedevilled by political pressures, particularly in Germany.
Prague says the text has been completed and the problem now lies with Bonn where members of the Sudeten German community, expelled en masse from the former Czechoslovakia after the war, have made a series of demands holding up the text's approval.
Havel called heads of the right-wing coalition including Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec as well as Zeman for a Thursday luncheon debate on the progress of the issue.
One obstacle seemed to disappear last month when Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the dominant figure in German politics, said he hoped it could be signed before the end of the year.
Czech government and moderate opposition leaders agree on the need to settle the issue, which Sudeten leaders have threatened to use to block Czech attempts to join the European Union.
Zeman said on Wednesday the draft version of the declaration did not include demands of Sudetens on possible double citizenship, return of property, nor cancellation of the so-called Benes decrees under which the Germans were expelled.
"I am not aware of anything like that and I don't expect it would get to the final version," he told the news conference.
Havel has said that it was wrong to hold the Sudetens collectively guilty as some -- albeit a minority -- had remained loyal to the democratic Czechoslovak state.
Spacek said Havel might give a speech to the German parliament before the year's end, but added nothing has been finalised.
Russia is flirting with danger in considering a freeze on domestic energy prices, a move which could prolong the oil sector's recovery and in turn slow economic reforms, energy analysts said on Wednesday.
Fuel and Energy Minister Pyotr Rodionov has called for lower oil, gas and electricity prices to help domestic industry.
Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, taking up the baton, said on Tuesday that President Boris Yeltsin could soon sign a decree lowering energy prices and freezing others, but made clear he was talking about gas and electricity.
Energy analysts said talk of frozen prices was ominous for the Russian oil industry -- the country's biggest export earner and the motor of the domestic economy -- just as the now privatised sector shows signs of recovering from a long slump.
"We could see a return to the situation we saw over the past 10 years, when low reinvestment rates led to the decline of the oil industry to its present state," said Vadim Voronin, an energy specialist at the World Bank's Moscow mission.
Price freezes would also annoy the International Monetary Fund, which wants domestic oil prices to match world levels and made industrial restructuring a condition of its $10 billion, three-year loan to Moscow.
"(A price freeze) would slow down some of the reforms and progress we've made, especially in liberalising oil prices," said James Bunch, oil analyst at Renaissance Capital.
Rodionov's predecessor, Yuri Shafranik, had said domestic oil prices should be capped at 75 percent of world levels -- their current level.
Domestic natural gas prices are still a fraction of their real market cost, while electricity is also heavily subsidised.
Artificially low prices inhibit adequate cash-flows, which in turn lowers money available for oil companies to invest, maintain existing wells and drill new ones.
Subsidised prices and low reinvestment were the key factor behind the collapse of the Russian oil industry that began in 1984 and has lasted to this day.
Energy waste in the Soviet era was rife, and Russia's new profit-oriented oil companies have little desire to return to the days of heavily subsidised fuel. In Soviet times, a glass of carbonated water cost more than a litre of gasoline.
With oil production 47 percent below Russia's peak 1987 level of 569.5 million tonnes (11.48 million barrels per day) and two-thirds of output staying in Russia, a price freeze would leave oil companies short of cash just as they need it most.
Russia is the world's third biggest oil producer after Saudi Arabia and the United States, and Moscow wants cheap oil to fuel domestic factories.
Industrial output, already half 1992 levels, fell five percent in January-July after a three percent decline in the first seven months of 1995.
The fact that oil is cheap means the export market is more attractive than the domestic one, but producers are unable to sell more abroad because pipeline capacities are stretched.
The government has promised tax breaks for oil companies, but instead is moving to squeeze them for more cash and force them to deliver more supplies to domestic enterprises.
Peter Houlder, managing director of CentreInvest consultancy in Moscow, said artificially low domestic energy prices would be "extremely damaging". "Companies are making their profit on the small amount of oil they export -- domestic sales now at best break even," he said.
As Czech leaders finally get around to discuss a worrying surge in the trade deficit, analysts suggest a mixed bag of macro and micro-economic fixes, but most say devaluing the crown should be avoided.
Some say the deficit is a necessary product of economic reform and will turn around next year, while the gap between growth in imports, up a nominal 15.2 percent in January-August year-on-year, and exports, up 6.4 percent, will close.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, who for months said there was nothing to worry about as the deficit soared, finally bowed to pressure and called a meeting for Tuesday to confront the gap.
But the meeting was abruptly postponed on Monday with cabinet officials citing the rising pressure of October's parliament session as a reason. A new date for the meeting has yet to be set, but officials say it will be "soon".
The trade deficit grew to a record 100 billion crowns ($3.68 billion) from January-August, the same as for the whole of 1995, and the markets are anxiously awaiting to see what, if anything, might be done.
Forecasts say that the current account deficit will also grow to around six percent of gross domestic product in 1996 from four percent last year.
When Klaus and three cabinet members, plus central bank Governor Josef Tosovsky and Czech Statistical Bureau chairman Edvard Outrata, finally discuss possible fixes for the rapidly expanding gap, they will have heard plenty of advice.
Many analysts say capital inflows can finance the deficit in the short term and urge moves, other than devaluation, that would gradually improve the competitiveness of Czech exporters.
Others suggest measures that could bring immediate relief, including import charges and fiscal adjustment.
GOVERNMENT SHOULD AIM FOR BUDGET SURPLUS NEXT YEAR
"The reaction should come immediately, before the deficit becomes unmanageable," said Vladimir Kreidl, economist at Prague's Patria Finance.
Klaus's government should not only pass its fifth straight balanced budget, but fight for a 1997 surplus of one or two percent of GDP. Other fiscal restrictions could be imposed to help cut domestic demand for imports, he said.
"Fiscal restriction is the most effective tool for reducing the deficit," Kreidl said, adding that the government should back private savings and a fully-funded pension system.
STRUCTURAL REFORMS NEEDED TO BOOST COMPETITIVENESS
Kreidl said more attention was needed to improve the capital markets which would strengthen currency inflow. Speeding up privatisation by sell-offs to strategic foreign investors would also boost competitiveness, he said.
"Czech exporters must become more cost competitive," said Jiri Huebner, Czech and Slovak team director for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).
"There is a need for substantial investments in new plant and technology...to improve productivity."
The government has contended that many of the imports which are fuelling the deficit are modernising Czech industry, which should eventually produce higher export output, but Huebner said more targeted policies were necessary.
He advocated an acceleration of depreciation on new capital expenditures and relaxing tax write-offs of bad debts to spark The government must separate investment funds from bank management to ensure shareholders' interests are a priority, not the credit activity of the parent bank, he said. "The government should prohibit bankers from the credits side of the business (from sitting) on company boards," he said.
IMPORT CURBS MAY HELP AS WESTERN ECONOMIES STAGNATE
Josef Poeschl, Czech specialist at the Vienna Institute for Comparative Economic Studies (WIIW) said that the immediate problem was the poor economic performance of West European economies.
"It is an economic law that if a stagnating economy is trading with a growing one, the latter will be faced with a deterioration of the trade balance," he said.
Poeschl suggested imposing temporary import surcharges and higher taxation on some commodities which are mostly imported.
"But if the Czech deficit does not shrink, a devaluation (of the Czech crown) will remain the only way out."
WORRIES ARE EXAGGERATED, EXPORTS WILL GROW NEXT YEAR
Some economists said the government should not panic.
"The increase of the trade deficit will stop in 1997 at 150 to 160 billion crowns," said Kamil Janacek, chief economist at Prague's Komercni Banka.
In 1997, the first effects of an investment wave will be felt, boosted by reviving demand on EU markets, especially the acceleration of economic growth in Germany, he said.
The Czechs will also benefit from a partial re-orientation of exporters toward neighbouring post-communist countries and the former Soviet Union.
Janacek said there will be a market-based weakening of the crown, from currently above parity with the central bank mark/dollar basket to below parity in the first half of 1997.
"This will help to accelerate exports, and to slow down imports," he said.
DEVALUATION WOULD DO MORE HARM THAN GOOD
"We think the country's trade deficit will likely stabilise in 1997...so, as you can guess, we have plenty to say about what the government shouldn't do," said Boris Gomez, analyst at ING Barings in Prague.
He pointed to a positive, yet gradual shift of exports from commodities to sophisticated finished goods, and development of eastern export markets with higher economic growth potential.
A crown devaluation "is not a painless cure and would do more damage than good to the small and open Czech economy that is heavily dependent on imports at this stage".
It would "generate a wage-price spiral" and hurt credibility, Gomez said. Import surcharges would also sap the economy of needed modernisation.
Gomez concludes that the government must remain committed to faster corporate restructuring, increased labour productivity growth and competitiveness, lower inflation, and continued fiscal discipline. ($1=27.18 Czech Crown)
Australian oil and gas companies are being snapped up by foreign companies with an eye for undervalued stocks, but analysts said the sector faces a bright future with higher oil prices and a deregulated gas market.
During 1996, there has been about A$2.5 billion worth of takeovers announced in Australia's shrinking oil and gas sector and another A$600 million worth of asset sales as some non-oil and gas players quit the local oil and gas market.  
Analysts said local oil groups with low share prices and overseas assets have struck the eye of hungry foreign companies.
"Overseas people appreciate the value of oil and gas assets, particularly in southeast Asia, but I don't think the market is fully valuing these assets through the share prices," Timothy Savage, an oil and gas analyst at Hartley Poynton, told Reuters.
Mobil Corp's A$1.78 billion tilt for Ampolex Ltd in February was the largest bid made this year in the sector. British oil producers are also keen on local oil firms.  
Crusader Ltd was taken over mid-year by Clyde Petroleum Plc, while in the past month Premier Oil Plc has made a bid for Discovery Petroleum NL and Cairn Energy Plc has made a offer for Command Petroleum Ltd.
BT Securities oil and gas analyst Stuart Baker said most of the Australian oil groups that have attracted predator attention have been producers with oil assets offshore.
"It is no coincidence at all that the companies that have disappeared have been always companies that have endeavoured to build an overseas presence, and they have all without exception been taken over," Baker told Reuters.  
Analysts said the rise in the oil price this year had not been a reason for the corporate activity. NYMEX oil futures prices have risen almost 50 percent over the past five months to current levels of about US$25.50 a barrel.
"Takeovers have been a feature of this sector for years and it doesn't seem to matter if the oil price is up or down," Baker said.
Baker said oil companies making the bids have a double positive effect from the oil price rise with increased cash flow and a boost in share prices making it easier for companies to raise equity and debt.
Analysts said rationalisation might continue in the sector for some time, but most of the short-term activity had occured.
"I think it is possibly going to clam down now," one Sydney-based oil analyst said.
Analysts said remaining potential targets in the oil and gas sector were Cultus Petroleum Ltd and Petroz NL, which have assets in the prospective Timor Sea area.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Santos Ltd were unlikely bid targets, analysts said. Woodside, which accounts for nearly 50 percent of the A$12 billion sector, is controlled by oil giant Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
Santos is seen to have a restrictive share ownership structure making it difficult for takeovers, analysts said.
Santos has also been keen on purchases, buying A$250 million worth of oil assets this year from groups quitting the sector.
Analysts said the takeover activity has raised the focus on the sector, particularly in gas exploration and development.
They said reforms in the local gas industry has opened up opportunities for gas supplies to major mines in remote areas and the set up of co-generation projects around the country.
"There is a lot of money coming over here and finding their way into all sorts of corners of the industry. So it looks like it is going to be a fairly buoyant period again, irrespective of whether we have further takeovers ahead," Baker said.
Australia's oil and gas index hit a record high of 1459.5 on Tuesday, but fell slightly to close at 1432.9 on Wednesday.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373 1800
Leading Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo has been ordered to serve three years in a labour camp in a term imposed just hours after police detained him and a second pro-democracy activist was missing, relatives said on Wednesday.
Veteran pro-democracy activist Wang Xizhe, who recently issued a joint statement with Liu, appeared to be missing from his home in southern Guangzhou, his wife said by telephone.
Police had notified Liu Xiaobo's wife early on Wednesday of the administrative three-year sentence, which does not need a court trial, but gave her no reason for the punishment.
"They have still had no formal contact with me or given me a reason," Liu Xia said in a telephone interview late in the day.
"I am very angry. How can they do this?," she said. "He did not do anything illegal. All he did was exercise his freedom of speech... Citizens have freedom of speech..."
She said she had not yet decided whether to appeal on his behalf.
The administrative punishment was passed against Liu just hours after he was taken from his Beijing home early on Tuesday by a group of uniformed and plainclothes police, with a search warrant, who also confiscated books, papers and photographs.
"Re-education through labour is the personal power of the public security bureau, it doesn't have to go through judicial departments," Liu Xia said. "The public security can just do as they wish."
Police officials declined to comment.
The administrative punishment of re-education through labour has been increasingly used against dissidents in recent months as a means of removing activists from circulation while avoiding the more complicated trial process, diplomats say.
Police gave no reason for the detention of Liu, a renowned literary critic who gained fame as a dissident in the 1989 student-led pro-democracy movement that was crushed by the military with heavy loss of life.
Liu has been active in recent months, sending several daring, open letters to the government.
On September 30, Liu and Wang issued a statement urging China's communist authorities to honour a promise in 1945 to give people freedom of the press and speech and to form political parties and stage demonstrations.
In a bold move, the two demanded Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin be indicted, impeached and step down for violating the constitution for saying the People's Liberation Army was under the "absolute leadership" of the party instead of the state.
Wang did not return home on Tuesday and his wife said she was very worried because he had not responded to his pager.
Wang was paroled in 1993 after serving 12 years of a 14-year term for sedition and remains deprived of his political rights. He is one of China's most outspoken proponents of democracy.
Liu was last detained by police in 1995 after orchestrating several daring petitions to parliament by dissidents and intellectuals in the early months of the year. He was held for seven months without charges until being released in January.
His sentence comes shortly after Chinese sources said dissident and former student leader Wang Dan faced a second jail term after prosecutors charged him recently with subversion.
Wang, 26, faces up to seven years in jail on charges of counter-revolutionary incitement -- or subversion.
Wang, who is believed to have worked with Liu on several daring petitions, was detained in May, 1995 in the run-up to the sixth anniversary of the June 1989 military crackdown.
Are you a businessman looking for generous tax breaks, lengthy tax holidays, easy loans, clean air and spectacular scenery?
Then Tibet may be your answer -- that is, if you don't mind high transport costs, frequent power outages and temperamental telephone lines.
Beijing has given unparalleled privileges to try to attract foreign investors to this remote, rugged, restive and poverty-stricken region. Those policies are starting to pay off, albeit slowly, officials said.
"This year circumstances are rather improved as a result of our new policies to foreign investors," Wang Yaju, vice director of the Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation of the Tibet Autonomous Region, said in an interview.
He said the new, preferential policies unveiled last year had already paid off with 14 new foreign investment projects approved this year. That compared with the establishment of just 61 joint ventures between 1988 and 1995.
Wang said he was optimistic that a planned $48 million 50-50 venture between Taiwan's Kwang Yang Motors and Tibet's Summit Motor to produce motorcycle engines in neighbouring Sichuan province would be successful.
The plant would be registered in Tibet, pay taxes to that region and enjoy its tax breaks.
Most members of Tibet's tiny community of foreign investors seem attracted both by the tax holidays and the scenic beauty.
For example, John McKay of Santa Cruz, Calif., set up the Tibet Plateau Cashmere Co. with a U.S. company and a private Tibetan partner. The three-way partnership will process cashmere with the goal of producing finished knitwear.
The joint venture is exempt from income tax for the first five years after it makes a profit, and then pays only half the national rate of tax for the following five years.
Wading through the Chinese bureaucracy for the necessary permits was a frustrating and time-consuming process, McKay said, echoing the experiences of other investors in the region as well as throughout much of China.
Red tape appeared to be less entangling than in other regions, however.
Also, investors said they had considered the risks from possible anti-Chinese violence, but believed the profits outweighed potential losses.
"I don't think this (unrest) is very likely," said McKay.
"There's enough control here that it would cut off anything before it got started," said another businessman who declined to be identified. "Tibetans are resigned to it and accept the way things are."
Kesang Rigdol, a Nepali Tibetan who set up his Tibet Snowland Restaurant in the centre of Lhasa last year, did not dodge the difficulties of setting up a business in a land supposed to be the fabled Shangri-La.
Rigdol owns 63 percent and invested $40,000 in the restaurant, which many say is the best eatery in Lhasa, while his Tibetan partner, who provided the site, holds 37 percent.
"Everything we were able to do was because of the policy on joint ventures," he said.
Despite the long, bitter winter that keeps away most of the tourists who are his main customers, Rigdol is already considering setting up a second joint venture, a dairy farm.
"We can't get good quality milk and cream here," he said, adding that skilled labour was also a serious problem.
Rigdol employs Nepali cooks and had hoped to teach Tibetans culinary skills. "But Tibetans don't seem to want to learn," he said. "They are not interested at all."
Foreign trade officials said they welcomed such small ventures, but were also eager to lure bigger investments, while recognising that the lack of a railroad, power shortages and limited flights hampered their bargaining power.
As part of a move to publicise opportunities in the vast, resource-rich but inaccessible region and escape their communications difficulties, Tibet authorities are preparing to launch a site on the Internet, the worldwide computer network.
Wang said investors in power plants, mineral resources and infrastructure were more than welcome.
Officials of the Tibet Department of Geology and Minerals said they were hoping the regional government would soon issue special regulations covering foreign investment in the region's underground resources.
Tibet wanted foreign firms to join forces in exploration for mineral resources, particularly copper, chromite, antimony and borax, said Wang Baosheng of the Department of Foreign Trade.
"This could lead to good opportunities for them to take part in exploitation of these resources," he said. "This place has great potential, if you invest here you will have very good returns."
The Hong Kong government said it is focusing on negotiating new overflight arrangements with several countries in time for the 1997 handover to China.
Up to now, Hong Kong has come under Britain's traffic rights umbrella. Now it must negotiate its own agreements so airlines can continue to fly over countries on key air routes, the government said.
A spokesman said the countries involved are located on routes from Hong Kong to Europe and to Africa, which are not signatories to International Air Services Transit Agreements with.
He declined to name them or say which negotiations were the most important as overflight fees will also be discussed and more pressure could be brought to bear on Hong Kong's negotiators.
Industry observers said the government is up against the clock to sign the new agreements before next year's handover.
"Some countries will be no problem, others may be sticklers," said a source close to the negotiating procedure.
Any proposed deal must be approved by the Joint Liaison Group, the Sino-British body set up to oversee the transition to Chinese rule. The text of a model overflight agreement to be used as the basis for the negotiations was cleared by the JLG in September.
Michael Arnold, who will be Hong Kong's chief negotiator, told Reuters that the negotiations will start as soon as possible with airlines fully involved. He said the agreements which are a form of international treaty will give greater certainty of routes.
"On flights to Europe, for example, given weather and the sometimes unstable political situation in some countries, the airlines need to have access to alternative routes. We need overflight agreements with a number of countries in order to offer several route options," he said.
He said overflight rights are now a priority following the successful completion of Hong Kong's final Air Service Agreement (ASA) with the Philippines last week.
"The number one task was to negotiate full ASAs to separate Hong Kong's air services from those previously provided for under the UK ASAs. This we have completed with the initialling of the Philippines agreement. We can now turn to focus on negotiating overflights," Arnold said.
When asked about overflight costs and whether airlines faced an increase Arnold said: "We would hope to continue the present arrangements, obtained under the UK umbrella." -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017
China has tightened safety measures after a fatal rocket explosion early this year and has found the cause of another launch failure in August, Chinese space officials said on Wednesday.
Further testing was needed for the Long March 3 rocket and that could delay China's launch schedule, they said.
"Launch vehicles will now self-destruct if there is a failure," said Zhang Qingwei, vice president of the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology.
"We will also ensure that people (living in the area of space centres) will be moved away when we conduct a launch," he told an international conference on space technology.
A Long March 3B rocket exploded shortly after launch in February, killing six people and injuring 57, according to official reports.
Unofficial sources have put the casualty toll much higher.
China's commercial space drive suffered another setback in August when a communications satellite failed to reach proper orbit after launch aboard a Long March 3 rocket.
"We have determined the cause of the August 18 failure and have taken corrective measures," said Zhang, adding that the problem stemmed from a faulty hydrogen valve on the third stage of the booster rocket.
"We are still conducting ground testing," he said. "There will be delays (in the Long March 3) programme this year but this will not affect other Long March vehicles."
An official of the China Aerospace Corporation, which oversees commercial satellite launches, said a Long March 3 rocket could be launched by the end of the year or early next year.
Two other launches using the Long March 2D and Long March 3A rockets were also expected to be made by the end of the year.
In January 1995, a Long March rocket blew up, killing six people and destroying the Apstar 2 satellite it was carrying.
China once enjoyed a reputation of being a cheap and reliable provider of satellite launch services but the string of failures has shaken its hopes of playing a bigger role in the commercial space business.
A senior U.S. official on Wednesday praised Beijing's approach to international arms control but hinted at continuing concerns over the possible proliferation of Chinese nuclear and missile technology.
The rebirth of an arms control dialogue stalled by Sino-U.S. disagreements over Taiwan over the last year was a major step to bridging differences between Washington and Beijing, said John Holum, director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
"Chinese positions have evolved in a very constructive direction," Holum told a news conference in Beijing on the third day of a five-day visit to China.
"China genuinely has been playing a much more active and very constructive role in arms control negotiations," he said, citing Beijing's role in negotiations towards a global nuclear test ban and for a cut-off of production of nuclear fissile material.
Holum's meetings with Chinese officials are part of a series of high-level talks intended to buttress Sino-U.S. ties, chilled by a 1995 visit to the United States by Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui and by rows over copyright, trade and human rights.
Cross-Pacific relations hit a new low last March when China carried out missile tests and military exercises in the seas near Taiwan, which Beijing considers a rebel province, prompting Washington to send two aircraft carriers to the area.
A July visit to Beijing by U.S. national security adviser Anthony Lake was seen by analysts as a vital step to restoring some sense of stability to a vital diplomatic relationship.
The Sino-U.S. disputes had restricted talks on arms control and proliferation issues, Holum told reporters.
"We've obviously had an interruption of our dialogue in these areas as a result of the Lee visit and the missile activities and so on," he said. "We are starting to get past that and to renew the strategic dialogue."
Talks with Vice Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing and other officials had touched on alleged sales of Chinese missile technology to Pakistan and Beijing's civil nuclear cooperation with Iran, he said.
The Washington Post in August said U.S. intelligence officials had concluded Pakistan was secretly building a factory to make medium-range missiles using Chinese blueprints and equipment.
The report was the latest allegation of Sino-Pakistan military cooperation to raise hackles in Washington, which has in the past imposed sanctions on both for alleged missile transfers.
"There have been reports in the press and elsewhere of further missile transfers of technology," Holum said.
"We have not made the determination, based on the information that we have, that any further sanctions are warranted, but we routinely raise our concerns about these issues with the Chinese," he said.
U.S. concerns over nuclear exports to Pakistan had been much relieved by Beijing's commitment in May not to provide assistance to unsafeguarded nuclear facilities, he said.
Washington continued to believe that no country should share nuclear technology with Iran, a view China did not share, he said, adding that his talks had brought progress in harmonising Chinese and U.S. positions but no concrete deals.
"I didn't come here expecting any specific agreements, I was expecting we would close the gap," he said. "The contact and the discussion is important because it creates a venue and an opportunity for resolving the issues."
General Motors Corp. may face mounting losses as the strike against its Canadian operations heads for a second week, but GM Chairman Jack Smith Wednesday vowed not give up his quest for competitiveness.
The last of 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers members are set to strike GM plants at midnight Wednesday, bringing the automaker closer to parts shortages and assembly plant shutdowns in the United States.
The strike will inevitably affect GM's U.S. plants, but they can "run for a while" before a shutdown, said G. Richard Wagoner, president of GM's North American Operations.
But Smith, who met with reporters at GM's Technical Center to receive a new J.D. Power and Associates award, said some of the union's demands on outsourcing -- the shifting of work to outside, often non-union companies -- are unacceptable.
"We've got certain things that will cripple the company if we don't get fixed right," Smith said. "There's a couple (items) on the table that we need to work our way through, otherwise we will not be competitive."
He said GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, needs to sell certain parts plants, despite the CAW's objections, because their wage structures are too high for GM to compete effectively.
Smith also said GM was in a strong financial position to handle the strike, with $13 billion in cash, and a fully funded pension plan.
Adding to its wherewithal, GM also on Wednesday filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that would allow it to sell up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Despite the labor strife, Smith credited both U.S. and Canadian workers for helping GM win J.D. Power's first-ever Chairman's Award, which recognizes its gains in quality and customer satisfaction.
Smith also said GM continued to have a "constructive dialogue" with the United Auto Workers hoped to reach a labor agreement coviering 215,000 U.S. hourly workers soon.
Although GM so far has been able to avoid major U.S. shutdowns from the Canadian strike, analysts said the first casualties may be the company's Cadillac luxury car plant in Hamtramck, Mich., which uses trim components made at a Windsor, Ontario, plant set to go on strike Wednesday.
GM's small and mid-size car plants in Lansing, Mich., Lordstown, Ohio, and Oklahoma City, Okla., also are in danger of shutdowns, because they use transmissions from another Windsor plant to be struck Wednesday.
The Oklahoma City plant is in the midst of launching two important new mid-size sedans, the 1997 Chevrolet Malibu and Oldsmobile Cutlass.
The cars, slightly smaller than the Ford Taurus and expected to be priced in the $15,000-$17,000 range, could help GM regain a sizeable piece of the mid-size car market, a segment it once dominated.
GM also is launching an all-new Pontiac Grand Prix sedan and a trio of new minivans that are viewed as the automaker's first serious challenge to Chrysler Corp.'s dominance of the segment.
Analysts said the Canadian strike, if it continues, will wreak havoc on the production and marketing launches of the products and hand market share gains to Chrysler, Ford Motor Co. and import manufacturers. The only new car to reach dealers in significant volume has been the Grand Prix.
"There was some very strong opportunity for them to gain share with some of the new vehicles," said Wesley Brown, an analyst with CSM Forecasting, an automotive consulting firm in Farmington Hills, Mich. "This will push back their launches."
Dean Witter auto analyst Kenneth Blaschke estimates that a three-week Canadian strike will cost GM about $700 million in profits. A 17-day strike at two Dayton, Ohio, parts plants in March reduced the automaker's first quarter profits by $900 million.
But Wall Street analysts maintain the costs, both in profits and lost market share, are worth it if GM can retain the right to shift parts work to outside suppliers and sell unprofitable plants.
The Food and Drug Administration is approving new drugs and medical devices at a rapid clip this year, heartening drug and device companies that have long criticised the agency.
In the federal fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the agency cleared for U.S. marketing 46 new drugs, up from 26 approvals in fiscal 1995, the agency said.
In the same period, 37 new medical devices were cleared, up from 27 the year before, according to a tally kept by Montgomery Securities, an investments firm.
"What you are seeing is the culmination of improvements in the review system that date back 10 years or more," said FDA associate commissioner for public affairs Jim O'Hara.
Even long-time FDA critic the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, or PHARMA, sounded congratulatory, albeit with reservations. "Improvments have been made in the last couple of years," said Jeff Trewhitt, PHARMA spokesman.
Two bills before Congress that proposed more flexible and shorter FDA new drug reviews died without action with the adjournment of the House and Senate last week, a sign that the agency's actions have blunted attacks from outside critics.
Drug and medical device industry analysts said faster FDA approvals are helping companies in both sectors by reducing their research and development risks.
A year ago, companies had complained that burdensome U.S. regulatory oversight threatened to drive U.S. drug and medical technology research to Europe, known for speedier reviews.
But a study released this spring showed the FDA's median review time for new drugs approved in 1994 and 1995 was 1.3 years, as fast as that of Britain and faster than those of France, Spain, Germany, Australia, Japan, Italy and Canada, according to the FDA. The study was conducted by the British-based Centre for Medicines Research, the agency said.
"In 1996, the U.S. is reviewing and approving ... faster than any other country," O'Hara said.
He credited internal reforms at the FDA largely to passage by Congress in 1992 of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which made more money available to the agency through a system of user fees imposed on companies.
Those revenues have paid for the hiring of more reviewers and upgrading of FDA information systems, he said.
The stock of American Medical Response Inc. fell sharply for the second consecutive session Wednesday on concern that the Aurora, Colo.-based ambulance company is straying from its successful acquisition strategy.
The steep decline came after American Medical Response announced Tuesday an agreement to buy STAT Healthcare Inc. in a stock transaction valued at $145 million.
The planned acquisition moves American Medical Response, which has bought 69 ambulance companies since 1992, into hospital emergency rooms and disease management.
The stock of American Medical Response tumbled $4 on the New York Stock Exchange to $30.50. The stock dropped $3 after the transaction was announced on Tuesday.
Wall Street analysts said the deal was strategically sound from a long-term perspective, but noted that investors were wary of the company's shift into a new area.
"The scepticism, which we don't share, is related to the company's going into a business outside their consolidation within the ambulance industry," said Randall Huyser of Furman Selz.
Houston-based STAT Healthcare provides staffing for hospital emergency rooms. It also offers outpatient medical services such as kidney dialysis.
Industry sources also cited the company's prediction the deal will slightly dilute earnings this year.
In a conference call with investors and analysts on Tuesday, American Medical Response said the transaction will add to earnings in 1997. It also anticipated cost savings of $2.5 million from the merger.
Industry analysts noted that the acquisition marked a logical extension of its existing services by branching out into the hospital emergency room and providing more services for clients.
"They're taking it beyond just driving you to the hospital," said Clifford Hewitt of Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co Inc.
Industry sources also noted that shareholders of STAT Healthcare were likely to be concerned about the steep stock decline because the transaction was not based on any fixed price for American Medical Response shares. The deal calls for each share of STAT common stock to be converted into one-quarter share of American Medical Response.
Officials from both companies could not be reached for comment.
STAT stock fell 87.5 cents to $7.375 on Nasdaq.
Analysts expect American Medical Response to continue its tradition of buying ambulance companies as it works to integrate the STAT acquisition.
"I think the outlook for this company is very good. There are 12,000 ambulance companies in the U.S. and they aren't geared to the needs of medical care as it is evolving," said Hewitt.
With the dark cloud of high raw material costs now clearing, large U.S. newspapers companies are expected to report good third-quarter earnings despite weak growth in advertising.
"I keep hearing good news out of these guys, and they're all smiling about newsprint," said Prudential Securities newspaper industry analyst James Marsh.
Newsprint for newspapers now costs an average $550 a ton, much less than the average forecast of $600 a ton at the start of 1996, he said. Per ton prices peaked at $743 last January.  
"Trends in advertising have been a little sluggish, but with lower newsprint costs, most newspapers should have a strong quarter," said newspaper industry analyst Edward Atorino at Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Retail advertising were tepid through late summer, after rising only about one percent during the first half of the year, compared with the first six months of 1995, analysts said.
Classified advertising rose 10 percent in the first half but likely cooled in the third quarter, Atorino said.  
Times Mirror Co will enjoy an especially strong lift from newsprint savings because of its inventory accounting methods and a sharp decline in its consumption of newsprint this year after shutting two big city papers, Marsh said.
"The fall in newsprint prices coupled with ongoing cost reduction efforts will result in strong second-half earnings for newspaper publishing companies this year and provide further benefit into 1997," Atorino said in a written report.
Calendar third quarter returns for hotly-competitive Internet stocks will reflect the sacrifice of near-term profits for longer-term growth, analysts said.
Many Internet startups are still fighting to build market share and are expected to continue posting quarterly losses.
"Everything's moving quickly, but people still have to digest the technology, and pay for it...sorting out the winners from the losers and the also rans," said Steve Harmon, senior investement analyst at Mecklermedia's iWORLD.  
Typical of the scurry to capture market share by making targeted investments early is Yahoo! Inc.
Yahoo!, started by two venture-backed Stanford University students two years ago to help people navigate the far-flung World Wide Web, has been building on its branded media model during its second full quarter after its initial offering.
The search engine pioneer is due to report after the market close today on its results for the third quarter, and analysts expect a $0.07 a share loss, according to First Call.  
Yahoo! has begun opening metropolitan services in U.S. cities and internationally in Japan and Britain; subject-area services such as quotes and map or individual lookup pages; and demographic offerings like Yahooligans for kids.
Yahoo! has already supplied clues to its quarterly performance potential.  Last week it released traffic figures showing it had one billion full-page "hits" in the quarter.
Also expanding internationally, in league with overseas media firms such as Bertelsmann AG, is navigator firm Lycos Inc, which last month reported a loss of $0.16 a share for its fourth fiscal quarter ended in July.  
Infoseek Corp, which has tuned its speedy search technology to target business users in particular, is due to report a third quarter loss of $0.18 a share on October 21.
And on the same day, Excite Inc, which bought out rival McKinley Group this summer and which like Yahoo! and Infoseek has been expanding personalized searching, is expected to post a $0.35 a share loss for the quarter.
Like other subgroups of the Internet sector, financial analysts expect further consolidation in the sector over time.
Netscape Communications Corp is prominent among the handful of Internet-linked shares seen reporting profits.  
By shifting from browsers to tools, Spyglass has racked up steady profits.
Among Internet service providers, First call consensus estimates for Netcom On-Line Communications Inc are for a loss of $1.25 in its third quarter, wider than $0.49 a year ago, while PSINet Inc is expected to narrow its loss to $0.29 from $0.40 in the year-earlier third quarter.
Open Market Inc, which Tuesday unveiled a deal with AT&amp;T Corp, is seen posting a $0.23 a share third quarter loss.  
"This convergence of capital, creativity and opportunity is unprecedented in at least 15 or 20 years and that makes for some hot growth, top and bottom line, but it still takes time to build that bottom line," said Harmon.
    COMPANY    QTR    FIRST CALL CONSENSUS EPS  YEAR-AGO
    Yahoo! Corp	   Q3 $0.07 loss    n/a
Netscape Comms Corp Q3 $0.08 profit $0.02 profit
    Spyglass Inc	  Q4 $0.08 profit $0.06 profit
    NETCOM On-Line	Q3 $1.25 loss   $0.49 loss
    PSINet Inc	    Q3 $0.29 loss   $0.40 loss
    Open Market	   Q3 $0.23 loss    n/a
Raptor Systems Inc  Q3 $0.03 profit $0.10 loss
    Check Point	  Q3 $0.09 profit $0.05 profit
    America Online Inc   Q1 $0.18 profit $0.08 profit
*consensus estimates/comparables calculated by First Call
NOTE: Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.
Having completed its initial public offering in August 1995, six months before the search engine firms, Netscape had just emerged as a winner from the first round of battles for browser market dominance only to find software giant Microsoft Corp muscling into the market this year.
Netscape, which is expected to unveil new alliances and technology at its developers' conference next week, is seen on October 22 reporting a third quarter profit of $0.08 a share.
Also according to First Call, Spyglass Inc is on November 1 expected to report a per-share profit of $0.08 for its fourth fiscal quarter to the end of September. -sam.perry@reuters.com, Palo Alto Bureau, +1 415 846 5400
There are no signs of slackening demand for new telephone lines or services like caller ID at the regional Bells and GTE Corp, and earnings growth will remain robust in the third quarter.
"We are still seeing very strong demand for new services across the board," said Bette Massick of brokers Bear Stearns.
While regional Bell earnings growth is still above historic trends, Merrill Lynch analyst Dan Reingold expects third quarter average annual growth of 8.1 percent to fall short of the 9.6 percent set in the buoyant second quarter.  
Analysts' buy ratings generally favor Ameritech Corp, with BellSouth Corp, SBC Communications Inc and non-Bell company GTE close behind.
"Given continued strong growth in underlying operations, certain Bell stocks look attractive at the moment," said Guy Woodlief of Dean Witter Reynolds, whose favorites are Ameritech and GTE.
Regional Bells have badly trailed the broad market this year after last year's bullish outperformance, hit by fears of stiffer competition in the new unified market place.  
The Federal Communications Commission has made it clear that the Telecom Act of 1996 means Bells will have to face substantive competition before they can enter long distance markets in their own local calling regions.
GTE is an exception.  It already has long distance services in 23 states and has over 250,000 customers.
"I'm sure you will see the effect of GTE long distance operations as a minor cost pressure," said Massick.  She said it would take several years for the service to break even.  
Regional Bells are operating under a more favorable regulatory regime than two years ago, allowing them to cut costs without sharing the savings with consumers.
"With prices instead of earnings regulated, unit growth and cost reductions are flowing to the bottom line," Reingold said in a recent research report.
Company   (all in dollars)    Q3 est   yr ago  results date
Ameritech..................0.94.......0.84..Oct 15
SBC Communications.........0.95.......0.88..Oct 16
Bell Atlantic..............1.09.......1.01..Oct 17
BellSouth..................0.62.......0.56..Oct 17
GTE Corp...................0.78.......0.71..Oct 17
Pacific Telesis............0.68.......0.64..Oct 17
NYNEX Corp.................0.93.......0.86..Oct 22
US West Comms.......0.60.......0.59..Oct 23
NOTE: U S West Communications Group.
Estimates from First Call. Reporting dates from analysts.  
Cellular and other wireless services continue to be a big money earners for the Bells, though increased price competition is expected during 1997 as Personal Communications Services (PCS) increase to five from two the number of wireless telephone providers in each metropolitan area.
Even the advent of two mega mergers -- Bell Atlantic Corp and NYNEX Corp and SBC Communications and Pacific Telesis Group -- announced earlier this year has done little to enliven the sector.
While the effect of competition is an unknown, cost cuts can be solidly charted.
With the strike against General Motors in Canada headed for a second week, the automaker's losses will start mounting as its U.S. plants are forced to shut down, delaying the launch of important new models, analysts said Wednesday.
The walkout by the Canadian Auto Workers union is set to spread to two key components plants in Windsor, Ontario, Wednesday at midnight, which could cause the first shutdowns of GM's U.S. assembly plants by early next week. Much of GM's core North American automotive business could be crippled in about two weeks if the strike is not resolved.
"Once you start shutting assembly plants, the other plants start shutting very quickly," said Wesley Brown, an analyst at CSM Forecasting, an automotive consulting firm in Farmington Hills, Mich.
The expected first casualties will be GM's Cadillac luxury car plant in Hamtramck, Mich., which uses trim components made in Windsor, and GM's small and mid-size car plants in Lansing, Mich., Lordstown, Ohio, and Oklahoma City, Okla., which use transmissions from Windsor.
The Oklahoma City plant is in the midst of launching two important new mid-size sedans, the 1997 Chevrolet Malibu and Oldsmobile Cutlass.
The cars, slightly smaller than the Ford Taurus and expected to be priced in the $15,000-$17,000 range, could help GM regain a sizeable piece of the mid-size car market, a segment it once dominated.
GM also is launching an all-new Pontiac Grand Prix sedan and a trio of new minivans that are viewed as the automaker's first serious challenge to Chrysler Corp.'s dominance of the segment.
Analysts said the Canadian strike, if it continues, will wreak havoc on the production and marketing launches of the products and hand market share gains to Chrysler, Ford Motor Co. and import manufacturers. The only new car to reach dealers in significant volume has been the Grand Prix.
"There was some very strong opportunity for them to gain share with some of the new vehicles," Brown said. "This will push back their launches."
Dean Witter auto analyst Kenneth Blaschke estimates that a three-week Canadian strike will cost GM about $700 million in profits. A 17-day strike at two Dayton, Ohio, parts plants in March reduced the automaker's first quarter profits by $900 million.
But Wall Street analysts maintain the costs, both in profits and lost market share, are worth it if GM can retain the right to shift parts work to outside suppliers and sell unprofitable plants.
Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi said investors would be extremely disappointed if GM caves in to the Canadian Auto Workers' demands to restrict outsourcing.
"They've got to do whatever it takes to get competitive," he said. "They cannot be focused on short-term considerations of market share."
He also noted that with $13 billion in cash reserves, virtually no debt and a fully funded pension plan, GM is in a strong position to take a longer strike. "They aren't the financial cripple they were in 1993," he said.
James Harbour, an automotive manufacturing consultant based in Troy, Mich., said he believes GM is finally determined to retain control of its sourcing decisions.
"This is a battle for the right to run their company," Harbour said. "It's going to be a long cold winter."
Lower profits from base metals producers are clouding the otherwise improving corporate earnings picture for Canadian companies in the third quarter, analysts said.
Richardson Greenshields of Canada analyst Dunnery Best forecast "very substantial declines in earnings" for major base metal firms.
"I think almost everywhere else you're going to see improvements year-over-year," Best said.  
Canada's third-quarter earnings season kicks off when Alcan Aluminium Ltd reports on Thursday.
Best said he expected Alcan third-quarter earnings to fall to US$0.35 a share from year earlier US$0.61 a share, which came before an extraordinary loss of US$1.24 a share for an asset writedown.
"There's some concerns that the metal group may not exactly report the (expected) numbers," Griffiths McBurney analyst Greg Misztela said.  
Companies such as Inco Ltd, Noranda Inc and Falconbridge Ltd would likely see earnings declines, Best said. A likely exception was Teck Corp, which Best said "has a lot of coal in its production lineup and coal's been strong, so that will be the one offset."
Investors had anticipated disappointments, causing metal stock prices to slide after second-quarter earnings were hit by a drop in copper, nickel and other prices.  
Markets were rocked in mid-June by the news that Sumitomo Corp fired its head copper trader after he allegedly ran up a US$1.8 billion loss.
Analysts forecast that Canada's major banks would lead the pack in earnings gains. The banks are expected to report their results for the fourth quarter ended October 31 in early December.
"They'll have a very good year-over-year comparison. I think quarter-over-quarter won't be quite as good," said Royal Bank of Canada vice-president of equities John Kellett.  
The six big banks, including Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, have posted a string of record profits in recent years.
Best said Richardson Greenshields had increased earnings estimates for Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce six times so far this year.
Consumer products earnings will also rise, analysts said.
Another strong area will be Canada's important gold sector, which was buoyed by firmer bullion prices.
Earnings at energy firms will be fueled by higher crude oil prices, analysts said.  
Retail firms will benefit from recent cuts in short-term interest rates by Canada's central bank, spurring consumers to borrow and shop. "Bit by bit the underpinnings are being put in place for a more confident consumer that would eventually lead to better times," Kellett said.
Some high-technology firms have said they would report losses in the upcoming quarter, including Gandalf Technologies Inc and Corel Corp, due to problems getting their products to market.  
Technology heavyweights such as Northern Telecom Ltd and Newbridge Networks Corp will see higher earnings, Best said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416-941-8100
Strong demand for light trucks and relatively few production headaches boosted the combined profits of the Big Three U.S. automakers to nearly $2 billion in the third quarter, exceeding year-ago results by a healthy margin, analysts said.
The third quarter is traditionally the industry's weakest, with summer vacations and model changeovers, but strong minivan and truck output helped buoy profits at Chrysler Corp and Ford Motor Co, they said.  
General Motors Corp operating earnings were held back by a significant increase in U.S. incentives, analysts said.
In the third quarter of 1995 the three automakers earned a combined total of $1.35 billion.
"It'll be a good quarter overall for the Big Three," said Dean Witter Reynolds Inc analyst Kenneth Blaschke. "The issue that remains is how long the strike in Canada against GM will last."
GM is expected to report third quarter net income of about $850 million, or $1.02 a share, according to First Call.  
The results will include an after-tax gain of $250 million, or $0.33 a share, from the reversal of GM's decision to close its Wilmington, Del., plant and build a new Saturn model there at the end of the decade.
In the year-ago third quarter GM earned $642 million, or $0.42 a share, including $246 million in earnings from Electronic Data Systems Corp, the computer services unit spun off by GM in June.
Burnham Securities analyst David Healy said GM's worldwide car and truck production rose 11 percent in the third quarter over a year ago.  
But a heavier mix of less-expensive vehicles and a $230 increase in incentives per vehicle squeezed GM profit margins, which likely resulted in a small pretax loss in North America during the period, he said.
GM is to report third quarter results on October 15.
On an operating basis, Ford's third quarter profits are expected to increase 78 percent, to $637 million, or $0.51 a share, from $357 million, or $0.28, a year earlier, marking the biggest rebound of the Big Three. Ford results are due October 16.  
The strength at Ford largely rides on the fact that it is not paying the enormous product launch costs for the Taurus sedan and F-Series pickup truck that dragged down year-ago results.
Ford also is beginning to reap profits from the F-Series and the Expedition full-size sport utility vehicle, which have brightened the automaker's outlook.
"We think Ford's new products will enable it to gain an increased share going forward, and as a result Ford's earnings momentum should continue," Blaschke said.  
Ford's profits would have been even better but for losses in Brazil and Argentina that the automaker warned about in September.
Ford is scambling to put its Fiesta small car into production in Brazil following the breakup of the company's Autolatina joint venture with Volkswagen AG in 1995.
Chrysler's third quarter profits, scheduled for release October 14, are expected to increase 41 percent, to about $500 million, or $0.69 a share, from $354 million, or $0.48, a year earlier.
Chrysler also experienced launch problems in the year-ago period in its all-important minivan product lines.
This year, it is churning out minivans and Dodge Ram pickup trucks and has raised its share of the U.S. vehicle market to record levels. The launch glitches have not returned, and the company's new Dodge Dakota compact pickup truck is proceeding ahead of schedule, analysts said.
"Chrysler has everthing going for it right now and it should be reflected in the earnings," said Bear Stearns &amp; Co analyst Nicholas Lobocarro.
He said he would not be surprised if the automaker's results exceeded Wall Street estimates.
Privatised nuclear power generator British Energy Plc sparked criticism on Wednesday when it announced job cuts that failed to impress the stock market and angered unions.
"I don't think this move transforms (British Energy's) prospects at all," said Philip Hollobone, utilities analyst at Williams de Broe.
British Energy said in a statement it aimed to cut 1,460 jobs in Scotland and Wales to make savings in staff costs of 50 million pounds ($78 million) within three years.
It said it would have a one-off restructuring charge of 100 million pounds which was already provided for.
Chief executive Robert Hawley said there could be more savings to come as cuts in office costs came through.
Union representatives slammed the move in a statement as "a high risk strategy," warning that job cuts could "reduce training, lower standards and threaten safety."
The Nuclear Installations Inspectorate (NII), part of Britain's Health and Safety Executive, said it would review the plans and take action if it felt safety would suffer.
"If we think (the plans) are adverse (for safety), we will use regulatory powers to stop (British Energy) doing them," a spokesman for the NII said.
But Hawley maintained that "safety is our bottom line, not profit."
British Energy's debut on the stock exchange in July was overshadowed by temporary closures of two of its eight reactors after cracks were discovered.
Shares kicked off below the partly-paid issue price of 105 pence to institutions and 100 pence to small investors and have rarely moved above those levels, mangaging just a half penny rise on the day on Wednesday to stand at 108 pence at 1130 GMT.
The ruling Conservative government pressed ahead with its privatisation despite the deep unpopularity of the deal and has been left with a stake of around 12 percent.
The opposition Labour Party also criticised the job cuts, which energy and industry spokesman John Battle said showed British Energy "has not performed as they promised they would."
He called on the company to confirm its dividend policy which it has said is vulnerable to underperformance by nuclear power stations.
Although Hawley maintained the company's plans were aimed at making "absolutely sure we are competitive in the market place," analysts expressed concern it faced stiff challenges and remained an unattractive investment.
"They are under pressure," said Marshall Whiting of Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull (SGST).
Whiting said the crucial factor for British Energy was price of electricity in the so-called "pool," or wholesale market.
"Pressure on electricity prices is downward in the medium to long term. (British Energy) has to address operating costs to get profits to stand still," he said.
Hollobone said the cost cuts should make predictions for dividend growth more secure but added that these were still below market averages.
"Dividend growth is one of the lowest in the sector and there is no sign of a special dividend," he said.
British Energy said at its privatisation that the first interim dividend would be 4.6 pence a share and forecasts for final dividend are for 9.1 pence in 1996/97.
"You can get better value elsewhere. Why invest in British Energy?" Hollobone said. ($1=.6393 Pound)
Austin Reed Group Plc supplier of pinstriped suits to generations of British businessmen, said on Wednesday that a return to favour with women executives helped to boost its first-half profits and sales.
The group, which has around 50 stores in the UK and sells its classic-cut styles in Europe, Japan and the U.S., saw first half profits jump 64 percent to 2.3 million pounds ($3.6 million) while sales climbed 7.0 percent to 38.9 million pounds.
New chief executive Chris Thomson said in an interview that a turnaround in womens' clothing, which now accounts for around 20 percent of sales, was a key factor behind the gains.
He said the 1995 spring collection for women had been a "bit of disaster," when Austin Reed's ranges "didn't sell and we had to substantially discount to get rid of stock, so we are delighted by the way it's come back so successfully."
Austin Reed, which began life in 1900 as a gentlemen's outfitters in Fenchurch Street in the heart of the City, said there are encouraging signs of a rise in UK consumer activity.
"We are trading in a very competitive market," Thomson said, but he added that the group's autumn sales are ahead by around nine percent so far from a year ago.
The company plans to step up sales of its branded clothing through German, French and Italian retailers in particular.
"The Austin Reed brand is well known in Europe, being a quintessentially British brand, and I think there are tremendous opportunities to expand that," Thomson said.
It is also looking to expand its UK retail chain, with new outlets in the heart of London's financial district, a new shopping centre in Dartford and the upmarket Manchester dormitory town of Wilmslow all in its sights. ($1=.6401 Pound)
The Internet may be overflowing with new technology but crime in cyberspace is still of the old-fashioned variety.
The National Consumers League said Wednesday that the most popular scam on the Internet was the pyramid scheme, in which early investors in a bogus fund are paid off with deposits of later investors.
The league, a non-profit consumer advocacy group, tracks web scams through a site it set up on the world wide web in February called Internet Fraud Watch at http://www.fraud.org.
The site, which collects reports directly from consumers, has been widely praised by law enforcement agencies.
"Consumers who suspect a scam on the Internet have critical information," said Jodie Bernstein, director of the Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Consumer Protection. Internet Fraud Watch "has been a major help to the FTC in identifying particular scams in their infancy."
In May, for example, the commission used Internet reports to shut down a site run by Fortuna Alliance that had taken in over $6 million, promising investors they could earn $5,000 a month from an initial deposit of $250. Instead, Fortuna kept most of the money, the commission charged.
Fraud reports from the league's site, which has been visited over 370,000 times, are forwarded to local, state and federal authorities.
The second-most-popular Internet scam, the league said, was the sale of bogus Internet services, such as custom designed web sites or Internet access accounts.
In third place were crooks who sell computer equipment, such as memory chips or sound boards, over the net and then deliver significantly lower quality goods or nothing at all, the league said.
Other top scams involve business opportunities. Con artists may offer shares in a business or franchise using unreasonable predictions or misrepresentations. One popular scheme promised to let consumers get rich while working at home.
The League also announced Tuesday that NationsBank had donated $100,000 to become a sponsor of the Fraud Watch site.
Czech National Bank (CNB) Governor Josef Tosovsky on Friday said the central bank was committed to keeping the crown strong, despite some calls to devalue the appreciating currency to help exports.
Speaking after a meeting with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus and top business executives, Tosovsky said the central bank would keep the crown within the current band within which it fixes the currency daily against a mark/dollar basket.
"I said that we will try to keep the rate within the plus/minus 7.5 percent band (agains the mark/dollar cross rate)," Tosovsky told reporters.
"I dismissed speculation that we would want to move the crown in some way outside the band," he added.
Analysts recently have been debating whether a devaluation of the crown might be needed to boost exports and help stem a ballooning current account deficit.
The trade deficit is threatening to send the current account shortfall to close to six percent of gross domestic product this year after about four percent last year.
Some have argued that a devaluation is still required to help the country's goods to remain competitive while wages are rising and the economy is still transforming.
But others have said that the foreign capital inflow is still comfortably paying for the imports, and the current account deficit is still not dangerous.
Tosovsky said a stable crown had served its purpose in regulating the country's inflation, and a stronger crown would have positive effects on reforming Czech industry to make it more competitive.
He said a stronger crown "should help faster restructuring of our economy, to help increase the added-value faster...and to help to bring our country closer in productivity to the countries that we want to compare ourselves with."
The latter was a clear reference to the European Union and especially neighbouring Germany.
The central bank fixes the crown daily within a band plus or minus 7.5 percent from the central parity of the mark/crown basket.
It has been fixing it recently at more than three percent above parity to match a modest net inflow from foreign crown buying.
After the meeting at a government chateau east of Prague, Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus said that the government would aim to provide more funds to export promotion agencies such as the Czech Export Bank, and its sister export insurance agency.
He said he also told the business leaders that it was also necessary for businesses to lower their expectations of higher inflation because it had become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
"We can not automatically appease the expectation of, let's say, nine percent inflation, and make that the basis for all further expenditure -- price and wage items," Klaus said.
He said that this would be key to the government's position in collective bargaining.
"We have to radically break this (inflation expectation). This must be the basis of this year's debates on collective agreements."
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Investors smiled on the bourses of central and eastern Europe as brightly as the summer sun this week, though there were some indications these may by little more than fair-weather friends to the markets.
Exchanges in Prague, Warsaw, Budapest, Bratislava and Bucharest all gained ground, while Zagreb and Sofia traded mixed. Ljubljana was the one gray cloud, posting slight losses.
The Central European Share Index (CESI) which reflects the price movements of 50 selected Czech, Polish and Hungarian shares, firmed 66.11 points.
PRAGUE
Czech share prices were mostly steady on the Prague Stock Exchange throughout the week, with little movement expected soon as the holiday season slowly winds up.
The PX50 index edged up 3.6 points from Monday to close at 568.6 on Thursday.
Leading trading were SPT Telecom and Komercni Banka, though SPT's movements were largely characterised as "accounting procedures" that saw the issue gain as much as 102 crowns one session, only to lose the same amount the following day.
"The final price (of SPT) was not the real market price, but because average prices are not used for the close, it gives an artificial final number," said Jan Sykora of Wood and Company. SPT closed on Thursday at 3,340 crowns.
Dealers have long-complained that some market participants consistently manipulate prices on the bourse, a fact that to cloud foreign investor perceptions of the Czech market.
WARSAW
Polish shares on Thursday rose for the sixth consecutive session but analysts said stronger selling after price-fixing showed the market was losing steam and made it unclear if the growth trend would continue.
"It seems we now have a tug-of-war between buyers and sellers," said Krzysztof Rogalski, an analyst at Bank Staropolski SA brokerage.
But some analysts said a real growth trend had already begun, sparked by firms releasing better July earnings at the start of the week. The WIG index closed at 13,597.4 points, up 892.7 points or 7.0 percent from last Friday's close.
Analysts said recent systematic gains in higher turnovers by several large-cap stocks was a good sign that could help return the market toward this year's July 5, 14,282.2-point high next week.
BUDAPEST
Prices rose at both of this week's sessions as market participants returned after holidays on Monday and Tuesday.
The rest of the market strengthened as investors were cheered because the U.S. Federal Reserve had left interest rates steady.
"It's certainly due to the fact the U.S. investors put money into the east European emerging markets," Peter Haas of Postabank Securities said. "Optimism seems to have spread over investors after the danger of a rate hike was eliminated."
The BUX index closed on Thursday at 3,370.23, up 198.79 points over last Friday.
BRATISLAVA
The Bratislava Stock Exchange (BSE) saw a week of listless holiday trading, with the ongoing struggle for strategic control over the country's largest investment fund, VUB Kupon, dominating floor trading.
The 12-share SAX index posted several year-highs over the week, peaking at 226.34 points on Tuesday, and closing at 223.75 points on Thursday, slightly firmer from Monday's open.
"This week was a transparent example, showing how the index is often far off from real trends on the market," Dusan Sykora of ING Barings said. "The SAX has been reaching top levels, while only a few trades were concluded on the bourse on low volumes," he added.
SOFIA
No corporate issues traded for a third week in a row on the Bulgarian stock market as investors turnede their attention to treasuries and foreign currency.
Only the Sofia Stock Exchange (SSE) operated this week after the Bulgarian Stock Exchange (BSE) went into a summer recess on August 5. The BSE will resume trading on September 2.
The 13-share Reuter All Bulgaria Stock Exchange Index (RABSI) closed at 41.31 points, unchanged from last Thursday.
BUCHAREST
Romanian share prices posted gains this week on the back of healthy half-year earnings reports by several firms but trading, dominated by retail investors, was modest in volume.
Overall turnover fell by almost 30 million lei to 68.5 million on Thursday.
The unofficial VAB Index -- a value-weighted index of all stocks computed by Vanguard SA securities -- closed at 371 points, 8.20 points or 3.5 percent up on the week. Its base was 1,000 points when it was created last November.
ZAGREB
Croatian stocks were mixed though the summer lull seemed to be nearing an end as big buyers became more active, boosting prices and prompting broker predictions of a steady rise in the weeks to come.
Most active was Zagrebacka Banka which gained 130 kuna since last Tuesday, but other companies including foodprocessor Podravka also registered an increase of prices.
LJUBLJANA
In Ljubljana, share prices, eased 0.4 percent as the SBI index fell 4.31 points to 980.60.
Financial consultancy Finmedia was the leading decliner, falling 4.9 percent, while the biggest gainer were prefered shares of bank Dolenjska banka, firming 10.4 percent.
		    CLOSE     WEEK'S  CHANGE    1996 HIGH  1996 LOW
		    AUG 22	NET     PCT
 CESI	   1,495.58    +66.11   +4.62    1,483.76     959.24
 PRAGUE	   568.6	+3.6    +0.64	586.6	425.9
 WARSAW	13,597.4    +892.7    +7.0    14,282.2    7,725.2
 BUDAPEST     3,370.23   +198.79   +6.27    3,380.53   1,557.91
 BRATISLAVA     223.75     +0.51   +0.23	226.34     150.4
 SOFIA	     41.31	0.00   +0.00	 55.48	41.05
 LJUBLJANA	910.74     -4.31   -0.47    1,589.18     910.74
All-time high: CESI 1,483.76 (July 5/1996); SBI 1,598.02 (June 28/1994); WIG 20,760.3 (March 8/1994); BUX 3,380.53 (July 8/1996); PX50 1,002.4 (April 7/1994); RABSI 112.2 (April 27/1994); SAX 402.3 (Feb/1994).
Canada's six biggest banks are poised for a further round of buoyant profits when they begin reporting third-quarter earnings on Tuesday.
An improved interest rate picture, higher investment banking and dealing revenues and better loan quality are expected to drive profits in the third quarter ended July 31.
On average, earnings for the so-called Big Six are expected to be 15 percent to 20 percent higher than the third quarter of last year, analysts said.  
"I would expect more sectors of the banks to be more profitable than they were in the corresponding quarter of last year," Roy Palmer, an analyst with TD Securities, said in a telephone interview.
Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada's third and fourth largest banks respectively, kick off the earnings parade on Tuesday.
Canada's fifth-biggest bank, Toronto-Dominion Bank, and the smallest, National Bank of Canada, report on Thursday.  
The country's top two banks, Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, are scheduled to deliver their results on Thursday, September 5.
Despite a recent downturn in financial markets, analysts said securities earnings should be stronger than last year. Canada's brokerage industry is dominated by subsidiaries of the countries major banks.
The banks are also expected to benefit from lower loan losses as the industry continues to rebound from disastrous loans in commercial real estate, which collapsed in the late 1980s.  
Despite the correction in stocks earlier this summer, bank stocks have remained strong performers. Lower Canadian interest rates have helped push bank stock prices to all-time highs on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
"I think that if the combination of strong profitability couples up with lower interest rates, then it probably will set the backdrop for higher share prices," said Susan Cohen, an analyst with Deacon Capital Corp.
Analysts said they do not expect any of the banks to raise their dividends during the reporting period.  
But the string of record bank profits are expected to yield dividend hikes at the end of the fiscal year.
The big banks are on track for a third straight year if record annual profits. The group rang up a combined profit of C$5.17 billion in fiscal 1995 ended October 31, up from C$4.25 billion a year earlier.
As for 1997, Palmer said he expects a modest increase in profits.  
"Investment banking is a cyclical business. It may tail off a bit, but there is no sign of a recession yet, so I would think we could get modestly higher earnings next year," he said.
Bank of Montreal is expected to report a third-quarter profit of C$0.97 per share, up from C$0.93 per share a year ago, according to figures supplied by the International Brokers Estimates Service.
Scotiabank's earnings are seen climbing to C$1 per share in the third quarter, up from C$0.86 a share.  
Toronto-Dominion Bank is expected to post a C$0.72 per share profit, up slightly from C$0.71 per share in the third quarter of 1995.
National Bank's third quarter earnings are forecast to rise to C$0.41 per share from C$0.33 a share a year earlier.
CIBC's third quarter results are pegged at C$1.42 a share compared to last year's C$1.13 per share.
Royal Bank of Canada is seen improving to C$0.96 a share in the third quarter, up from C$0.88 per share a year earlier.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100
Leading Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo has been ordered to serve three years in a labour camp just hours after police detained him in an early morning raid on his Beijing home, his wife said on Wednesday.
Police had notified her early on Wednesday of the administrative sentence, which does not need a court trial, but gave her no reason for the punishment.
"I am very angry. How can they do this?," Liu Xia said in a telephone interview.
"I feel he hasn't done anything (illegal). Citizens have freedom of speech, to write articles and say things."
She said she had not decided whether to appeal.
The administrative punishment was passed against Liu after he was taken from his Beijing home early on Tuesday by a group of uniformed and plainclothes police who also confiscated books, papers and photographs.
"Re-education through labour is the personal power of the public security bureau, it doesn't have to go through judicial departments," Liu Xia said. "The public security can just do as they wish."
Liu Xiaobo might be sent to a labour camp near his hometown of Dalian in the northeast, she said.
Police officials declined to comment.
The administrative punishment of re-education through labour has been increasingly used against dissidents in recent months as a means of removing activists from circulation while avoiding the more complicated trial process, diplomats say.
Police gave no reason for the detention of Liu, a renowned literary critic who gained fame as a dissident in the 1989 student-led pro-democracy movement that was crushed by the military with heavy loss of life.
Liu has been active in recent months, sending several daring, open letters to the government.
On September 30, Liu and veteran pro-democracy activist Wang Xizhe issued a statement urging China's communist authorities to honour a promise in 1945 to give people freedom of the press and speech and to form political parties and stage demonstrations.
In a bold move, the two demanded Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin be indicted, impeached and step down for violating the constitution for saying the People's Liberation Army was under the "absolute leadership" of the party instead of the state.
Wang could not be reached in southern Guangzhou and a human rights group said he did not return home on Tuesday.
Liu was last detained by police in 1995 after orchestrating several petitions to parliament by groups of dissidents and intellectuals in the early months of the year.
He was held for more than seven months without formal charges until being released last January.
His sentence comes shortly after Chinese sources said dissident and former student leader Wang Dan faced a second jail term after prosecutors charged him recently with subversion.
Wang, 26, faces up to seven years in jail on charges of counter-revolutionary incitement -- or subversion.
Wang, who is believed to have worked with Liu on several petitions, was detained in May 1995 in the run-up to the sixth anniversary of the June 1989 military crackdown.
A former student of Beijing University, Wang served four years in jail for counter-revolutionary activities for his role as a leader of the 1989 demonstrations that centred on Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
He had been expected to face charges since the court that sentenced veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng last December to 14 years for plotting to overthrow the government also implicated Wang in its verdict.
China is not expected to be in the international market for sugar before mid-1997 as stocks are high and domestic prices are recovering in the lead up to the harvest, traders and Western industry sources said on Wednesday.
But a lack of cash among state-run sugar processors could affect farmers' willingness to keep growing sugar cane and pressure the industry in the long-term, they said.
China had up to two million tonnes of processed sugar in reserve after massive imports in 1995 that have yet to be fully absorbed, a Hong Kong trader said.  
"No one knows the actual figure because it's a state secret," he said of China's sugar reserves.
"I would think there is something between one and two million tonnes, because they imported 3.3 million tonnes in 1995 and it takes a long time to use up," he said.
China's sugar demand had not increased by very much over the eight million tonnes of recent years, traders said.
"China's economy in 1996 has not been that good, so consumption has not really gone up," another Asian trader said.
"Sugar is not an essential item in China and people can go without it when money is tight," he said.  
The bulk of the Chinese market is industrial, traders said.
Central authorities are expected to maintain tight control over the sugar industry, encouraged by the success of an ongoing crackdown on smuggling, traders said.
Millions of tonnes of sugar were smuggled into China in 1994 and 1995 on false or altered import licences, flooding the market and pushing ex-factory prices below break-even point.
The crackdown, which was long and severe, brought some control back to the sugar industry, traders said, and prices are finally starting to move up.
No licences had been issued this year, traders said.  
A tonne of processed sugar in major production areas in the southwest of the country is now fetching 4,100 to 4,200 yuan (US$494-$506), up from 3,800 yuan (US$458) a tonne a few months ago, traders and industry executives said.
The head of a Western company with joint venture interests in Guangxi province said this was "putting a smile on our faces for the first time in months".
Government-set cane purchasing prices in Guangxi, China's major sugar grower, have not been raised from last season's 250 to 280 yuan ($30-33) a tonne, he said.  
But many state-run sugar processors lacked cash to pay farmers for the cane they grew last season, and had either been late in paying or had handed over IOUs instead, he said.
China News Service, a semi-official agency in Hong Kong, reported in August the Agricultural Bank of China's Guangxi branch had been ordered to lend 400 million yuan ($48 million) to the province's sugar industry to buy 100,000 tonnes of sugar.
Many farmers had already planted cane for the current season when the cash shortages began to bite, but they might be discouraged from planting again if the same happens this year, the Western industry source said.  
China's sugar harvest begins in mid-November and according to the official Xinhua News Agency could climb two million tonnes over 1995's 5.65 million tonnes.
Customs figures released in late September show China's sugar exports in the first eight months of 1996 were up 310.1 percent on the same year-ago period to 462,459 tonnes.
Imports fell 54.9 percent in that time to 830,000 tonnes, the figures show.
China permits raw sugar imports for the purpose of tolling, or processing and re-exporting.
(US$1 = 8.3 yuan)  
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
China's recent string of satellite launch failures may help Russia's commercial space drive, a senior Russian space official said on Wednesday.
Russia should benefit from its strong space technology, despite lagging behind China in turning technical expertise into commercial success, said Vladimir Oumnikov of the Russian Space Agency.
"We have good prospects," Oumnikov told Reuters at an international conference on astronautics in Beijing.
Asked if Chinese setbacks had helped the Russian programme, he said: "We think so."
Although China once had a reputation for providing cheap and reliable launch services, it has been stung by a series of launch failures.
China's commercial space drive suffered a setback in August when a communications satellite failed to reach its orbit after launch aboard a Long March 3 rocket.
Last February, an Intelsat satellite was destroyed in a spectacular explosion as a Long March 3B rocket veered wildly seconds after launch from China's Xichang space centre in the western province of Sichuan.
At least six people were killed and 57 injured in the incident, which also destroyed 80 homes near the launch site.
In January 1995, a Long March rocket exploded, destroying the Apstar 2 satellite it was carrying.
Last month, a Russian Proton rocket booster successfully launched a U.S.-built satellite for the international telecommunications organisation Inmarsat and a Proton-K booster rocket launched a satellite for domestic telephone and television use.
"We think we have a good system for ensuring reliability," said Oumnikov, who is deputy director for economic issues in the Russian Space Agency's division of space projects.
Failures were common in the space industry and China was not the only supplier of launch services to have such problems, the Russian official said.
He added that Russia needed to catch up with China, which has moved ahead with economic reforms that have reduced the reliance on central planning and expanded the role of the marketplace.
"We do not have enough experience in commercialisation," he said. "China had a head start in this area."
Russia's parliament was expected to discuss by the end of this year a law that would give a legal basis to the commercial space business, he said.
That would remove some of the legal obstacles to Russia's efforts to make a profit from space technology, he added.
China said on Wednesday Japan was heading for confrontation with an election platform reiterating Tokyo's claim to disputed islands in the East China Sea but said it was not too late for Japan to stop its reckless gamble.
"Japan is turning a deaf ear to warnings and protests from China...and has embarked on the road to confrontation," the official China Daily said, commenting on the election platform of Japan's biggest political party, the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP).
"It is still not too late for Japan to stop this reckless gamble," the newspaper said in a commentary. "It is high time for Japan to take measures to stop the game for the sake of the world and its own future."
The LDP announced last week an election platform that reiterates Tokyo's claim to the East China Sea islands, which Tokyo calls the Senkakus and which Beijing and Taipei call the Diaoyus.
"Japan has not learnt the lesson of its militarist expansion and...it is going into another dangerous game," the newspaper said.
On Monday, about 300 Taiwanese and Hong Kong protesters aboard a 50-boat flotilla pierced a Japanese maritime cordon around the islands and briefly raised the flags of Beijing and Taipei on the rocky outcrops in a challenge to Tokyo's claim of sovereignty.
Japan has sought to calm passions in the dispute and asked China and Japan to prevent a recurrence of Monday's landings. Tokyo has said it would not recognise a lighthouse built on one of the islands by Japanese rightwingers this year.
Japanese rightwingers sailed to the islands in July and repaired the lighthouse, rekindling the dispute.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang on Tuesday accused Japan of taking an irresponsibile approach by encouraging landings on the islands by the rightwing groups.
Shen warned that the will of the Chinese people "cannot be bullied" and that sovereignty ranked above everything else.
The row was aggravated last week when a Hong Kong activist drowned after diving into stormy seas near the islands as part of a protest against Tokyo's sovereignty claim.
Tokyo's claim dates back to 1895, when it defeated imperial China and seized the uninhabited islands. Japan says the issue is not open for discussion.
China has claimed sovereignty over the islands for centuries.
Taiwan has no diplomatic ties with Japan, which only recognises Beijing's Communist government.
The China Daily commentary also slammed the LDP's election platform for containing an endorsement of visits by cabinet ministers to a Tokyo shrine to Japan's war dead.
"Japanese politicians have waged a war to reverse the verdict on Japan's war shame concluded by the world half a century ago," the commentary said.
Japanese prime minister and LDP leader Ryutaro Hashimoto in July broke a decade-long taboo on prime ministerial visits to Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, saying it was time for Japan to stop apologising for honouring its fallen soldiers.
"Such dishonest activities, which reinvigorate militarism, have naturally caused indignation in the war-victimised countries," the newspaper commentary said in reference to visits to the shrine by Japanese leaders.
Last week, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang expressed strong indignation over the LDP's election platform.
For 36 years Tibet's biggest leather factory gushed pollution into one of the world's cleanest rivers and haemorrhaged losses.
But help was at hand when Tibet's scenic beauty and devout Buddhist people enchanted visiting German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in 1988.
German aid has since poured in, along with German technicians, transforming the plant into a rare model of environmental awareness on the roof of the world. It has also made its first net profit.
Manager Li Jishan glowed with pride as he described the modernisation wrought at his plant over the last few years.
"When I first came here in 1961 things were really backward. We lived in tents. Can you imagine?" he said in an interview with Reuters.
The leather factory was moved to Lhasa in 1959 from Golmud in neighbouring Qinghai province to provide footleather for thousands of soldiers sent to garrison Tibet after an abortive uprising by Tibetans seeking independence in 1958.
As a state-owned firm that processes yak skins into shoes and handbags it had little incentive to turn a profit. That is slowly changing.
Last year, the China-Germany Joint Venture Lhasa Leather Factory of Tibet reported a profit of 200,000 yuan ($24,000) -- a modest sum but the first in its history.
"We have a good future, our efficiency is good...and with German assistance we are placing great emphasis on environmental protection," said Li, adding that he expected another profit this year.
"The German side is very strict, especially on environmental protection," he noted. "But we get along with them very well."
One problem identified by the German side is one common to most of China's state-owned firms -- the huge surplus labour that is the legacy of jobs-for-life socialism.
"We have had arguments with the German experts who want to fire someone, for example," said Li. "But they have come to understand our point of view and our system."
However, German officials still warn that keeping on a couple of hundred extra staff is bound to affect profits.
German officials said the plant had been an environmental disaster when they arrived, with its tannery spouting stinking waste into the nearby rushing Tolungchu river.
"It was in really bad shape with terrible environmental problems," said Niels von Keyserlingk, director of the office of the German Development Corporation in Beijing that oversees aid to the plant.
"Before, the water was untreated and flowed into the river causing many problems," he said. "But things have been very nicely done. There is no pollution."
All chemicals are recycled now and a German-manufactured system cleans the water, separating waste that is dried for use by local farmers as fertiliser.
"The water that flows into the river is absolutely clean," said von Keyserlingk, who visited the plant last May.
A cement factory on the opposite bank belching dust into the clear mountain area could pose a new environmental hazard.
Germany has given 15 million deutschemarks ($9.8 million) in aid to the plant, which has been allowed to register as a joint venture and thus qualifies for the generous tax breaks and holidays that Tibet offers to foreign investors.
German money has helped to buy the latest in leather processing machinery as well as sewing machines, waste elimination plants and even new solar energy panels that are heating water for the factory.
Sales have soared. The factory held an eight percent share of the Tibet shoe market for years, but in 1994 that jumped to 20 percent and nearly doubled again in 1995 to a 36 percent market share.
"Our products are really popular because they are all leather, and people want that kind of quality," Li said.
The factory is trying to boost sales to the rest of China as well as overseas exports, particularly to neighbouring Nepal.
But it faces awesome transport handicaps in shipping goods from a city that has no rail links and must send merchandise more than 1,000 km (600 miles) over some of China's most difficult roads to the nearest railway station.
"We still need to raise quality and produce more different styles of shoes to compete in the market," said Li, who has clearly picked up some tips from his German market-savvy experts.
"Either you learn to swim in the market or you drown."
China is not expected to be in the international market for sugar before mid-1997 as stocks are high and domestic prices are recovering in the lead up to the harvest, traders and Western industry sources said on Wednesday.
But a lack of cash among state-run sugar processors could affect farmers' willingness to keep growing sugar cane and pressure the industry in the long-term, they said.
China had up to two million tonnes of processed sugar in reserve after massive imports in 1995 that have yet to be fully absorbed, a Hong Kong trader said.
"No one knows the actual figure because it's a state secret," he said of China's sugar reserves.
"I would think there is something between one and two million tonnes, because they imported 3.3 million tonnes in 1995 and it takes a long time to use up," he said.
China's sugar demand had not increased by very much over the eight million tonnes of recent years, traders said.
"China's economy in 1996 has not been that good, so consumption has not really gone up," another Asian trader said.
"Sugar is not an essential item in China and people can go without it when money is tight," he said.
The bulk of the Chinese market is industrial, traders said.
Central authorities are expected to maintain tight control over the sugar industry, encouraged by the success of an ongoing crackdown on smuggling, traders said.
Millions of tonnes of sugar were smuggled into China in 1994 and 1995 on false or altered import licences, flooding the market and pushing ex-factory prices below break-even point.
The crackdown, which was long and severe, brought some control back to the sugar industry, traders said, and prices are finally starting to move up.
No licences had been issued this year, traders said.
A tonne of processed sugar in major production areas in the southwest of the country is now fetching 4,100 to 4,200 yuan (US$494-$506), up from 3,800 yuan (US$458) a tonne a few months ago, traders and industry executives said.
The head of a Western company with joint venture interests in Guangxi province said this was "putting a smile on our faces for the first time in months".
Government-set cane purchasing prices in Guangxi, China's major sugar grower, have not been raised from last season's 250 to 280 yuan ($30-33) a tonne, he said.
But many state-run sugar processors lacked cash to pay farmers for the cane they grew last season, and had either been late in paying or had handed over IOUs instead, he said.
China News Service, a semi-official agency in Hong Kong, reported in August the Agricultural Bank of China's Guangxi branch had been ordered to lend 400 million yuan ($48 million) to the province's sugar industry to buy 100,000 tonnes of sugar.
Many farmers had already planted cane for the current season when the cash shortages began to bite, but they might be discouraged from planting again if the same happens this year, the Western industry source said.
China's sugar harvest begins in mid-November and according to the official Xinhua News Agency could climb two million tonnes over 1995's 5.65 million tonnes.
Customs figures released in late September show China's sugar exports in the first eight months of 1996 were up 310.1 percent on the same year-ago period to 462,459 tonnes.
Imports fell 54.9 percent in that time to 830,000 tonnes, the figures show.
China permits raw sugar imports for the purpose of tolling, or processing and re-exporting.
(US$1 = 8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Republic Industries Inc., the aggressive Florida company run by businessman Wayne Huizenga, on Friday defended its plans to buy security firm ADT Ltd. after a New York newspaper reported that the transaction would be called off.
"The deal has not been killed. It is still moving forward," spokesman Ronald Castell said.
Huizenga, founder of Blockbuster Entertainment, owns the Florida Marlins baseball, Dolphins football and Panthers hockey professional sports teams. Republic has three major areas of business: electronic security, solid waste and used cars.
Originally valued at $5 billion when the stock transaction was announced in July, the deal has lost about 20 percent of its value due to a steep decline in Republic's share price. At the time the deal was first announced, Republic shares were trading at about $29.
Citing unnamed industry sources, the New York Post reported that ADT was expected to call off the deal because of the drop in value.
Shares of Republic closed up 62.5 cents at $25.125 on Nasdaq after trading as high as $26.125 as takeover traders rushed to cover short positions. ADT stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange closed up 50 cents at $19.125.
Boca Raton, Florida-based ADT declined to comment on the report, but Wall Street analysts said both companies were dismissing the article.
"What ADT has told me is that nothing has changed," said Andrew Jeffrey of Robertson Stephens &amp; Co., referring to the report that the deal was dead.
Some Wall Street traders have speculated that Republic may be forced to sweeten the terms of the deal to make up for the lost value in its stock price.
Republic's Castell declined to discuss details of the deal's value.
The transaction also has been clouded by concerns that Western Resources Inc., which owns 23.1 percent of ADT, may oppose the acquisition. Western has said it was not consulted about the merger, but has not yet determined if it will seek to block the deal.
The ADT acquisition represents a huge step for Republic, which has acquired 19 security companies since it entered the industry 10 months ago.
The engines have started in the race to succeed Alex Trotman for the top office at Ford Motor Co.
The company on Thursday promoted two longtime Ford executives to positions that will allow them to prove if they are worthy of occupying one or more of the top spots at Detroit's No. 2 automaker.  
Edward Hagenlocker, 56, was promoted to vice chairman from executive vice president, and put in charge of a new auto components organization with 75,000 employees and revenues of $14 billion.
Jacques Nasser, 48, previously group vice president in charge of product development, was named to Hagenlocker's old job of heading up Ford Automotive Operations (FAO), the company's core car and truck business.  
Speculation has swirled for months about how Ford's board of directors plans to handle the succession of Trotman, who currently holds the titles of chairman, chief executive officer and president. Trotman reaches the mandatory retirement age of 65 in July 1998, but the board can ask him to stay on.
Complicating matters is the prospect of a Ford family member returning to a top role for the first time since 1980. Recent reports have said William Clay Ford Jr., 39, a great- grandson of company founder Henry Ford, could be named a non- executive chairman, or chairman, when Trotman leaves.  
Eugene Jennings, a retired professor of management at Michigan State University, said Hagenlocker's assignment at the head of the new parts organization could turn into a high-profile spot, and it should not be read as a demotion.
"It's the one thing that Hagenlocker needs under his belt to give him the experience he needs to run the company," said Jennings, a long-time observer of the Big Three U.S. automakers.  
Nasser has worked at Ford nearly as long as Hagenlocker. Born in Lebanon and raised in Australia, Nasser joined the company in 1968 as a financial analyst. He rose through several international assignments, earning a reputation as a "no- nonsense petrol head."
While Hagenlocker is stiff in front of the media, Nasser moves easily among reporters, entertaining them with colorful stories about cricket and his globe-trotting life abroad.  
Wesley Brown of industry consultant CSM Forecasting in Farmington Hills, Mich., said Nasser's new role also offers him a chance to demonstrate his abilities at running the company.
"It clearly puts Nasser in a position to take over from Trotman when he retires," said Brown.
For his part, Trotman was circumspect about the succession question at a news briefing Thursday, saying it was the board's decision. Asked if the board is actively working on the issue, Trotman responded: "Absolutely, in depth and frequently -- and has been for the last 20 or 30 years."
Financial services and property group Liberty International vowed on Thursday to change the way the British pensions market works with the launch of a new user-friendly subsidiary.
"The market is poised for change, requiring a fresh approach, and our company will provide this by demystifying pensions for everybody - both individuals and the companies for which they work," Liberty chairman Donald Gordon said.
Liberty has set up its own pensions company, Liberty International Pensions, and will target retail pensions and money purchase pension schemes -- pensions where the benefit is linked to the amount an individual has put in.
Liberty, 69 percent owned by South Africa's Liberty Life, has enrolled the giant British Telecom Pension Scheme, which will pay five million pounds ($7.8 million) for 10 percent of the equity of Liberty International Pensions.
Liberty's Gordon said the move into the British pensions market was an extension of a worldwide shift from defined benefit -- where an individual's pension is related to his final salary -- to defined contribution principles.
This would have "a most profound influence on business practice and retirement savings in the future". In Britain there is also "an urgent and growing need for quality privatised retirement savings which require a radical change in approach and funding techniques", Gordon added.
A rapidly ageing population and low birth rate were combining to increase this need, Gordon said.
Liberty also announced it had teamed up with fund management group Hermes to form Hermes Liberty International Pensions. This will offer specialised investment services to the British pensions industry, with Hermes as fund manager.
BT Pension Scheme is giving the Hermes Liberty joint venture "critical mass from the outset" with a 1.5 billion pound transfer of assets to the new funds, Gordon said.
He said Hermes' expertise in investment management and track record would help the group to provide quality and competitively priced pension services. Hermes called the joint pensions venture a meeting of minds.
"Liberty has the ability and techniques of selling pensions, it also has the systems...and the administration. We on the other hand are good at our particular core areas of investment management...we think that's a very good marriage," Alastair Ross Goobey, chief executive of Hermes, said.
"It really was a meeting of minds on this. Whether it develops further from this we shall see. I think one step at a time is quite enough for us."
He said the venture would probably not be up and running until the first quarter of next year as regulatory approval first had to be obtained for the new group.
As well as selling pensions directly by telephone, Liberty also plans to sell personal pensions at its regional shopping centres, which are held through a majority-owned subsidiary Capital Shopping Centres. These have more than 150 million customer visits a year, Liberty said. ($1=.6395 Pound)
Tottenham Hotspur chairman Alan Sugar said on Thursday that English soccer clubs could face financial ruin if they follow the example of big spenders such as Newcastle United.
Sugar was speaking after Premier League club Tottenham posted a record pre-exceptional profit of 10.2 million pounds ($16 million) for the 14 months to July 31. The club increased its total dividend to 5p from 3p.
English soccer is booming as television revenue helps to fund an influx of top foreign talents and the sector is seen as increasingly attractive for investors.
English champions Manchester United, listed along with Tottenham on the London Stock Exchange, this week announced an annual profit of 15 million pounds.
But Sugar warned that the Bosman Ruling under which players effectively become free agents at the end of their of their contracts was "a devastating blow to the football industry".
Sugar said he could not see the sense in deals such as privately-owned Newcastle's recent signing of England captain Alan Shearer from Blackburn Rovers for 15 million pounds.
"Even if you win everything in sight there is no way to make it pay," he said, noting that Newcastle would not be able to recoup any of their outlay on Shearer once his contract was up.
Tottenham, who reported 14-month figures because of a change in their financial year, took an exceptional charge of 7.3 million pounds to reflect a drop in the value of their squad.
The value fell after Belgian Jean-Marc Bosman won a landmark case at the European Court of Justice which ended the transfer fee system for players who were out of contract.
Sugar, who has a 40 percent stake in Tottenham, acknowledged that profit figures were meaningless to fans clamouring for new signings following the injury-hit team's indifferent start to the season.
He said funds were available to team manager Gerry Francis to strenghten the squad but declined to say how much.
"I would hope in the next two to three weeks that we will see some signings at the club," he added, saying that the club's aim was to sign promising young players on long-term contracts.
The head of consumer electronics group Amstrad, Sugar saved Tottenham from the verge of bankruptcy five years ago when he and former England coach Terry Venables took over the club.
But the two, both working-class London boys made good, fell out spectacularly and have become locked in a series of legal battles since Sugar forced Venables to leave the club in 1993. ($1=.6395 Pound)
SkyePharma Plc, one of Britain's most unusual and fastest-growing drugs companies, said on Thursday 1998 would be "the magic year" for proving to investors that its unique growth strategy was paying off.
SkyePharma chairman and chief executive officer Ian Gowrie-Smith, the Australian entrepreneur behind the creation of Medeva Plc, promised that by then there would be "a lot of products filed" for approval, plus news on product launches and collaborations with drug giants.  
"1998 is the magic year. I can't wait for that, because it seems like a lifetime away," he said in a telephone interview.
Earlier SkyePharma, which has the distinction of being formed out of former tent hire company Black &amp; Edgington, announced a narrowing of pretax losses in the six months to July to 6.0 million stg from 10.0 million a year before.
The company is being built out of two key acquisitions, Krypton Ltd, which holds a portfolio of generic drugs to be launched in the U.S. as patents expire, and Jago Holdings AG of Switzerland, which specialises in controlled-release drug delivery.  
The U.S. generic drug market is expected to expand rapidly in the next few years, with new versions of tried and tested drugs much easier and cheaper to get on the market than entirely new products.
Gowrie-Smith said SkyePharma, which is 50 percent owned by its directors, has never been "an investment for short-term punters." The group's share price reached an all-time high of 96 pence in May and fell to a low for the year of 69 pence in July. It was trading at 73 1/2 pence, up 1 1/2, late afternoon.  
"There is a very mature base of investors," he said, adding he hoped to give them a near-term "steer" about the company with a flow of news about the progress of products. SkyePharma said it had two drugs in Phase III trials, with two more about to go in "in the near future." Clinical trials on a non-CFC asthma inhaler developed by Jago are due to start next year.
Gowrie-Smith said these developments were a "signpost", adding that current sales of drugs totalled $2.5 billion annually. The company is reformulating its drugs with Jago's Geomatrix technology which it believes makes them more effective and more easily absorbed by the body.  
The U.S. will dominate expansion plans over the next 18 months, with the workforce of SkyePharma's Brightstone marketing subsidiary gradually rising to 60 from 15. Brightstone is to target the U.S.'s rapidly-expanding managed healthcare sector.
SkyePharma had net cash of 24.3 million stg at the end of July, and Gowrie-Smith said it had no plans to return to the market for cash, unless it saw the opportunity of adding new technology to its existing portfolio.
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Ivory Coast might cut cocoa freight slightly for 1996/97 but a decision on rates is not likely to hold up shipments as it did last October, exporters and shipping lines said.
Shipments should start when export licences and finances are in place, they added.
"We have already written last year's (1995/96) rates into our costs for next year's (1996/97) accounts. Any change will be small," one major shipping line manager told Reuters.
"The government might choose to cut a bit as (shipping) costs have gone down since liberalisation," said a large fleet manager. He added, "You never can tell. I don't think they will cut, but certainly not much more than one and a half percent."
But there was uncertainty over how to fill in official forms, due to be in by October 15, requesting data on import and export cargo this year and rates to be applied in 1996/97.
"We have to get this done quickly and there still has not been a meeting (of trade body FEDERMAR) to decide how to fill in the forms and what to argue with the Caistab," said one shipping line marketing manager.
"We don't know if they want separate freight rates or the conference guide rate," he said. Shipping managers were trying to arrange a meeting, he added.
Cocoa shipments in 1995 were blocked from early October to mid-November when shipping lines rejected a 25 percent cut in cocoa and coffee freight rates to Europe set by Ivory Coast's Caistab marketing board. A rate of seven percent was eventually agreed.
Fob rates of 415,836 CFA per tonne for cocoa and 856,732 CFA for coffee were set for 1995/96.
"We have heard from the Caistab that rates should not change between this season and last season. But it is still open, there may be a change of one and a half percent in either direction," said another shipping manager.
The exporters' forum GEPEX foresees at most a small rate change. "I think after last year's problems it will be difficult to make much of a change to the rates," said one exporter.
A transport ministry official said 1996/97 rates would be stable. "It will be difficult to rock the boat again after last year. Liberalisation does not mean rates should be forced down artificially." The decision rested with the Caistab, he added.
The seven percent cut in the 1995/96 rate to northern Europe and an unchanged price for shipments to Mediterranean, British and French ports was agreed in November last year.
Freight rates were cut by 12 percent in 1992/93 but were left unchanged in 1993/94 and 1994/95.
Another government transport official said he was sceptical about the benefits of shipping liberalisation, which is part of wider donor-sponsored reforms aimed at increasing commodity market efficiency and transparency.
"All prices are set behind close doors. The Caisse pays to exporters the price set in the bareme but exporters are pocketing money by getting lower freight rates and rebates from shipping lines," he said.
An announcement of other 1996/97 marketing rates, including farmgate prices is expected this week, but some industry sources think the season might not get going until October 21 or 23.
Cocoa farmer prices are broadly expected to rise only in line with inflation, if at all, from 320 per kilo of bagged cocoa in 1995/96.
Coffee producer prices are expected to fall to 500-600 CFA per kilo, from 700 CFA in 1995/96, in line with lower world prices.
Export taxes are expected to remain stable for cocoa at 160 CFA per tonne.
"The coffee tax (150 CFA) is likely to be slashed," said an international banker, pointing to earlier World Bank advice to that effect.
- Abidjan newsroom +225 219090
Outboard Marine Corp chief executive Harry Bowman talked Thursday with the principals of Greenway Partners -- Alfred Kingsley and Gary Duberstein -- who have bought an 8.5-percent stake for nearly $30 million in the manufacturer of boats and boat engines.
"It was really just a get-acquainted call," said Stan Main, spokesman for Outboard Marine, or OMC.
If Waukegan, Ill.-based OMC is anything like some other companies that Greenway has invested in, Bowman may soon get to know Kingsley and Duberstein very well indeed.  
Former associates of Carl Icahn, the two New York financiers specialize in buying shares in companies that are struggling, then pressuring managements for changes.
OMC does not know Greenway's intentions, Main said. He added, "All you can look at is their track record."
Known as a highly active shareholder, Greenway has sought a three-way break-up of Unisys Corp, the spin-off by Woolworth Corp of its profitable Footlocker division, and helped cause the 1994 sale of U.S. Shoe Corp.
"We're not bashful," Kingsley said in an interview, confirming that he has had one chat with OMC.  
The topic of discussion on the call was "the company and its operations," Kingsley said. He added, "We might have more conversations with them."
Of particular interest, Kingsley said, is OMC's new FICHT fuel injection technology, which the company said can reduce hydrocarbon emissions of two-stroke engines by 70-80 percent.
"It's true that for emissions standards, they have to do something. But I think that they've got an interesting engine here with other applications, in addition to the outboard motor area," Kingsley said.  
Asked if Greenway was happy with OMC's financial performance, Kingsley said, "The company's probably not satisfied with their performance."
OMC has made that quite clear in recent quarters and is taking steps to fix the situation, Main said. "There is a plan being developed," he said.
Investors have been waiting for improvements at OMC, but are beginning to lose patience, said Lehman Brothers analyst Harriet Baldwin. "It's likely Greenway's effect will be to bring more focus on management," she said.  
OMC makes Evinrude and Johnson outboard motors, as well as Chris-Craft and Four Winns boats. The company posted a loss in its third-quarter ended June 30 of $0.18 per share, compared to a profit of $1.39 per share last year. Quarterly revenues were $291 million, down from $329.6 million a year before.
Shares in the company were up 1-5/8 to 17-3/8 Friday after the Greenway stake was announced in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A year ago, OMC shares traded in the low 20s.
Main said OMC is pursuing other markets for the FICHT system. "We are talking with people who make personal watercraft engines or motorcycle engines," he said.
In addition, he said OMC is taking cost-cutting steps. "We are looking very hard at our corporate overhead costs and expect some dramatic cost savings there," he said.
For example, OMC may consolidate administrative functions for its boat companies from six locations to one in Nashville, Tenn., Main said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk  312-408-8787
The Silicon Valley entrepreneur who founded Atari Corp. and created Chuck E. Cheese restaurants wants to put high-tech jukeboxes and video games linked to the Internet in bars, hotels and other public places -- and eventually make billions of dollars.
"Do you think 'Bubba' can surf the Net? I do," Nolan Bushnell told reporters at a news briefing Thursday in a wood-paneled room of his Woodside, Calif., mansion about 30 miles south of San Francisco.
Reporters got a look at three devices that will enable people to play video games with opponents in another location, order music as well as hear it and access the Internet with the drop of a coin or the swipe of a credit card.
Aristo International Corp. plans to roll the machines out worldwide early next month.
Bushnell, who is director of strategic planning for Aristo and has a minority stake in the New York-based company, said he and Aristo have invested more than $10 million to develop the machines, dubbed TeamNet, MusicNet Plus and TouchNet.
The company has gathered about 75 of the approximately 100 distributors of coin-operated games this week to unveil the machines and generate orders. Aristo wants to put the devices in sports bars, hotels, restaurants, airports and other public locations.
The TeamNet machine, which is the size of a small billiard table, allows two teams of up to eight players each to compete against each other or against teams elsewhere through an Internet connection.
Aristo said it is already seeking corporate sponsors for its tournament games.
Another product, TouchNet, allows people to use a compact, coin-operated countertop touch-screen computer to play games and send messages via the Net.
The U.S. market for coin-operated games alone has reached $6.8 billion a year, and studies for Aristo indicate this could grow to $20 billion, said Bushnell.
Bushnell, 53, is no stranger to video games. He founded the Atari video game company in 1972 and sold it in 1976. A year later, he opened the first of a chain of Chuck E. Cheese restaurants, which combine pizza with video games.
The MusicNet Plus product plays high-quality digital music and enables customers to buy recordings and merchandise from bands as well as tickets to events.
Aristo Chief Executive Mouli Cohen declined to say how much the machines would cost, but said hotel and club proprieters should expect a price that is competitive with current coin-operated vending machines, which generally sell for a few thousand dollars.
Company officials also declined to make sales projections.
The products are based on computers using high-speed Intel Corp. Pentium processors and use Microsoft Corp.'s Windows NT operating system.
The machines are being manufactured by vending machine maker Streak Technology Inc. and other California manufacturers. Cohen said Aristo was also in talks with Taiwanese computer maker Acer on manufacturing.
Cohen said in an interview at Bushnell's estate that Aristo has a development lead of at least six to eight months over would-be rivals.
He said the company has invested $15 million in cash and stock worth $10 million to build the company. The stock was unchanged at $7.50 Friday afternoon on Nasdaq.
With 13.5 million shares outstanding, Aristo is gearing up for a secondary offering of up to 2 million shares around October.
Cohen and Bushnell declined to discuss individual shareholder stakes, adding that Aristo has been working with investment bankers Allen &amp; Co. to evaluate potential strategic partners and investors.
Russia's Gazprom natural gas monopoly plans to double exports to Europe by 2010, mostly via its ambitious $40 billion Yamal pipeline project, but energy analysts said the timing could be wrong.
"There's a market problem (with oversupply in Europe), and the cost of developing the Yamal field will be too high," said a senior European energy specialist familiar with the project.
"Europe is at saturation level for the next 10 years or so, so Gazprom is 5-10 years too early."
The Yamal-Europe project envisions building a gas pipeline network across 4,107 km (2,550 miles) from Russia's vast Arctic Yamal peninsula reserves to Germany via Belarus and Poland.
Gazprom wants to take advantage of rising European demand.
To help raise capital for Yamal, RAO Gazprom is offering American Depositary Shares as part of a plan to sell a total nine percent stake abroad.
"Europe can hardly wait for this project," said Alexander Litvinov, Gazprom's chief public relations specialist.
A company statement said: "The company faces significant requirements for capital expenditures."
The Yamal system, to be built in stages and linking with existing pipelines in some places, would have an initial capacity of 83 billion cubic metres (bcm) per year, including around 52 bcm to Western Europe.
Gazprom said the Yamal-Europe pipeline would boost Russia's export capacity to 124 billion bcm by 1997 and 154 bcm by 1999. Sales outside the former Soviet Union were 117.4 bcm in 1995.
The company wants annual exports to rise by 50 bcm by 2010.
Gazprom has won big Western credits to build European parts of the Yamal link into Poland's grid and Belarus, but it has not won financing for the main part of the system or to boost output at Yamal itself, which it hopes to begin doing by 2000.
Pierre Bauquis, special adviser to the president of French company Total SA, told an energy conference in the Kazakh capital Almaty last week that Russia had huge gas reserves but big financial constraints.
"Yamal is not needed before 2010," he said.
He said netbacks (a key indicator of profitability) on Yamal gas to Germany today were negative, "so Yamal is not obvious from an economic standpoint."
Gazprom sees Yamal as the goose that will lay the golden egg, since the area has recoverable reserves of 10,400 bcm, or 20 percent of Russia's total proven reserves.
But Yamal gas, some under permafrost, is in a remote area and is quite expensive to recover.
Some analysts say it may be cheaper to tap and transport Algerian and Norwegian gas to European markets than to extract Yamal gas in the volumes and time-frame Gazprom plans.
Russian gas already accounts for 60 percent of Europe's total gas imports. Russia has more than one-third of world gas reserves and 26 percent of output, and is the world's single largest producer, with output of 556 bcm last year.
Gazprom accounts for 94 percent of Russian gas output and transports nearly all of it. The firm wants output to rise to 820 bcm a year by 2010.
Russia exports only 20 percent of its output, and declining industrial consumption at home has left Russia with an oversupply. Europe is also flush with supplies, though demand is set to rise.
"The fact that Gazprom does not have its own financing for Yamal and that it has not been able to find domestic or foreign financing (for the main part of the project) speaks quite negatively about its economics," said the European source.
Satellite television company DirecTV will on Monday slash the price of its entry-level receiver dish to $199 to grab customers before digital cable TV competitors get going, sources close to the company said.
"The new entry level price will be about $199," a source said, declining to be identified. DirecTV declined to comment.
DirecTV, part of Hughes Electronics Corp, is responding to recent similar price cuts by rival Echostar Communications Corp. DirecTV's cheapest dish currently costs $499, although models costing up to $900 are available.  
The price cuts are linked to taking a package of basic programming service which costs around $360 a year.
AT&amp;T Corp, which has a 2.5 percent stake in DirecTV and markets the service directly, will not be changing the price of its own package which already offers the dish for $199 to consumers who are in its True Rewards program.
Consumers in that AT&amp;T program have to use loyalty points earned towards the cost of the service.
The dishes are made by Thomson Consumer Electronic Corp's RCA. Thomson is owned by France's Thomson Corp.  
However, another source said AT&amp;T would begin to apply discounts to the cost of programming, reducing it to $155 a year from the current $360 for True Rewards members.
AT&amp;T declined to comment.
DirecTV is the largest U.S. direct satellite service, with 1.7 million subscribers, and growing at 20-30 percent a year.
PrimeStar is the second largest with 1.35 million. It is owned by a group led by cable TV firm Tele-Communications Inc . EchoStar is third with 105,000.
The turf war is already on between telephone companies, cable TV firms and satellite operators for a digital entertainment market worth tens of billions of dollars.
Phone firms are planning to offer wireless cable that beams programs by line of sight, cable TV companies are planning upgraded cable services and internet access over high speed networks, but satellite companies already have a lead.
"They are two or years out in front while the cable TV firms and telcos are just getting started," said Jimmy Schaeffler, an analyst at the Carmel Group.
One advantage of satellite services -- not lost on AT&amp;T, which has an option to take a stake of up to 30 percent in DirecTV -- is that consumers who buy a dish are not likely to write off the cost by switching to another provider.
AT&amp;T, which is suffering from heavy competition in long distance telephone services, is hoping to cut the loss of customers by tying them in to a satellite TV service.
"The bottom line is that this is all about market share," said Schaeffler.  -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
Jailed, sentenced to labour camps, cowed or exiled, China's pro-democracy activists have virtually vanished.
The latest dissident to be swallowed by China's gulag was prominent literary critic Liu Xiaobo, sentenced on Tuesday to three years in a labour camp. Veteran democracy activist Wang Xizhe has simply disappeared.
Any hopes among Chinese dissidents of a revival of their beleaguered movement may lie with the Nobel Committee in Oslo and whether it decides on Friday to select Nobel Peace Prize nominee and veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng.
However, few in China expect Wei, regarded as the father of China's struggling democracy movement and serving the first year of a 14-year jail term, to win the Nobel Peace Prize and thus halt the slow demise of Chinese dissent.
Members of Wei's family said they did not consider him a serious contender because of the strength of competition from front runners such as Richard Holbrooke, the U.S. architect of Bosnia's peace treaty, and former U.S. president Jimmy Carter.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang voiced outrage at the suggestion on Thursday.
"I have already stressed many times that Wei Jingsheng is a criminal who has broken Chinese law. This kind of criminal basically has no qualifications to win any prize," he said.
Wei was jailed for 15 years for his role in the 1979 Democracy Wall movement when he wrote an article that called for democracy as China's "Fifth Modernisation" and attacked paramount leader Deng Xiaoping as a dictator.
He was released on parole in September 1993 after serving 14-1/2 years and re-arrested the following April. He was sentenced to 14 years last December for plotting to subvert the government.
"Would it make a great deal of difference?" said one Western diplomat when asked about the impact if Wei were to win the Nobel Peace Prize. "It wouldn't get him out any quicker. It would turn the international spotlight on China for a little while but that of itself would not be enough to get the (democracy) movement going again."
Diplomats have expressed surprise at the rash of arrests and convictions of dissidents -- many of them sentenced to the administrative punishment of "re-education through labour" that avoids a complicated trial process.
"My feeling had been that the whole business was under control," the diplomat said. "There are a few who pop up and engage in experiments to annoy the authorities but they are nothing serious or threatening to the regime."
He attributed the new crackdown to a secret plenum of the Communist Party, expected to finish later on Thursday with a statement on the importance of "spiritual civilisation" -- or conformity to orthodox Marxist values.
"Everyone will be expected to think properly and so they may need to tidy up a remaining few loose ends," the diplomat said.
Liu Xiaobo, who gained fame during the 1989 student-led pro-democracy movement, was ordered to serve three years in a labour camp, a term imposed just hours after police detained him during a raid on his Beijing home.
Veteran pro-democracy activist Wang Xizhe, who recently joined Liu in a statement calling for the impeachment of President and party chief Jiang Zemin, had disappeared from his home in southern Guangzhou, his wife said.
On Thursday court officials told the family of Wang Dan, a detained dissident and leader of the 1989 student protests, to hire a lawyer on his behalf, his mother said. The Beijing People's Intermediate Court informed her that she had until Friday to find a lawyer, in a sign that his trial was imminent.
"They have had so many crackdowns in the past that most figures are under lock and key or safely out of the way abroad, and in either case pretty harmless," the diplomat said.
The largest electricity provider in the United States marched into Asia on Thursday with a US$2.7 billion deal to buy independent Hong Kong power producer, Consolidated Electric Power Asia Ltd.
Atlanta-based Southern Co said it made a general offer to all CEPA's shareholders after agreeing to buy most of a 60.4-percent stake held by CEPA parent, Hopewell Holdings Ltd.  
"The plan is to use this company as our growth vehicle in Asia," Ray Harris, regional director of Southern Electric International Inc, a unit of the Southern Co, told a news conference in the British colony.
"We think we paid a fair price and we see it as completing our geographical diversification from the United States," he said.
Hopewell said Southern aims to acquire 80 percent of CEPA's shares through a straightforward cash deal of HK$18.50 per share, or a cash and stock offer, he said.  
Hopewell has already agreed to tender 80 percent of its stake under an alternative cash and stock option, which offers one new CEPA share, cash of HK$69.50 and a contingency payment of HK$8.00 for every five CEPA shares.
The contingency payment depends on the company managing to secure a limited recourse debt for a power plant in Indonesia.
Hopewell will retain between 12.1 percent and 20 percent of the new company depending on which option shareholders choose.  
Southern's planned acquisition of 80 percent of CEPA's shares will effectively privatise the company, reducing its public float below Hong Kong stock exchange requirements and requiring it to de-list.
Shareholders, banks and regulators must still approve the deal, with shareholder meetings slated for November. Closing is expected before the end of the year.
Both Southern and CEPA said the takeover complements each other's strengths, with Southern renowned for its operating ability and CEPA one of the first to exploit Asia's quickening thirst for power.  
"This is, we felt, a very, very good marriage," said Stewart Elliott, CEPA's chief executive officer and managing director. "If we're going to see Asian growth as everyone has predicted, a massive amount of power is required."
Founded in 1993 as a holding company for Hopewell's power assets, CEPA owns some of southern China's largest power plants.
Its flagship Shajiao B project in Guangdong province was completed in 1987 at a cost of US$4.1 billion followed by the 1994 start-up of the US$1.87 billion Shajiao C power station.  
CEPA also owns substantial assets in the Philippines, and said it is negotiating to build more generating plants in southern China, the Philippines, Indonesia, India and Pakistan.
Harris said Southern was committed to pursuing all CEPA's existing plans, which he hopes will be augmented by Southern's expertise and financial muscle.
"We are very optimistic about the future... We would hope we would have some announcements in relation to new power plants (in the next six to 12 months)," Harris said.
Elliott and Gordon Wu, CEPA's executive chairman and the founder of Hopewell, will remain in place, he said.
Air Macau said it expects to carry beween 20 and 30 per cent more belly cargo when two more Airbus Industrie A321 aircraft are delivered to serve three new routes into China next year.
Speaking from the Portuguese enclave, Air Macau's cargo supervisor sales and marketing Simon Tang told Reuters the new airline is achieving 60 percent load factors on current available capacity.
Airline statistics show that Air Macau has carried 3091 tonnes of air cargo in the first nine months of cargo operations although during the first two months no cargo was carried.
The figures also show a steady increase from 161 tonnes in January to a high of 489 tonnes in August.
"For a newly established airline I am quite happy to have achieved 60 percent load factors so quickly," Tang said.
"Due to the new aircraft arriving next year and the new routes into China I expect cargo carrying capacity to increase by 20 to 30 percent which should be a dramatic improvement." he added.
The Airbus A321 aircraft on seven year leases will join the airline's four other A321 and smaller A320s which are due to begin flying to three new destinations in China -- Hainan Island, Qingdao and Wuhan, the airline said.
It began flying 11 months ago when Macau International Airport opened and currently serves six destinations with 63 frequencies per week to Bangkok, Beijing, Shanghai, Xiamen, Taipei and Kaohsiung in Taiwan.
The airline said it wants to fly to 22 destinations in the next three years including Australia, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Seoul.
Air Macau also said it expects to carry 30 percent more passengers than forecast for its first year of operation, a total of 650,000. Many use Macau as a staging post for semi-direct flights where they are not required to change planes between the Chinese mainland and Taiwan.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
Hong Kong's pro-Taiwan community flew Nationalist Chinese flags across the territory on Thursday to mark Taiwan's national day for what could be the last time before China takes over in mid-1997.
As champagne glasses clinked amidst the laughter of hundreds of guests, Taiwanese hosts and well-known artistes flown in for the grand event in the posh Regent Hotel fronting the Victoria Harbour, many wondered if they would be able to celebrate in the same style next year.
"We don't know about next year, we have to see how the future Hong Kong government decides," Zheng An Guo, general manager of the Chong Hua Travel Agency, Taipei's de facto mission in Hong Kong, told reporters.
Hong Kong, a British colony for over a century and a half, reverts to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997. Under its Basic Law, a mini-constitution which takes effect from the handover, is a clause that Hong Kong must observe the "one-China" principle.
Communist China regards Taiwan as a rebel province since the Nationalist government fled to the island after losing the Chinese civil war in 1949 and has long sought to push the island into diplomatic isolation.
"I'm not sure what the future is for the celebration of the Double-ten event next year but we really want to continue if we can, even (if it is) within some other format," said Zhang Su Hui, a Chong Hua spokeswoman.
She added the form of the event next year and the fate of future Hong Kong-Taiwan relations would have to be sorted out through high-level cross-straits negotiations.
Pro-Taiwan sources believe the post-handover authority is likely to prevent flashy celebrations of the event -- known as "Double-ten" because it falls on the 10th day of the 10th month -- and to bar public display of Taiwanese flags and gatherings.
While the continued existence of the de facto Taiwanese mission is less in doubt -- so long as it abides by rules -- the raising of the Taiwanese flag, representing clear skies, white sun and the earth flushed with redness of the warrior's blood, would probably not be allowed.
"This is very clear, and the principle is very clear... after 1997, Hong Kong must abide by the 'one China' principle as laid down in the Basic Law," said a spokesman with Xinhua, Beijing's de facto embassy in Hong Kong.
Asked if raising of the Taiwan flag after the handover would contravene the Basic Law, he said, "It should be. After 97, this matter according to the Basic Law would be enforced by the Hong Kong government, the central (Beijing) government would not interfere in this matter."
China plans to develop bigger rockets to carry heavier payloads into space and expand its role in the commercial satellite market, Chinese aerospace officials said on Thursday.
The ambitious, long-term goal was to build rockets that could carry 20-tonne payloads -- more than twice the current capacity of the nation's most powerful launch vehicles, they said.
"This is a long-term goal that could stretch into the second decade of the next century," said a spokeswoman for China Aerospace Corp, which coordinates China's satellite launch business.
"China needs rockets to put multiple satellites into orbit -- both for its own domestic use and to help its position in the commercial space market," she told Reuters.
China's existing rockets have the capacity to carry payloads of 9.2 tonnes for lower earth orbits and 3.4-5.0 tonnes for geosynchronous orbits.
It has already launched multiple satellites on a single launch but officials say more development is needed.
"We will begin a development programme as soon as possible to lay a firm foundation for the new development of Chinese launch vehicle technology in the 21st century," said Li Jianzhong, president of the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology.
"We will develop technologies, especially some key technologies for a heavy lift launch vehicle with a payload of 20 tonnes," he said in a paper delivered at an international conference on space technology.
He also said China would continue to study reusable space transport systems such as the U.S. space shuttle and manned flights -- although officials said these plans were unlikely to be taken into the development stage anytime soon.
China, which put its first satellite in orbit in 1970, has been trying to expand its role in the commercial space market, despite a series of recent setbacks.
A Chinese Long March 3 rocket, considered one of the nation's more reliable launch vehicles, failed to put a U.S.-built satellite into proper orbit in August.
"It was due to a tiny problem with a valve leakage," a scientist who worked on the rocket told Reuters.
"But that small error meant the whole launch was a failure."
In February, technical flaws had even more disastrous results when a Long March 3B rocket exploded shortly after lift-off, killing at least six people and injuring 57.
China says it still has a high success rate for its satellite launches but the latest setbacks have tarnished its reputation.
Beijing also sees a need to step up its satellite production technology.
"We are behind the West in rocket technology but we are even farther behind in satellites," said the China Aerospace spokeswoman. "We need to be able to build more sophisticated satellites with more transponders."
The development plans will require a lot of funding, and although senior Communist Party officials are backing the space campaign, there are plenty of other government projects that demand a share of the budget.
Chinese officials declined to say how much money would be committed to the rocket development project or the space sector overall.
"I can say that our space budget is merely a fraction of what the United States spends on its space programme," said a senior aerospace official.
British Governor Chris Patten challenged business on Thursday to defend the rule of law that had made Hong Kong a success, and to destroy fallacies that may harm the territory in the run-up to China's mid-1997 takeover.
"The rule of law is not an optional extra. It is what makes Hong Kong different, it is what makes Hong Kong successful," Patten told the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce in a speech.
"Without it, a lot of you would not be here," he said.
Britain hands back Hong Kong to China in 264 days from now, ending a century and a half of colonial rule over an outpost that has become one of Asia's economic pearls.
China has promised Hong Kong substantial autonomy and the preservation of its capitalist system under a "one country, two systems" formula.
Patten and chamber chairman James Tien glossed over an image projected in local newspapers lately that the governor and the business community were at loggerheads over 1997-related issues.
Several times this year Patten chastised businessmen who pandered to Beijing's communist rulers to beg favours and thus invited China to encroach upon Hong Kong's autonomy.
Tien stressed at Thursday's gathering that the key business body backed the government on key policies. Patten thanked them, drawing applause, and said his critics were in a minority.
Tien said the chamber supported the pegging of Hong Kong's currency to the U.S. dollar, the rule of law, the independence of judges and the civil service, and the commitment to good government.
But he did not mention Britain's demand for Hong Kong's fully elected legislature to continue after the 1997 handover, a major plank of Patten's policy, or China's plans to scrap this legislature and replace it with an appointed "provisional" body.
Asked by one businessman if there were any conditions under which Patten would cooperate with the "provisional legislature", the governor flatly replied "No".
Patten stressed the value of a political opposition. He cited a poll in which three-quarters of executives questioned said opposition to government posed no threat to a territory's prospects and that Hong Kong's opposition was in fact too weak.
"I'm very grateful to the chamber for everything they've been doing to redress the balance," he said, drawing guffaws of laughter for his ironic reference to barbs that he has received from some local business leaders in recent months.
Patten exhorted business to speak out for Hong Kong's autonomy, opposition to corruption, and for basic freedoms. He also asked it to help destroy four big fallacies that he said harmed Hong Kong's prospects and image.
These were the notions that Hong Kong's economy needed stimulative intervention, that it was over-regulated and was losing its competitive edge, that welfare spending was too high, and that the rule of law was irrelevant to economic success.
"You can give Hong Kong a lead in defending the rule of law, open and accountable government... by helping to nail the fallacies I have described. When you speak up for Hong Kong, it makes a difference," Patten said.
The fact that over half the companies listed on the Hong Kong bourse had domiciles in places such as Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, he said, showed the value the business community attached to the rule of law.
In recent years many firms have hedged their 1997 risks by shifting their legal domiciles to overseas jurisdictions.
China's private sector has become an important source of jobs for workers laid off by loss-making state enterprises and officials said on Thursday the jobless were able to find work despite fears of rising unemployment.
In 1995, the private sector hired 1.5 million workers made redundant from state- and collectively owned enterprises, an official of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce said in a telephone interview.
The official also noted a shift in the type of staff being employed by private enterprise as China's fastest growing sector expands and modernises.
"Before, employees were mainly peasants and young jobless," the administration official said.
"But in the last two years, the number of those employed after leaving state enterprises has increased," he said. "And there will be a bigger increase in employment of this type of worker in the next couple of years."
The main reason that workers were attracted to the sink-or-swim world of private enterprise from the jobs-for-life system in state firms was high wages, he said.
China's private companies and self-employed accounted for a total of 56 million jobs, or six percent of China's employed workers, at the end of 1995, he said.
China had 654,500 private companies and 25.28 million self-employed workers at the end of 1995 compared with none in 1979, when paramount leader Deng Xiaoping launched his market-oriented economic reforms.
Many had found jobs in Shenyang, at the heart of China's rust-belt and a city groaning with money-losing state firms, the official said. The city had found jobs for 800,000 laid-off workers in the last two years.
In Shanghai, more than 85,000 redundant state workers had created their own businesses or found jobs in private firms.
The administration official said private enterprise had averaged growth of 50 percent to 60 percent a year over the past three years, although that was expected to slow to about 30 percent over the next few years.
An official of the Ministry of Personnel said state enterprises had shed more than 2.0 million workers in recent years, many of them helped to find work by their former employers or through fledgling labour markets.
China's urban unemployment rate was 2.9 percent at the end of June, up by 0.01 percent from the same time last year, official figures show.
However, official media have warned that the actual rate could soar to 7.4 percent by 2000.
Nine out of 10 people entering the job market have found jobs through the new labour markets since 1995, the Xinhua news agency quoted an official of the Ministry of Personnel as saying.
The few who still enjoy the state's "iron rice bowl" in terms of assigning jobs include demobilised soldiers and college graduates.
At the start of 1995, China had more than 29,000 employment service organisations, which offered jobs to more than 12 million people last year, the official said.
China on Thursday said it was willing to cooperate with other countries to maintain peace on the troubled Korean peninsula, where tensions are high as South Korean troops hunt for infiltrators from the rival North.
"We are paying great attention to the situation on the Korean peninsula," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a briefing in Beijing.
"China is willing to cooperate with other countries to bring into play positive and constructive action to uphold the peninsula's peace and stability," Shen said.
Frosty relations between Seoul and Pyongyang worsened last month when 26 North Koreans landed in the south from a stranded submarine.
Southern troops have since killed or found dead 22 of the infiltrators, have captured one and are carrying out a huge hunt for the remaining three.
Pyongyang has threatened "merciless retaliation" for the deaths of its soldiers and demanded Seoul return the submarine along with any survivors and bodies of the dead crew.
Seoul says any provocation will meet "stern punishment" and has raised security at airports, ports, diplomatic missions and five vulnerable west coast islands.
China backed the north in the 1950-53 Korean War and remains one of communist Pyongyang's few diplomatic allies, but also considers Seoul an important trading partner.
Shen gave no details of what kind of cooperation China hoped would bolster peace on the heavily-militarised peninsula, where southern forces face a hostile north suffering near-famine after disastrous floods.
South Korea and the United States in April called for four-nation peace talks with the north and China to replace a truce that ended the Korean conflict but left Seoul and Pyongyang technically still at war.
Pyongyang has insisted on bilateral talks with Washington to seek an accord, saying Seoul was not a party to the 1953 truce. China has yet to take a clear stance on the four-way talks.
Beijing had no private interest in the Korean peninsula and only wanted peace and stability, Shen said.
Both North and South should take action to ensure peace, he said but gave no details.
Declaring their belief that the Internet will be the "next mass medium," Microsoft Corp. executives Thursday unveiled the new version of the company's MSN online service, with a heavy emphasis on entertainment programming.
Despite technical limitations that make true video impractical, many of the new MSN programs resemble daily and weekly television shows, with the service organized into six core "channels" aimed at specific demographic groups.
In little more than a year, MSN has become the No. 3 online service, with 1.6 million subscribers.
Company executives told a news briefing they expected to double that figure by mid-1997 and take market share from leader America Online Inc., relying in large part on a $100 million marketing campaign.
But the executives, conceding that the older America Online had a deeper and broader selection of content, said they planned to compete for new online customers, especially those under 30, rather than trying to persuade existing AOL customers to switch.
They were eager to heap criticism on the existing MSN service, launched along with the Windows 95 operating system in August 1995 but almost immediately overtaken by the rapid growth of the Internet.
"MSN was probably the worst of the bunch in terms of ease of use," said Laura Jennings, Microsoft vice president for the online service.
She also noted that the service had been gaining 100,000 subscribers a month despite virtually no advertising and problems, including a computer problem that has delayed bills to most customers for three months or more.
The new ad campaign will begin almost immediately with billboards and print advertisements followed by television commercials beginning in early November, when the service officially launches.
Microsoft also announced a new pricing scheme with an offer of unlimited access for $19.95 a month, instead of 20 hours for the same price under the current service. The minimum monthly fee will rise to $6.95 for five hours, in line with rival services and up from $4.95 for three hours under the current service.
Industry analysts said the new pricing probably would force America Online to follow suit and offer a package with unlimited service. Currently AOL offers heavy users 20 hours a month for $19.95.
David Readerman of Montgomery Securities pointed out that Microsoft has the advantage of a hugely profitable business in desktop software and operating systems, while rivals AOL and CompuServe Inc. are dependent on the online business.
"Microsoft has $8 billion in cash," he said. "That gives them the financial strength to make a long-term investment, and that's what they're doing."
Microsft stock ended down 75 cents at $133.75 and Compuserve lost 25 cents to $12, both on Nasdaq. America Online fell $1 to $25.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The heart of the relaunched MSN is an uncluttered browser interface dominated by a promotional "billboard" in the center of the screen and the six "channels" at the bottom corresponding to categories such as news, entertainment, education and children.
Clicking on the channels leads into programming developed by Microsoft and partners that ranges from the MSNBC news service to new interactive serial programs.
Among the programs demonstrated were quiz shows, a humorous daily news audiocast and magazine-type presentations such as "Underwire," produced by and for women.
The service also includes electronic mail, "chat" and a more traditional menu of online categories that leads users to areas within MSN or on the Internet.
Most content in the service will be restricted to subscribers using the company's Windows 95 computer operating system and Internet Explorer browser, and executives would not say whether they have plans to produce a version for the older Windows 3.1 system still used by tens of millions of computer owners.
Some features of MSN, including MSNBC news, electronic shopping and the planned Expedia consumer travel service, will be available at no cost to anyone with access to the Internet.
Patty Stonesifer, Microsoft senior vice president for interactive media, said the company's broad involvement in online consumer services was driven by "our belief that the Internet is the next mass medium."
By some estimates, only 10 million of the nation's 99 million households are currently online, though others say even that figure is high.
Ford Motor Co. Thursday announced sweeping organisational changes and a major shake-up of its senior management, replacing the head of its global automotive operations.
The moves include combining Ford's four components divisions into a single organisation with 75,000 employees and $14 billion in revenues, and a consolidation of the automaker's vehicle product development centres to three from five.
As part of the management changes, Ford named group Vice President Jacques Nasser, 48, a personable, fast-rising cost-cutter, to replace Edward Hagenlocker, 56, as president of its global automotive operations.
Hagenlocker, who headed Ford's core car and truck business for nearly three years, was named a vice chairman, overseeing the new components unit, land development, technical affairs and rental car operations.
Hagenlocker, a reserved engineer who came up through Ford's truck operations, has in the past come under fire for the auto unit's lackluster financial performance. For the first half of 1996, the worldwide auto unit's profits were $1.25 billion, down from $2.24 billion a year ago.
Hagenlocker has also been criticised for the slower-than-expected start of the redesigned Taurus and the decision not to offer a fourth door on Ford's minivans.
The moves, which had been rumoured for months, intensify the race to succeed Alex Trotman, who currently holds the titles of chairman, chief executive and president. In 1998, Trotman reaches the mandatory retirement age of 65, but the board could ask him to stay on longer.
Trotman, briefing reporters on the changes at Ford World Headquarters, declined to comment on the succession issue.
Ford said it would reorganize its global product development operations for the second time in two years. The changes, which call for Ford to reduce its vehicle line directors to 11 from 17, come less than two years after the automaker embarked on its ambitious "Ford 2000" global reorganization plan, which combined the U.S. and European development groups into a single unit.
Trotman said formation of the new Automotive Products Operation will help the company streamline its component operations into a single enterprise that will be more competitive with other auto suppliers.
Trotman said Ford wants the unit to increase its sales from non-Ford customers. Currently, the vast majority of the unit's revenues come from internal Ford customers, with non-Ford automakers contributing about 5 percent.
No significant headcount changes are expected. But Trotman said an evaluation under way could result in new acquisitions as well as divestitures of existing product lines.
"We are separating the automotive components business from Ford Automotive Operations to focus senior management attention on making it more competitive in its own right," he said. "I have asked Ed Hagenlocker to take on the crucial assignment of making this happen."
Analysts applauded the move, with one saying changes to Ford 2000 are overdue because the initiative needs a sharper focus.
"What Ford 2000 taught us is that they had too many cooks working on the broth," said Eugene Jennings, a retired professor of management at Michigan State University and long-time Big Three automaker watcher.
He also approved of giving Hagenlocker responsibility for the parts business. "It puts a top officer directly in charge of the major challenge for the next 10 years -- and that's components," Jennings said.
Also named a vice chairman was Executive Vice President Wayne Booker, 62, who remains in charge of the automaker's international operations. Chief Financial Officer and Group Vice President John Devine, 52, also was promoted to executive vice president.
Ford said it promoted Vice President James Englehart, 59, to take Nasser's old job of group vice president responsible for product development. Englehart was previously vice president for the vehicle centre that developed light trucks primarily for personal use.
In the future, Ford will have three vehicle centres for car and truck development: Truck, to be headed by Vice President Jim Donaldson; Small and Medium Car, to be headed by Vice President Richard Parry-Jones; and Large and Luxury Car, to be headed by Vice President Ken Kohrs.
The small and medium-car development centre will continue to be based in Merkenich, Germany and Dunton, England, while both the truck and large/luxury car centres will be based in Dearborn, Mich. Previously, Ford had a development centre in Merkenich and Dunton for small front-drive cars and in Dearborn for large front-drive cars, for rear-drive cars, for light trucks and for commercial trucks.
"We have beeen able to simplify and streamline the organisational structure now that we are reducing our vehicle platforms by 50 percent," Trotman said. "Using the 16 vehicle plaforms and at the same time increasing the number of derivatives, we can provide a broader array of vehicles for customers in many more markets," he said.
Monsanto Co. said Thursday it is considering several options for the future, including splitting into two separate, publicly traded corporations -- one a life sciences company and one a chemical business.
Other options being weighed by the St. Louis-based company are to sell or merge its chemical businesses with other firms or to keep the chemical operations and restructure them.
"In recent years, the strategies and needs of the chemical and life sciences businesses have become quite different," Chairman Robert Shapiro said in a statement.
Wall Street applauded the possible sale or spin-off of the chemical business, which had been expected, sending Monsanto's stock to a new 52-week high of $42.75 early in the day. The shares later traded at $42, up $1.375.
Analysts said Monsanto's life science businesses -- including agricultural chemicals, biotechnology, food additives and pharmaceuticals -- likely would have a higher valuation as a separate company than if Monsanto remained intact.
"The key here is that the chemical business does not have the growth potential as the ag-biotech and the ag-chemical and the drug component could," NatWest Securities analyst Mark Wiltamuth said.
Monsanto Chief Economist Nicholas Filippello said in a telephone interview that no options for the chemical operations had been ruled out.
He added that a decision was expected to be made as soon as possible, but did not give a timeframe. "As soon as practical," he said.
Monsanto had been expected to shed its chemical businesses, which are affected by economic cycles and the price of commodity raw materials, since the sale late last year of its worldwide styrenics plastics business.
In recent months, it has been the strength of Monsanto's agricultural business that has propelled the stock upward.
Spinning off the chemical businesses as a separate company was the option that most analysts favoured, since it would not have the tax implication of an outright sale.
"I would say the chances of keeping it (chemicals) and restructuring it are pretty slim," Dain Bosworth analyst Bonnie Wittenburg said.
The chemical businesses that may be sold or spun off include nylon and acrylic fibers, Saflex plastic interlayer, which is sold to glass manufacturers, and speciality chemicals.
"The chemical operations ... would be very viable as a standalone company," said NatWest analyst Andrew Cash.
Cash said Monsanto's acrylic fiber, nylon and Saflex businesses have limited competition in the United States and very favourable cost structures.
"It would be a focused company with good technology ... and a lot of interest in the assets from a stock market perspective, if they choose to spin it off," Cash said.
However, agricultural chemicals would remain as one of the crown jewels of the life sciences division.
Monsanto's popular Roundup weed killer is key to Monsanto's agricultural biotechnology business. The company has developed crops that are genetically altered to resist Roundup.
The life science operations also would include food additives and Monsanto's G.D. Searle pharmaceutical division. In a recent report, NatWest said it expected Monsanto to keep Searle, which some analysts previously thought would be sold.
In 1995 Monsanto's chemical sales of $3.69 billion accounted for about 40 percent of the company's total sales of $8.96 billion. The chemical businesses' operating profit of $357 million was 30 percent of the total profit of $1.17 billion.
In contrast, agricultural profit of $523 million accounted for nearly 45 percent of the total.
Pall Corp and Memtec Ltd may have different reasons, but they seem equally determined to acquire Gelman Sciences Inc.
Analysts and arbitrageurs were reluctant to say whether that portends an all-out bidding war, especially after a rally in American Depositary Shares of Memtec on Thursday that reflected some doubt on Wall Street of Memtec's commitment.
Still, Gelman would nicely complement the operations of either suitor and will likely be hotly pursued by both, filtration industry analysts said.  
Shares in Ann Arbor, Mich.-based Gelman closed up 3 at 29 on the American Stock Exchange on the news that it was in discussions with Pall about a possible acquisition.
Gelman reached a definitive agreement on August 30 to be acquired by Australia's Memtec, which said Thursday it intends to proceed with the agreement.
"I don't think Memtec is going to back away," said Robert W. Baird &amp; Co analyst Walter Morris.
Memtec wants Gelman's sophisticated membrane technology to put Memtec into closer competition with East Hills, N.Y.-based Pall and Millipore Corp, Morris said. 
Pall -- much larger than either Gelman or Memtec -- wants Gelman to broaden Pall's medical and process businesses and "frankly, to eliminate a pesky competitor," Morris said.
Gelman sales in fiscal 1996 ended July 31 were $112 million, versus $103.5 million in fiscal 1995. Memtec sales in the year ended June 30 were $175 million, up from $145 million in fiscal 1995. Pall had revenues of $960.3 million in fiscal 1996 ended August 3, up from $822.2 million in fiscal 1995.
"Pall under chief executive Eric Krasnoff has been more acquisitive than under previous management teams," said Morgan Stanley &amp; Co analyst Mark Gulley.  
"If he does this deal, it will have been his third acquisition" since taking the helm at Pall about two years ago, Gulley said.
Krasnoff's acquisitions have tended to broaden Pall's presence in existing markets, rather than move it into new areas -- a pattern into which a Gelman acquisition would fit, said Fourteen Research analyst Anthony Ginsberg.
"There's good overlap ... They're in many of the same venues and markets," Gulley said.
Morris said, "Gelman is strategically important to both companies."
Arbitrageurs seemed to cast doubt Thursday on Memtec's contention that it plans to proceed with the Gelman deal by bidding up the Australian company's American depository shares as much as 3-5/8 in the morning. They lost ground in the afternoon to close up 1-15/16 at 28-15/16.
The rally in part was likely explained by short covering, arbitrageurs said.
Late Thursday, Gelman issued a statement saying it intended to pursue its agreement with Memtec, but also to talk with Pall and any other interested parties.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Ford Motor Co. is in talks with the Detroit Lions on a multi-million dollar deal to purchase naming rights to the football team's proposed new stadium in downtown Detroit, Ford Chairman Alex Trotman said Thursday.
The deal, expected to be signed in the next few days, comes as little surprise, since the Lions are owned by Ford board members William Clay Ford and his son, William Clay Ford Jr.
Trotman, speaking to reporters following a Ford board of directors meeting at the automaker's Dearborn, Mich., headquarters, said reports that Ford would pay $30 million to $40 million for the rights "aren't far off" from the deal Ford is discussing with the National Football League team.
Trotman said the company wants to have exclusive rights with the Ford name prominently featured on the domed structure, but has not yet decided on a specific name.
"It would be big-time Ford something -- we don't know what -- either Ford Stadium or Ford Dome," Trotman said.
William Clay Ford Jr., who holds the Ford board's purse strings as chairman of its finance committee, abstained from board discussions of the project, as did his father. The new stadium project is largely viewed as the younger Ford's brainchild.
A contribution of $30 million to $40 million would help the $225 million domed stadium meet a major financing hurdle -- the Lions face a Nov. 1 deadline to gain committments for $50 million in corporate and private contributions.
The proposed 65,000-seat football stadium would be built near the end of the decade next to a new $240 million, open-air ballpark for the Detroit Tigers on the edge of downtown Detroit that would seat about 45,000 people.
The Lions would leave the Pontiac Silverdome in suburban Pontiac, Mich., where they have played for the past 21 years, but have pledged to honour terms of their current lease, which expires in 2004.
The 80,000-seat Silverdome, opened in 1975 at a city-financed cost of $50 million, would become the youngest major league sports facility in the United States to be replaced with a new venue.
Most U.S. software publishers are expected to report only modest increases in their third-quarter earnings, reflecting a seasonal slowdown and a lack of new products this quarter.
"For the behemoths of the industry, like Microsoft (Corp) and Oracle (Corp ), business is still good," said Marshall Senk, an analyst at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co in San Francisco. "Summer is the slow buying season for most of the industry," but setting aside the seasonal slowing, "business is still pretty okay."  
Analysts expect Microsoft, the world's biggest personal computer software publisher, to report substantially higher earnings for its first quarter of fiscal 1997 on the back of strong sales of its networking software and business programs. Microsoft is scheduled to report results on Oct. 21.
Better-than-expected sales of personal computers in the past few months also will contribute to Microsoft's revenue, analysts said. Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., makes about a quarter of its revenue from the sale of its Windows family of operating systems.  Operating systems are the type of software that controls the basic functions of every PC.  
Microsoft benefits from strong PC sales because PC makers have to pay Microsoft a royalty for every copy of Windows they pack in the boxes of new machines.
Wall Street expects Microsoft to earn $0.90 a share, according to a survey of 24 analysts by First Call.  In the same quarter a year ago, Microsoft earned $0.78.
Novell Inc, the biggest publisher of computer networking software, is not expected to perform as well.  
The company is struggling to sell its NetWare flagship -- which controls the flow of computer information through departmental computer departments -- in the face of competition with Microsoft's Windows.  Novell, based in Provo, Utah, also still faces management issues following the resignation of Bob Frankenberg, the former chief executive officer, said David Takata, an analyst at Gruntal &amp; Co in Los Angeles.
"They clearly still have a lot of work to do" to get the company's management in order, Takata said.  
Novell is expected to earn $0.18 a share in its fiscal fourth quarter, compared with $0.16 a year ago, according to a First Call survey of 17 analysts.
Meanwhile, vendors of software for large, corporate computer networks and database management tools are expected to continue to post substantial gains in the third quarter on continuing strong demand.
"For a relatively mature market, this niche is still growing at a good clip," said Jim Pickrel, an analyst at Hambrecht &amp; Quist in San Francisco.  
Pickrel said he expects Oracle and Informix Corp to report the most impressive results on strong sales of their database software -- computer programs which help big companies keep track of huge libraries of corporate information.  Both are taking business from Sybase Inc,  another database software publisher, which is still struggling to recover from marketing and technical shortcomings last year.
Sybase,is expected to report it broke even in the quarter, not counting charges for a restructuring, Pickrel said.  In the year-earlier quarter, Sybase earned $0.01 a share.  
Oracle, the biggest database software publisher, is expected to earn $0.27 a share for the fiscal second quarter ending November, according to a recent survey of 27 analysts by First Call.  A year ago in the same quarter, it earned $0.21.
Hambrecht &amp; Quist's Pickrel said Informix could pass Sybase this quarter in revenue to become the second biggest database vendor.  Informix is expected to earn $0.18 a share, according to a First Call survey of 25 analysts.  In the same quarter a year ago, Informix earned $0.16.
Shedding its chemical businesses would leave Monsanto Co as a pure play in the high-growth life sciences area with attractive agricultural biotechnology and pharmaceutical holdings.
"This entity is likely to (have) a higher valuation by itself than with the chemical businesses intact," NatWest Securities analyst Mark Wiltamuth said Thursday.
"The key here is that the chemical business does not have the growth potential as the ag biotech and the ag chemical and the drug component could," he added.  
Earlier, Monsanto said it might spin off its chemical businesses, sell or merge them with other companies, or keep and restructure the operations.
The news sent the stock up 1-3/8 at 42 at mid-day, after setting a new 52-week high of 42-3/4.
"It has become increasingly clear, especially over the last couple of years, that the directions and the needs of the life sciences businesses and the chemical businesses were quite different," Nicholas Filippello, Monsanto chief economist, said in a telephone interview. "We feel that we are doing this from a position of strength."  
Analysts said the St. Louis-based company had been expected to shed its chemical businesses since the sale late last year of its worldwide stryrenics plastics business.
"I would say the chances of keeping it (chemicals) and restructuring it are pretty slim," said Dain Bosworth analyst Bonnie Wittenburg.
The chemical businesses that may be sold or spun off include nylon and acrylic fibers, Saflex plastic interlayer that is sold to glass manufacturers, and specialty chemicals.
"The chemical operations...would be very viable as a stand alone company," NatWest analyst Andrew Cash said.  
Cash said Monsanto's acrylic fiber, nylon and Saflex businesses have limited competition in the United States and very favorable cost structures.
"It would be a focused (chemical) company with good technology...and a lot of interest in the assets from a stock market perspective if they choose to spin it off," Cash added.
Agricultural chemicals would remain as one of the crown jewels of the life sciences division, analysts said.
Agricultural chemicals, including Roundup herbicide, is key to Monsanto's agricultural biotechnology. The company has developed crops that are genetically altered to resist the use of Roundup in the fields to kill weeds.
The life science operations also would include food additives and the G.D. Searle pharmaceutical division. In a recent report, NatWest said it expected Monsanto to keep Searle, which some analysts previously thought would be sold.
While Monsanto is expected to spin off or sell its chemical operations, rather than keep and restructure them, Filippello said all options are being studied. He added that a decision is expected soon, but did not give a timeframe.
"As soon as is practical," he added.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Third quarter results at both MCI Communications Corp and Sprint Corp will be restrained by the cost of new ventures, and in Sprint's case the issue of new shares will lower per share earnings.
But analysts say both have so far escaped the problems which have hit AT&amp;T Corp in the consumer long distance market, and which led to AT&amp;T's profit warning in September.
"MCI will have increased earnings, but will continue the second quarter trend of slower long distance volume growth," Massick said Bette Massick of brokerage Bear Stearns.  
Sprint's earnings per share are expected to be lower than a year ago because of investment in the international Global One venture and in Personal Communications Services.
Sprint's shares in issue will rise to about 435 million, from 351 million a year ago, because of stock issued to partners Deutsche Telekom  DTK.CN and French Telecom.
MCI's heavy investment in media, Internet and satellite services with News Corp Ltd is not expected to break even for several years.
"The dilutive effects of the MCI ventures will increase year over year," Massick said.  
AT&amp;T said on September 24 that earnings per share could be as much as 10 percent below analysts' forecasts of $0.92 per share for the third quarter.  If this fear were realized, it would report earnings of $0.83, 13.5 percent below the $0.96 of a year earlier.
Analysts say AT&amp;T's problems were an expensive and flawed consumer market strategy of trying to win customers by offering them $100 checks and the competitive effect of small, fast-growing resellers and "dial around" services.  
Resellers include companies like Excel Communications Inc, which have produced 50 percent-plus annual revenue growth by using independent sales representatives to sell to friends, family and associates.
Dial around is so named because customers use a 1-800 number to access a rival service advertising cut price rates for long distance or international calling, without switching their long distance provider.
The long distance giants do not lose the customer, but notice a fall in average billable revenue.  
MCI expects higher customer turnover in consumer markets because of increased competition. But neither it nor Sprint depends as heavily on the consumer market as AT&amp;T does.
Merrill Lynch analyst Dan Reingold said in a research report that demand demand for Sprint's services is robust.
"Our forecast minute (of use) growth rate of 9.1 percent should be almost double the industry average...indicating that Sprint continues to take market share," Reingold said.
By contrast he expected AT&amp;T minutes of use to grow by 6.2 percent from a year ago, and revenue on this to rise just 1.5 percent.
This growth gap of 4.7 percentage points would exceed the 3.4 percent of the second quarter, he said.
Analysts say Sprint and MCI are not immune to the threat from dial around and resellers, but in any case the threat will be contained in the next two or three years.
"I think the idea of packages or bundles of services will be very much a threat to the small dial around competition because they won't be able to compete up and down the product chain," said Guy Woodlief of brokers Dean Witter Reynolds.  
AT&amp;T's adoption of a flat rate 15 cent long distance charge should help it regain market share, especially against Sprint, which charges a flat 25 cents during the day.
Such is the danger is adopting a clear pricing policy -- when more than one major competitor does it comparisons become easy and can lead to a downward spiral in calling charges.
"Given AT&amp;T's brand position in the market place, it is going to remain a formidable competitor," said Woodlief. Company   (all in dollars)    Q3 est   yr ago  results date
Sprint Corp................0.73.......0.76..Oct 16
AT&amp;T Corp .................0.83.......0.90..Oct 17
MCI Communications Corp... 0.44.......0.40..Oct 22
Estimates from First Call. Reporting dates from analysts
French diversified conglomerate Bouygues on Thursday said Italy's STET was joining its efforts to become a leading player in France's telecommunications market after full liberalisation of the sector in 1998.
Bouygues, active in construction, television and communication, said STET would take a 49 percent stake in a new joint venture with Bouygues, called Bouygues-STET, in which the French group would hold 51 percent.
This company, together with German partner VEBA, plans to bid to run the telephone infrastructure of French state railways group SNCF.
Bouygues will compete in French telecommunications with state-owned France Telecom, of which a 20 percent stake will be floated in April, and with CEGETEL the telecoms company majority owned by Generale des Eaux.
STET will also buy into the BDT holding company which is 51-percent owner of Bouygues Telecom. Bouygues said that BDT was valued at 13.75 billion francs and STET would during 1996 and 1997 pay 1.71 billion francs to buy new shares in BDT.
After this increase, Bouygues will have 59.5 percent of BDT, Jean-Claude Decaux International 20.9 percent and STET 19.6 percent.
VEBA has a 15 percent direct stake in Bouygues Telecom. Other stake holders are Cable &amp; Wireless Plc, US West International and banks BNP and Paribas.
Last month, Generale des Eaux said it was forming a telecoms unit CEGETEL with British Telecommunications Plc, SBC of the United States and Mannesman AG of Germany.
Analysts have said they are also awaiting a move by AT&amp;T on the French market.
France Telecom has Deutsche Telekom and Sprint Corp as partners.
Bouygues in May started France's third mobile telecommuncitions network, aiming at a 20 percent market share in the year 2000.
The activity in the French telecommunications sector are similar to alliances forming in Germany.
British Telecom Plc is allied to German utility Viag AG. On Wednesday, RWE dropped their company from an alliance with Veba and Cable and Wireless.
Declaring their belief that the Internet will be the "next mass medium," Microsoft Corp. executives Thursday unveiled the new version of the company's MSN online service, with a heavy emphasis on entertainment programming.
Despite bandwidth limitations and other technical obstacles that make full-motion video impractical, many of the new MSN programmes resemble daily and weekly television shows, with the service organised into six core "channels" aimed at specific demographic groups.
In little more than a year, MSN has become the No. 3 online service, with 1.6 million subscribers. Company executives told a news briefing they expected to double that figure by mid-1997 and take market share from leader America Online Inc., relying in large part on a $100 million marketing campaign.
But the executives, conceding that the older America Online had a deeper and broader selection of content, said they planned to compete for new online customers, especially those under 30, rather than trying to persuade existing AOL customers to switch.
They were eager to heap criticism on the existing MSN service, launched along with the Windows 95 operating system in August 1995 but almost immediately overtaken by the rapid growth of the Internet.
"MSN was probably the worst of the bunch in terms of ease of use," said Laura Jennings, Microsoft vice president for the online service.
But she also noted that the service had been gaining 100,000 subscribers a month despite virtually no advertising and problems, including a computer snafu that has delayed bills to most customers for three months or more.
The new ad campaign will begin almost immediately with billboards and print advertisements followed by television commercials beginning in early November, when the service officially launches.
Microsoft also announced a new pricing scheme with an offer of unlimited access for $19.95 a month, instead of 20 hours for the same price under the current service. The minimum monthly fee will rise to $6.95 for five hours, in line with rival services and up from $4.95 for three hours under the current service.
The heart of the relaunched MSN is an uncluttered browser interface dominated by a promotional "billboard" in the centre of the screen and the six "channels" at the bottom corresponding to broad categories such as news, entertainment, education and children.
Clicking on the channels leads into programming developed by Microsoft and its partners that ranges from the MSNBC news service to new interactive serial programmes. Among the programmes demonstrated were quiz shows, a humorous daily news audiocast and magazine-type presentations such as "Underwire," produced by and for women.
The service also includes electronic mail, "chat" and a more traditional menu of online categories that leads users to areas within MSN or out on the Internet.
Most content in the service will be restricted to subscribers using the company's Windows 95 computer operating system and Internet Explorer browser, and executives would not say whether they have plans to produce a version for the older Windows 3.1 system still used by tens of millions of computer owners.
Some features of MSN, including MSNBC news, electronic shopping and the planned Expedia consumer travel service, will be available at no cost to anyone with access to the Internet.
Patty Stonesifer, Microsoft senior vice president for interactive media, said the company's broad involvement in online consumer services was driven by "our belief that the Internet is the next mass medium.
"We need to provide compelling reasons to go online and stay online," she said. "There aren't enough compelling reasons to do that today."
By some estimates, only 10 million of the nation's 99 million households are currently online, though others say even that figure is high.
Financial services and property group Liberty International Holdings on Thursday unveiled a move into the British pensions market in ventures involving the British Telecom Pension Scheme and pension fund management group Hermes.
Liberty is establishing its own pensions company, Liberty International Pensions, which will target both the needs of money purchase pension schemes and retail pensions.
BT Pension Scheme, which owns Hermes, is to pay five million pounds ($7.8 million) for 10 percent of the equity of Liberty International Pensions, with the rest held by Liberty.
Liberty and Hermes said in a joint statement they were also setting up a new subsidiary called Hermes Liberty International Pensions to offer specialised investment services to the British pensions industry, with Hermes as fund manager.
BT Pension Scheme is giving the Hermes Liberty joint venture "critical mass from the outset" with a 1.5 billion pound transfer of assets to the new funds, Liberty's chairman Donald Gordon said.
Gordon said Liberty was "well positioned to take advantage of the changes affecting the UK pensions industry." Hermes' expertise in investment management and track record would help it to provide quality and competitively priced pension services.
David Fischel, Liberty's managing director, said Liberty International Pensions still required approval of Britain's Department of Trade and Industry but was otherwise ready for launch.
Hermes called the joint pensions venture a meeting of minds.
"Liberty has the ability and techniques of selling pensions, it also has the systems...and the administration. We on the other hand are good at our particular core areas of investment management...we think that's a very good marriage," Alastair Ross Goobey, chief executive of Hermes, said.
Ross Goobey said Hermes had approached Liberty International only to find the group had been considering an approach to Hermes.
"It really was a meeting of minds on this. Whether it develops further from this we shall see. I think one step at a time is quite enough for us."
He said the venture would probably not be up and running until the first quarter of next year as regulatory approval first had to be obtained for the new group.
The decision by the giant British Telecom Pension Scheme to transfer assets to the new Hermes Liberty International Pensions funds would give the new venture a boost.
"I would hope it gives some people some feeling of security that BT Pension Scheme, which is after all the biggest in the country, is willing to do this," he said.
Liberty plans to sell personal pensions at its regional shopping centres, which are held through a majority-owned subsidiary Capital Shopping Centres. These have more than 150 million customer visits a year, Liberty said.
Fischel said an announcement would be made on exactly how the retail customer business would work at a future date, adding he could not give details at present. ($1=.6395 Pound)
Time in Tibet is a moveable feast.
In this far-flung outpost of Chinese rule, the clocks are synchronised with Beijing more than 2,560 km (1,590 miles) to the northeast, but dawn is two hours behind and everyone goes to work about two hours later than in Beijing.
It is not only Tibetan time that lags the rest of China. The economy in this Himalayan region, still based largely on yaks, goats and Buddhism, also trails.
Beijing says it is doing its utmost to narrow the gap and to make up for destruction wrought on Tibet's monasteries and temples in China's ultra-leftist 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.
It has pumped more than 35 billion yuan (US$4.2 billion) into the inaccessible, remote and backward region long peopled by nomadic herders and barter traders, officials say.
The funds are also useful to buttress control of the restive and strategically important region that borders India.
The investment is slowly paying off.
Economic growth in 1995 reached 10.6 percent, up from 8.6 percent the year before. Rural per capita incomes were about 600 yuan ($72) a year while urban incomes neared 2,000 yuan ($240) -- both still about half the national average but increasing rapidly.
In the capital Lhasa, the swift growth of commerce has taken even local leaders by surprise.
"I thought it would take several years before we could attract any real interest," said Chen Ciduan, president of the Tibet Investment and Trust Corporation that in 1994 set up a stocks trading centre in Lhasa.
"But we had to double our space last year and we are already overcrowded and making plans for another expansion," he said.
That's the high flying end of economic development in Tibet.
For those at the other end of the scale, Beijing is trying to make things easier with preferential policies to help a people struggling into the late 20th century from a lifestyle that more closely resembles the middle ages.
Income tax holidays, tax breaks and easy loans are just some of the incentives available to businessman in Tibet. The concessions are also attracting numerous entrepreneurs from elsewhere in China where such favourable policies are not available.
In Lhasa, one street specialises in selling the highly-decorated, colourfully-painted furniture favoured by Tibetans. Another sells fake leather sofas that appeal to Han Chinese residents.
Chinese restaurants abound, cheek by jowl with Tibetan-managed shops selling yak butter, computer parts and bolts of brocade and wool.
Tibet offers some of China's oddest employment opportunities.
In a tiny one-room workshop leased from a struggling state-owned factory processing yak horns, seven artisans from neighbouring Yunnan province hammer traditional silver bowls embossed with Buddhist symbols.
"We were already making these Buddhist artifacts in Yunnan anyway," said workshop owner Li Wenhan, 26. "It's only because there is so much demand here that we came. We could easily sell these in Yunnan, but here they need them."
Li said 40 percent of the goods they make are for export, 20-30 percent are sold to Tibetans and the rest distributed elsewhere in China.
The success of Li's business underscores a problem in Tibet that must be as frustrating for its Chinese masters seeking to lead the region into prosperity as for many educated Tibetans.
"The Tibetans lack education and a mentality of work," said one Tibetan-Nepali businessman who was born in Lhasa.
"They don't appreciate the need to work, they just want to make a profit straight away," he said. "It's very sad. They are too impatient to understand that you have to earn a living through steady work."
While some might dispute that view, no one questions that Tibet is among China's poorest and most inaccessible regions. Out of Tibet's 2.3 million people, about 400,000 live below the official poverty line.
Officials oversee one of China's most innovative anti-poverty policies in the deeply devout Buddhist area where many still donate much of what they earn to monasteries and temples and where education is costly.
"We are determined to bring all Tibetans out of poverty by the end of the century," said an official who declined to be identified.
Almost all Tibetan government officials are involved in anti-poverty programmes. Each government department in the Tibet Autonomous Region sends officials into rural areas each year -- both to see where government money and aid are most needed and to teach poverty-stricken nomads how to boost their incomes.
Many of Tibet's worst off are nomads living in remote mountain areas, many with large flocks of yaks, goats and sheep, but with little idea of how to exploit their resources.
The nomads either use their animals to feed themselves or, when their numbers climb, set them free as an offering to Buddha to try to win merit for their next reincarnation, believing that their station in each life is dependent on their behaviour in the previous one.
"Many of these people have assets but they are still poor because they don't know how to use them," the official said.
Tibet does not rely on handouts alone. Since last year it has worked at setting up sister relationships with 14 of China's booming eastern cities and provinces.
These wealthy cousins each send between 10 to 20 officials to work for three years in the region over a 10-year period and also provide financial resources.
The provinces are helping Tibet with 43 projects, mostly in infrastructure. Initial investment was 2.3 billion yuan ($277.1 million) but now totals more than 3.0 billion yuan ($361 million).
"Tibet's capacity to develop itself is very low," the official said. "It's hampered by its geological conditions such as lack of infrastructure and its remoteness. And it takes a long time to move away from the previous feudal serf system.
"This is a very beautiful place but we have a very arduous task ahead."
($1.0=8.3 yuan)
Australian oil and gas companies are being snapped up by foreign companies with an eye for undervalued stocks, but analysts say the sector faces a bright future with higher oil prices and a deregulated gas market.
During 1996, there has been about A$2.5 billion (US$1.98 billion) worth of takeovers announced in Australia's shrinking oil and gas sector and another A$600 million worth of asset sales as some non-oil and gas players quit the local market.
Local oil groups with low share prices and overseas assets have struck the eye of hungry foreign companies, analysts said.
"Overseas people appreciate the value of oil and gas assets, particularly in southeast Asia, but I don't think the market is fully valuing these assets through the share prices," Timothy Savage, an oil and gas analyst at Hartley Poynton, told Reuters.
The A$1.78 billion tilt by U.S. oil giant Mobil Corp for Sydney-based Ampolex Ltd in February was the largest bid made this year in the sector, while British oil producers are also showing an active interest in Australian oil firms.
Brisbane-based Crusader Ltd was taken over mid-year by Clyde Petroleum Plc of the UK, while in the past month Premier Oil Plc has made a bid for Discovery Petroleum NL and Cairn Energy Plc has made a offer for Command Petroleum Ltd.
Most of the Australian oil groups that have attracted predator attention have been producers with oil assets offshore, said Stuart Baker, an oil and gas analyst with BT Securities.
"It is no coincidence at all that the companies that have disappeared have been always companies that have endeavoured to build an overseas presence, and they have all without exception been taken over," Baker told Reuters.
However the rise in the oil price this year had not been a reason for the corporate activity, analysts said. The main oil futures contract traded in New York has risen almost 50 percent over the past five months to about US$25.50 a barrel.
"Takeovers have been a feature of this sector for years and it doesn't seem to matter if the oil price is up or down," Baker said.
Baker said oil companies making the bids have a double positive effect from the oil price rise with increased cash flow and a boost in share prices making it easier for companies to raise equity and debt.
Remaining potential targets in the local oil and gas sector were medium-sized groups like Cultus Petroleum Ltd and Petroz NL which have assets in the prospective Timor Sea area.
The sector's largest listed companies, Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Santos Ltd, were unlikely bid targets, analysts said. (A$1 = $0.79)
Australian oil and gas companies are being snapped up by foreign companies with an eye for undervalued stocks, but analysts say the sector faces a bright future with higher oil prices and a deregulated gas market.
During 1996, there has been about A$2.5 billion (US$1.98 billion) worth of takeovers announced in Australia's shrinking oil and gas sector and another A$600 million worth of asset sales as some non-oil and gas players quit the local market.
Local oil groups with low share prices and overseas assets have struck the eye of hungry foreign companies, analysts said.
"Overseas people appreciate the value of oil and gas assets, particularly in southeast Asia, but I don't think the market is fully valuing these assets through the share prices," Timothy Savage, an oil and gas analyst at Hartley Poynton, told Reuters.
The A$1.78 billion tilt by U.S. oil giant Mobil Corp for Sydney-based Ampolex Ltd in February was the largest bid made this year in the sector, while British oil producers are also showing an active interest in Australian oil firms.
Brisbane-based Crusader Ltd was taken over mid-year by Clyde Petroleum Plc of the UK, while in the past month Premier Oil Plc has made a bid for Discovery Petroleum NL and Cairn Energy Plc has made a offer for Command Petroleum Ltd.
Most of the Australian oil groups that have attracted predator attention have been producers with oil assets offshore, said Stuart Baker, an oil and gas analyst with BT Securities.
"It is no coincidence at all that the companies that have disappeared have been always companies that have endeavoured to build an overseas presence, and they have all without exception been taken over," Baker told Reuters.
However the rise in the oil price this year had not been a reason for the corporate activity, analysts said. The main oil futures contract traded in New York has risen almost 50 percent over the past five months to about US$25.50 a barrel.
"Takeovers have been a feature of this sector for years and it doesn't seem to matter if the oil price is up or down," Baker said.
Baker said oil companies making the bids have a double positive effect from the oil price rise with increased cash flow and a boost in share prices making it easier for companies to raise equity and debt.
Remaining potential targets in the local oil and gas sector were medium sized groups like Cultus Petroleum Ltd and Petroz NL which have assets in the prospective Timor Sea area.
The sector's largest listed companies, Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Santos Ltd, were unlikely bid targets, analysts said. Woodside, which accounts for nearly 50 percent of the A$12 billion sector, is controlled by Anglo-Dutch oil giant Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
Santos is seen to have a restrictive share ownership structure making it difficult for takeovers, analysts said.
Santos has also been keen on purchases, buying A$250 million worth of oil assets this year from groups quitting the sector.
Takeover activity has raised the focus on the sector, particularly in gas exploration and development, analysts said.
They said reforms in the local gas industry has opened up opportunities for gas supplies to major mines in remote areas and the set up of co-generation projects around the country.
"There is a lot of money coming over here and finding their way into all sorts of corners of the industry. So it looks like it is going to be a fairly buoyant period again, irrespective of whether we have further takeovers ahead," Baker said.
(A$1 = $0.79)
It's a Snip, bidding to become the ninth horse to win two years in succession in the 106-year history of the Pardubice steeplechase, leads a British raid to this city east of Prague on Sunday.
Last year's winner, one of a trio of British horses expected for the controversial four-and-a-quarter mile event (6.9 km), has the considerable advantage from the saddle of Richard Dunwoody, one of the world's most accomplished jump jockeys.
The Pardubice, a unique test of man and horse, includes a series of demanding obstacles and has been compared to the Grand National at Aintree, a race Dunwoody has won twice.
Race organisers have made the course easier in recent years, including modifying the daunting Taxis jump with its tough, high, wide fence and deep ditch. 
This and various other changes among the other 30 jumps followed massive protests and the embarassing 1993 outcome when only one horse managed to finish.
A total of 21 horses have died in the Pardubice over the years.
Rounding out the trio of British challengers looking to win part of the 2.5 million crown ($92,000) purse are Irish Stamp and Veleda II.
Irish Stamp, to be ridden by Norman Williamson, has a clear chance and is rated considerably higher in England than It's a Snip, although the latter's proven ability over the course will be a major factor.
Of the others, Polish-trained Scater is also expected to make a bold show.
Despite its long history, the Pardubice has only recently regained its former status.
"In the past everyone in Britain knew of the enormously difficult course but they didn't have much interest," said Nigel Miller, one of the organisers who has worked to bring the British contingent here.
"But this year, one of the biggest hits of the season is to come here for a two-day trip to one of the most historic races around."
The president of the Canadian Auto Workers held out little hope on Friday for a quick end to a 10-day-old strike against General Motors Corp and said his counterparts at the United Auto Workers are having similar problems reaching a labor pact with the automaker.
Basil "Buzz" Hargrove told reporters in a conference call that GM is trying to resist the U.S. pattern agreement set at Ford Motor Co and Chrysler Corp, which guarantee employment levels at 95 percent of the companies' current hourly workforces.  
The provision is aimed at curbing the automakers' ability to shift work to outside suppliers, known as outsourcing, which also is the major sticking point in the CAW talks.
"I'd be quite happy if Steve were to get a settlement," Hargrove said of UAW President Stephen Yokich. "He's having the same problem -- getting the pattern agreement with GM."
He said GM has "agreed to the principle of limiting the outsourcing" in the U.S.", but doesn't want to meet the 95 percent employment guarantee and wants to exclude parts plants it has on sale from the guarantee.  
Talks between the UAW and GM have been low key during the Canadian strike. Negotiators have met only during normal business hours and do not plan to meet over the weekend.
UAW spokesman Reg McGhee declined to characterize progress of the discussions, only to say bargainers were "down to the larger issues."
But Hargrove has not asked Yokich to delay a U.S. settlement with GM during the Canadian strike.
The CAW launched an escalating strike on October 3 and all the union's 26,000 GM workers were on the picket line by midnight on Wednesday.  
The UAW has about 215,000 U.S. hourly workers at GM and, so far, only about 2,000 have been idled at an engine plant and a transmission plant.
The strike may affect some of GM's U.S. plants next week, although the automaker canceled most overtime work this week.
Hargrove said he saw no progress in talks with the automaker.
"I don't want to kid anybody," he said. "It hasn't been very productive last few days, I do not believe it will be productive today."
Hargrove wanted the Canadian walkout to have as little effect on GM's U.S. production as possible so as to protect UAW workers and the profit-sharing checks they expect to receive this year. Prolonged shutdowns in the U.S. due to lack of Canadian-made parts could seriously hurt GM's profits and reduce profit sharing for employees.
A high-profile purge at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell of any managers found to bear responsibility for failing to spot irregular dealings by former fund manager Peter Young is expected next week, banking sources said on Friday.
The investment banking arm of Deutsche Bank is due to complete a preliminary report with accountants Ernst &amp; Young into what went wrong internally and led to the suspension of three Morgan Grenfell Asset Management (MGAM) funds last month and Young's dismissal for alleged "gross misconduct".
Trading in the three funds, which totalled around 1.4 billion pounds ($2.21 billion) and were held by around 90,000 retail investors, was temporarily suspended early in September but resumed after Deutsche stepped in with a 180 million pounds cash injection.
Young, who has had his assets frozen and his passport impounded, is currently under investigation by Britain's Serious Fraud Office, which probes major financial crime.
He has said he was not guilty of any criminal activity and is being made a scapegoat for failings.
A probe into his management of two of the funds in question, which held too high a proportion of unlisted, speculative stocks has been underway since problems emerged.
Both MGAM and investments watchdog the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) have undertaken their own inquiries with forensic accountants carrying out a detailed dissection of trading history of the funds.
IMRO's own investigation, which could lead to hefty punishments against the firm, will take longer to conclude.
There have been conflicting reports over what the ramifications of any sackings following the debacle would be.
As head of the asset management arm Keith Percy's position will inevitably be under review but some British newspapers have suggested key MGAM clients are opposing any action against him while others are said to be threatening to withdraw assets if he stays.
A similar quandary is reported to be exercising the minds of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell (DMG) officials in London and the Deutsche Bank hierarchy in Frankfurt.
Other key managers, including Glyn Owen, MGAM's chief European investment officer and Mike Wheatley, compliance director for the fund management business are also likely to face scrutiny because of their executive responsibilities.
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell said it could not comment on speculative newspaper reports, but the group said when problems first surfaced that it would produce a preliminary report within six weeks.
"We can't comment on any such speculation and we have always pointed out that we would announce potential management decisions after the internal investigation has been finalised," a DMG spokesman in London told Reuters.
From the beginning Deutsche has made it clear that it would take any action deemed necessary to restore confidence in its fund management business and if lapses in internal controls were found, heads would roll.
But despite difficult decisions emerging in the intervening weeks, Deutsche's resolve to give its fund management arm and by association its investment banking operation a clean bill of health, has not faltered, banking sources said.
($1=.6350 Pound)
Shares in English soccer champions Manchester United powered to record highs on Friday after the club's chief executive said the club was a likely bid target.
"Any successful company is an attractive takeover prospect. People are going to look at it, so it could well be the subject of more takeover proposals," chief executive Martin Edwards was quoted as telling The Times.
Britain's Press Association quoted Edwards as saying that any proposals would be given serious consideration.
"...If it arises, then we would have to look at it as and when. We would have a responsibility to talk. But it would have to be in the best interests of the shareholders and the supporters."
The speculation sent United shares soaring to record highs of over 5.0 pounds -- valuing the club in excess of 300 million pounds ($470 million).
The club responded to the swirl of speculation with a statement that its board was not aware of any bid approaches.
"...we have noted the recent media coverage suggesting that Manchester United have received an approach which may lead to an offer being made for the Company. The Board is not aware of any proposals," the club said.
The shares came off their highs after the statement but were still 42 1/2p firmer at 495p at around midday.
United shares have jumped from under two pounds at the end of January as the club won the coveted English league and F.A. Cup double.
The rise has also been fuelled by a lucrative new television deal signed by the Premier League with satellite broadcaster BSkyB which will virtually treble television income for top English soccer clubs..
United are reported earlier this year to have rejected a takeover bid from publishing group VCI which valued the club at 300 million pounds. VCI did a deal with United in January to buy the publishing rights to club videos and books.
The Times article named brewer Whitbread and media and leisure group Granada as potential bidders.
It reported that Edwards, who has a stake of around 17 percent in United, has said privately that it would require a bid of over 400 million pounds to buy the club.
Granada has strong ties with the Manchester area, operating the ITV commercial television franchise for north-west England. It is also known to be interested in developing a Manchester United magazine TV channel with the club.
But sources close to Granada effectively ruled out a takeover bid, saying that the company remained focused on digesting its acqusition of leading British hotel group Forte earlier this year.
Whitbread poured scorn on the suggestion.
"We would love to buy the club but there are as many beer drinkers in Liverpool, Newcastle and Chelsea," a Whitbread spokeswoman said, adding that Whitbread would not want to do anything to upset customers who were fans of other clubs. "The report is complete rubbish."
Share analysts say that the huge interest in soccer and the potential growth in revenue from pay-per-view television deals make a bid likely for United at some stage in the near future.
Pay-per-view is expected to be introduced before the end of the century following the planned launch of digital satellite television by BSkyB late next year. It could generate tens of millions of pounds for clubs like United, the best-supported team in the country. ($1=.6350 Pound)
Weak metals prices will undermine third-quarter earnings for many North American metals producers, analysts surveyed by Reuters said.
"In most cases, we'll see they're going to be down, either year over year or quarter over quarter," said Manford Mallory, analyst for Research Capital. "Metal prices are down a long way and volumes in some cases are down too. The conditions are not as good as they were a year ago."
Copper is in the doldrums after having fallen sharply since mid-June, while nickel and aluminum have slid steadily.  
Gold has been anemic, hovering around US$380 an ounce.
"It's not going to be a buoyant trend," Mallory said. "Most of them are going to be reporting profits, but there will be a few losses as well."
Earnings in the mining sector were disappointing in the first quarter and dropped off in the second quarter when the copper scandal at Japan's Sumitomo Corp sent base metals downward.
The third quarter will be even worse, said base metals analyst David Davidson with Wood Gundy. He estimated earnings would be 10 to 15 percent lower than in the second quarter.  
"The more leverage you have to copper, the bigger the loss," he said in a phone interview.
Phelps Dodge Corp led the way on Thursday when it reported third-quarter net income of US$80.2 million or US$1.22 a share, compared to US$211.8 million or US$3.03 a share a year earlier.
Most large gold companies hedge part of their production, curbing their exposure to the low gold prices of the third quarter this year, said Davidson.
"But those who haven't much in the way of hedging are certainly suffering in the market," said Mallory.  
Investors should keep their eyes on Inco Ltd, said Davidson, who predicted "the earnings are not going to be great."
"You're going to have the impact of diluted earnings with the Diamond Fields Resources purchase," he said. Inco, the western world's largest nickel producer, completed the C$4.3 billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources Ltd in August.
The takeover, along with a 10-day lockout at its Thompson, Manitoba facility and a smelter out of commission in Indonesia, will hurt earnings.
East European bourses were mostly higher this week with the Warsaw Stock Exchange leading the way, hitting a 30-month high before easing slightly on profit-taking.
Budapest, Zagreb, Bratislava, Ljubljana and Sofia also posted gains, while markets in Prague and Bucharest lost ground in listless trading.
The Central European Share Index (CESI), which measures the performance of Prague, Budapest and Warsaw blue-chip stocks, dipped 0.29 percent to 1,486.55 points.
WARSAW
Polish shares on Friday extended Thursday's falls due to profit-taking, after a four-session, 2.7-percent rise on the back of gains on western bourses.
Analysts said the market could slip below 14,800 points before picking up toward the middle of next week as firms release their September earnings reports.
"It looks like we'll have falls for a few sessions, with the first support line at 14,800 points possibly broken," said Grzegorz Pindur, an analyst at Bank Staropolski brokerage.
The main market's all-share WIG index closed at 14,920.4 points, up 244.5 points or 1.7 percent from Friday's close.
PRAGUE
The Prague Stock Exchange continued to limp through October, yet to record an advancing session, with little hope in sight for a turnaround as investors shun a market plagued by a lack of transparency.
The PX50 index closed at 542.4 on Friday, down 13.1 points, or 2.36 percent.
"I think the budget first reading passing is too weak a signal but it is definitely positive. There are still structural problems to be solved before investors get more confident in this market," said Karel Ruzicka of ING Barings.
Foreign investors have long-complained that Czech capital markets are plagued by weak securities legislation that allows for secretive transactions. An estimated 70 percent of all market activity takes place off-market.
BUDAPEST
The Budapest Stock Exchange closed the week at an all-time high, boosted by the release of some positive macroeconomic figures. On Friday the BUX index closed at 3,639.68 points, up 31.67 from last Friday's close.
"Price rises were not very significant but they may mark the beginning of a modestly bullish trend," said Robert Agoston of Daewoo Securities. "These macroeconomic data triggered price increases."
Hungary released wide range of macroeconomic data this week, including the central bank's preliminary current account, trade gap, reserve and inflation data, in addition.
BRATISLAVA
The Bratislava Stock Exchange (BSE) also suffered through another week of sluggish trading, though a jump on Friday appeared to bear out broker predictions of signs that activity was gradually reviving.
The 12-share SAX index fell through the 200 level at mid-week, but then rebounded slightly to close at 203.82 points on Friday, up from Monday's open at 200.32 points.
"We have witnessed some fresh players on our market over the past few days, and the good thing is that the ratio between foreign and domestic investor seems to be well-balanced," said Libor Briska of Creditanstalt.
BUCHAREST
Thin interest from retail investors, who dominate the bourse, drove most share prices down this week.
Two independent indices fell to year-lows at both weekly sessions as investors awaited fresh listings to the currently traded 13 stocks.
Last week, the bourse said 11 companies had applied for listing but did not say when they would join trading.
The VAB index fell 1.5 percent to 291.7 points on Thursday and the BIG index dipped 1.6 percent to 289.98 points.
SOFIA
Two corporate issues traded higher on the Bulgarian stock market this week amid low investor interest.
The 13-share Reuter All Bulgaria Stock Index (RABSI) closed at 41.28 points, up 0.26 from last Thursday due to the rise of RIF' third issue and TBS Hotels second issue.
TIRANA
Tirana's Stock Exchange this week recorded a 100 million leks transaction in 364-day treasury bills on Monday but no bonds changed hands on Thursday.
The Savings Bank sold 100 million leks worth of 364-day T-Bills to the National Commercial Bank on Monday, the first of Tirana's Stock Exchange (TSE) two weekly sessions.
The finance ministry on Thursday offered 800 million leks worth of 91-day t-bills, 400 million leks of 182-day t-bills and one billion leks in 364-day t-bills.
ZAGREB
Croatian stocks forged ahead throughout the week, ending mixed on Friday as selected hoteliers closed slightly lower after recording new highs during the week. Traders said growing supply will stabilise prices next week.
LJUBLJANA
Slovenian shares jumped 18.5 percent this week, pushing the index up 202.6 points to 1,299.70 as investors snapped up shares of newly-privatised companies. Traders said the market was likely to continue its recent bull run.
		   OCT 11    WEEK'S CHANGE    1996 HIGH   1996 LOW
		    CLOSE    pts	pct
  CESI	   1,486.55   -4.18  -0.29     1,544.70     959.24
  WARSAW	14,920.4  +244.5    +1.7    15,078.7    7,725.2
  PRAGUE	   542.4   -13.1    -2.36	582.0	425.9
  BUDAPEST     3,639.68  +31.67   +0.87    3,639.68   1,557.91
  BULGARIA	  41.28  + 0.26   +0.63	 55.48	40.61
  BRATISLAVA     203.82   +3.50   +1.75	226.34     150.4
  LJUBLJANA    1,299.70 +202.6   +18.5     1,589.18     891.93
All-time highs: WIG 20,760.3 (March 8/1994); BUX 3,639.68 (Oct 4); RABSI 112.2 (April 27/1994); PX50 1,002.4 (April 7/1994); SAX 402.3 (Feb/1994); SBI 1,598.02 (June 28/1994), CESI 3,634.80 (Oct 7/1996).
The Ministry of Mines and Energy will investigate drug kingpins' alleged involvement in Colombia's oil industry, a spokeswoman said on Thursday.
State oil company Ecopetrol and a foreign multinational said on Thursday they had awarded multimillion-dollar service contracts to a company now thought to have been headed by suspected drug trafficker Pastor Perafan. But they said the contracts, some dating back to 1991, had been put out to bidding and there were no grounds for suspicion.
In a congressional debate on Wednesday, Margarita Mena, a former minister of Mines and Energy, said the once-powerful Medellin drug cartel had tried to invest in Colombia's oil industry in the late 1980s as a way of laundering profits from international cocaine trafficking. She did not say which companies were involved.
A spokeswoman at the Ministry of Mines and Energy said on Thursday: "An investigation will be organized. The process is likely to be a long one. It will begin with the formation of a special commission."
The current Mines and Energy minister, Rodrigo Villamizar, is likely to launch the inquiry formally when he returns to address Congress on Oct. 22, the spokeswoman said.
Villamizar opened congressional debate on Wednesday on the possible renegotiation of association contracts between foreign oil companies and Ecopetrol.
Mena's remarks, made during the session, took him by surprise. Afterward he told reporters he had not been aware of drug cartel efforts to muscle in on the oil industry but said he was concerned.
Earlier this week, Cromos magazine reported on Ecopetrol's and Occidental's business ties with Inversismica, a seismic surveying company in which it said fugitive businessman Perafan was the majority shareholder.
The prosecutor's office issued an arrest warrant for Perafan at the start of this year. A spokesman at the office was unable to say on Thursday whether Perafan, who is reputedly worth more than $12 billion, was involved with Inversismica. According to a recent report in Colombia's influential news weekly Semana, Perafan's investments include an oil pipeline project in the former Soviet Union.
An Ecopetrol spokesman said the state oil company had awarded seven contracts to Inversismica since 1991, including one to carry out a seismic survey of the Coporo field, a new find on Colombia's eastern plains that may eventually rival the Cusiana and Piedmonte fields.
He was unable to specify the total value of the contracts but said they would have amounted to hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Occidental signed just one contract with Inversismica, worth $1,500,000, between May 1995 and last June.
"When we had doubts about this company and after consultation with the head of police and the chief prosecutor, we canceled the contract. We do not want relations with any company that may be linked to narcotrafficking," the multinational's spokesman said.
An industry insider said he did not think it likely that drug traffickers would have sought to launder money in the oil industry, saying that all transactions were strictly controlled by the government and Ecopetrol.
Rupert Murdoch predicted he would win his legal battle with Ted Turner and Time Warner Inc. and said his global media company, News Corp. Ltd., was on track to boost profits 20 percent this year.
In remarks published in News Corp.'s Courier Mail newspaper in Brisbane, Murdoch also was quoted as saying that he did not want to buy out Australia's other major newspaper publisher, John Fairfax Holdings Ltd.
News Corp. publishes major tabloid newspapers in Sydney and Melbourne, the Courier Mail and The Australian, also owns about 5 percent of Fairfax.
Discussing his recent feud with CNN founder Ted Turner and Time Warner, Murdoch said he was confident News Corp. would win its lawsuit against the $6.7 billion merger of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and New York-based Time Warner, which was completed on Thursday after shareholders of both companies approved the deal.
"We've got a good stoush (fight) there," Murdoch said. "We'll win through there. How or where I don't know but we'll just keep the pressure on," he said.
Turner said on Thursday that Murdoch's lawsuit to block the merger of Turner Broadcasting and Time Warner, which creates the world's biggest media company, was a "frivolous piece of junk."
Murdoch and Turner have fought a pitched battle in recent months over the merger. At issue is whether Time Warner, the United States' second-largest cable operator, will carry Murdoch's new all-news channel that will compete with CNN.
News Corp. is seeking $1 billion in damages from Time Warner and Turner, saying their decision not to carry News Corp.'s 24-hour Fox News Service showed they were stifling competition.
"They promised me very firmly we'd have 9 million subscribers and when the day came to sign the document, they weren't there," Murdoch said in the interview, referring to Time Warner's decision not to carry the new channel.
Turner was forced to apologise last week for comparing Murdoch to Adolf Hitler, while Murdoch has described CNN as liberal and his executives have said Turner was monopolistic.
Murdoch also confirmed his bullish outlook for News Corp.'s profits.
"If the American economy holds where it is and the British one does, yes certainly," a 20 percent rise in profits is attainable, he told the Courier Mail. "But it is still early days to be saying that."
News Corp. said after releasing its results in late August that a 20 percent profit rise in the year to June 30, 1997 was attainable. News earned A$1.02 billion ($790 million) net profit in fiscal 1996.
Murdoch also said he had no plans to buy out John Fairfax Holdings, which publishes broadsheet newspapers in Sydney and Melbourne and is News Corp.'s major competitor in newspaper market.
He said Australian-based rival media owner Kerry Packer was also unlikely to bid for Fairfax any time soon.
"I don't want to buy Fairfax. I don't believe Mr. (Kerry) Packer wants to buy Fairfax," he was quoted as saying.
"To my knowledge he (Packer) has three times tried to sell his shares within the last 12 months. He'd like to influence and have the power of Fairfax but he's too shrewd to be paying for Fairfax at today's price."
Canada's Conrad Black, whose Hollinger International Inc. owns 25 percent of Fairfax and who has expressed a desire to take control of the group, expressed surprise at Murdoch's comments.
"(Murdoch's statement) is fairly humorous. It's a bit rich given the fact that he never stops telling me how much he would like to own Fairfax," Black said by telephone Friday.
"I cannot obviously comment on what the others are doing or what Rupert's motives are. The fact is that he regularly expresses to me considerable hypothetical interest in Fairfax," he said.
Hollinger International owns the Chicago Sun-Times, daily and weekly publications in the United States and the Jerusalem Post.
The growth of the Internet has created the biggest creative explosion in the history of the computing world, said Sun Microsystems Inc chairman Scott McNealy on Friday.
"It is only been since we unleashed the Internet that you have suddenly seen this unleashing of technology and innovation and research and a transformation," McNealy told Reuters in an interview.
McNealy cited the launch of the Netscape Communications Corp Navigation browser and his company's Java computer language that allows users to operate across all computer operating systems as examples of recent computer innovation.
The Internet and Java is likely to pose the biggest threat to U.S. software giant Microsoft, said McNealy, who is on a 10-day visit to Australian and New Zealand along with 2,500 Sun employees, who are in Sydney attending a sales convention.
"Its two main two sources of revenue, (Microsoft) Office (software) and the desktop operating system are under threat," said McNealy, who is well known for firing salvos at Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder.
Microsoft and Sun are locked in many battles across the fiercely competitive computer industry. Microsoft has annual revenues around US$8.6 billion, while Sun has revenues of US$7.00 billion a year.
McNealy said Java users could operate in all operating systems including Windows, while the Internet and Java allowed users to download word processing applications without buying Microsoft's popular Microsoft Office software.
"The Internet has forced them (Microsoft) to change their strategies," said the 42-year-old computer millionaire.
Microsoft unveiled plans on Thursday to relaunch its online service Microsoft Network (MSN) with a US$100 million promotion push in order to double MSN's subscriber base. But McNealy said this showed another Internet strategy shift by Microsoft.
"Do you know what the Internet has done to our business? Absolutely nothing, we haven't changed our strategy one bit," said McNealy, who is on his first visit to Australia.
Java, which was developed by Sun and launched in May 1995, is a language that specialises in letting a wide range of computers share information with each other through networks.
Those capabilities are in themselves a threat to dominant players like Microsoft, whose MS-DOS and family of Windows operating systems run on nearly 90 percent of the world's PCs, industry sources said.
Sun has already licenced its Java technology to most of the world's computer industry, including Microsoft.
McNealy sees no threat from selling Sun's Java technology to its competitors. "We don't own the language, we compete by doing something better in the language. It is like trying to own the English language, you compete by what you do with the language."
Java computers, known as Network Computers, would be launched soon, which McNealy likened to the launch of the car. The Network Computer is the third wave in the evolution of the computer, McNealy said. The first was the mainframe, with the second wave being the personal computer, he said.
"We will still have buses and trains, which work on centralised systems like the mainframe. We will still have bicycles, which are like PCs, but the preferred mode of transportation for most of us is the automobile, which will be the Network Computer," McNealy said.
Virgin Atlantic Cargo said it will begin flying a new, shorter route on its Hong Kong to London service later this month which will cut an hour off the journey time and enable an extra six tonnes of freight to be carried westbound and two tonnes eastbound.
The division of Virgin Atlantic Airways says China gave permission for the short cut after recent negotiations with the British government which also benefits British Airways Plc.
Virgin's pilots are due to begin the new northerly route via Beijing and then over Russia and Germany on October 27. The southerly track currently used is over Thailand, Bangladesh, Tashkent and Turkey.
Brinkley Chan, assistant manager for Virgin Atlantic Cargo in Hong Kong told Reuters that the new routing offers significant benefits for both passengers and cargo capacity.
"It is a much welcomed boost and will mean quite a dramatic increase in the amount of cargo we are able to carry  For the passenger it will mean one hour's less flying time," Chan said.
He said Virgin's Airbus A340 aircraft will require 50,000 pounds less fuel enabling eight tonnes of cargo to be carried with a full passenger load from Hong Kong and an extra two tonnes from London.
Until now during the winter months between November and February, Virgin has been able to carry only two tonnes of belly cargo and during the summer months four tonnes from Hong Kong. Weight penalties are less east bound, it added.
Virgin says Britain's airlines will be following in the footsteps of Germany's Lufthansa which has been flying the short cut across China for the past two years. -Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017
China's decision to ban imports of some U.S. chicken meat due to concerns about a fowl plague could hit a multi-million dollar export business, although U.S. officials said on Friday their chickens do not have the disease.
"We don't have highly pathogenic avian influenza (A.I.) in the U.S.," a U.S. quarantine official told Reuters.
"There is no record of it being found in domestic poultry," he said. It had been eradicated after an outbreak in the 1980s.
"It affects the birds but not the meat, the meat does not transmit anything to people."
Washington's agriculture attache in Beijing notified his head office on Thursday that China had blocked imports of chicken meat from 10 U.S. states because of concerns about highly pathogenic avian influenza.
U.S. sources in Beijing said China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ) had confirmed the ban by telephone on Friday and was preparing notification which was expected some time next week.
"We initially heard about a ban on the import of poultry chicks, but no one at CAPQ has been able to confirm or deny that," a senior diplomatic source said.
"Now, if poultry chicks aren't banned for reasons of A.I., why is poultry meat banned? It makes no sense," he said.
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) representatives would probably meet Ministry of Agriculture officials on Tuesday in a bid to resolve the issue, an embassy source said.
Asked to confirm reports of the block on chicken imports, a quarantine official in Beijing told Reuters by telephone: "It is true." He declined to give details.
Officials of the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (Ceroils) said they had heard of the ban but also declined to give further information.
Customs officials said they were unaware of the ban.
U.S. officials in Beijing on Friday said any ban China might place on U.S. chicken meat imports because of avian influenza was not based on sound scientific evidence.
"It comes down to good science versus bad science," a senior official said on condition of anonymity.
Poultry meat was not a likely vehicle for transmission of the virus, he said, and U.S. poultry meat exports posed no threat to the international poultry industry.
The ban could have a major impact on U.S. poultry exports to China. In 1995, 330,000 tonnes worth US$445 million was trans-shipped through Hong Kong alone, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
China is the second largest market for U.S. poultry products after Russia, the council's Hong Kong director, Sarah Li, said.
"It is the only market to take paws," she said, referring to chicken feet. "People say U.S. chickens need wheelchairs because all their feet are going to China."
Thirty containers a day of chicken feet moved from Hong Kong into China, she said. Any hold-ups would cost importers dearly because of the high cost of storage in Hong Kong.
The Chinese chicken ban is the latest headache for U.S. agriculture officials in China who have been dealing with fears of importing potentially tainted products for over 20 years.
Wheat is a continuing issue, with China refusing to import grain from the U.S. Pacific northwest because it cannot be guaranteed to be free of a fungus called TCK smut.
Washington claims the fungus is harmless, that the ban is not based on good science, that it cuts annual U.S. wheat sales to China by 500,000 tonnes and is a non-tariff trade barrier.
China, on the other hand, says TCK smut could cut domestic wheat yields if it got into the domestic growing areas.
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843-6470
China's propaganda tsars have axed all the novels and two films of controversial writer Wang Shuo, among the earliest victims of a crusade to resurrect communist puritanism.
The state-owned Hua Yi publishing house decided recently to stop publishing a four-volume collection of Wang's 30-odd novels after coming under fire from the Propaganda Department of the ruling Communist Party, the author said on Friday.
"Someone reported me to the Propaganda Department. They said my works were reactionary...and ridiculed politics," Wang told Reuters by telephone.
"They said the taste and the language were vulgar...I do not deny this," said Wang, the author of colloquial novels that depict the underbelly of society in Chinese cities and are peppered with strong language and sex.
Propaganda tsars forced Hua Yi to write a self-criticism for publishing such politically incorrect books, Wang said.
"Hua Yi dared not continue publishing my books...No other publication house will dare to publish them," he said.
"The decision is very regrettable...I hope this is temporary...Not all my books have problems. I hope they will allow publication of some of them."
The publishing house and the Propaganda Department could not be reached for comment.
Hua Yi has published about 200,000 copies of the "Collected Works of Wang Shuo" since 1992. Wang earns more than 100,000 yuan ($12,000) a year from reprints of his works, about 20 times the average urban salary.
"Reprints each year are my major source of income. It will have a big impact on me," Wang said of the ban.
The publisher has not been required to recall Wang's books, but military-owned bookstores have been banned from selling them.
Pirated copies of Wang's works, such as "I'm Your Father" and "Life Fast, Die Happy", have reportedly now appeared.
Wang is the most prominent victim so far of the Communist Party's crusade to resurrect what it calls spiritual civilisation, communist jargon for toeing the party line that has been eroded by nearly two decades of economic reforms.
The Communist Party elite ended a four-day, annual closed-door plenum in Beijing on Thursday with a pledge to "use outstanding works that inspire people to cultivate citizens of a socialist (society) with ideals, morals, culture and discipline".
Chinese film censors have been dragging their feet on giving approval to the public showing of the movie "Dad", said Wang, who directed and wrote the script for the film and wrote the extremely popular television series "Stories from the Newsroom".
"Basically, it's done for," Wang said of his movie, which was completed late last year. A private film company spent 3.3 million yuan ($398,000) on the film.
Shooting of "Relations between Man and Woman" was halted in April because the movie had "mistakes and too much description of sex", said Wang, who wrote the script.
The spiritual civilisation campaign has left Chinese filmmakers at a loss and the number of movies shot so far this year has plunged to about 30 compared with an annual average of 160 in the past, a Chinese source said.
Eight movies shot by the state-owned Beijing Film Studio had met the same fate as Wang's films, the source said.
"People don't know what kind of movies can be approved," said the source who asked not to be identified.
Asked if he was repentant, Wang said: "I only have two roads to take. The first is to change my style and write things the government can tolerate and encourage. The second is to do nothing.
"It's very hard to write things the government likes...I will need two to three years to adjust," he said.
The family of detained Chinese dissident Wang Dan have found a lawyer willing to defend the leader of 1989 student protests in Beijing's Tiananmen Square at an expected trial, a close relative said on Friday.
Chinese court officials on Thursday informed Wang's mother, Wang Lingyun, she had one day to find him a lawyer, a signal that the dissident had been indicted and a trial was imminent.
"We've already found one," a family member said when asked if a lawyer had been hired.
The lawyer had visited the court dealing with Wang's case to begin legal formalities, but there was still no news of when the trial of the former student leader, who has been in detention since May 1995, would begin, the relative said by telephone.
"The next thing is for the lawyer to join in the law case, to understand the testimony and to understand the evidence," he said, adding it was not clear when the lawyer would be permitted to meet Wang.
Wang Lingyun said on Thursday that officials of the Beijing People's Intermediate Court had declined to say if the dissident had been indicted, but Chinese legal experts said lawyers are unnecessary in China unless a suspect has been charged.
Wang's relative said the family was concerned about the situation of the 26-year-old dissident, who has been lost in a security limbo since his detention more than 16 months ago.
"We feel pretty anxious. We are just waiting for new developments," he said.
Chinese sources have said Wang faces a sentence of up to seven years in prison if convicted of counter-revolutionary incitement, or subversion.
The outspoken activist attracted the ire of China's communist authorities in 1989 when he shot to prominence as a leader of student protests for more democracy centred on Tiananmen Square in the heart of the Chinese capital.
The demonstrations were crushed by the army on June 3-4 with heavy loss of life and Wang, a Beijing University student, served four years in jail for his role.
Wang appears likely to be the next victim of a rash of convictions and detentions of members of China's tiny and struggling pro-democracy movement.
On Tuesday, prominent dissident Liu Xiaobo was ordered to serve three years in a labour camp after he joined veteran activist Wang Xizhe in calling for the impeachment and dismissal of Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin.
Wang Xizhe's whereabouts are unknown.
Hopes that the award of the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize to jailed veteran dissident Wei Jingsheng could revitalise the faltering democracy movement were dashed on Friday when the prize went to campaigners for the former Portuguese territory of East Timor.
Beijing has long dismissed appeals from foreign countries and human rights campaigners for softer treatment of dissidents as interference in China's internal affairs.
Wang Dan had been expected to face new charges since last December, when the court that convicted Wei Jingsheng of plotting to overthrow the government also implicated Wang.
The court's verdict said Wei, who was jailed for 14 years, had links with people "convicted of counter-revolutionary crimes, including Wang Dan". It also referred to a tape-recorded conversation between Wang and Wei, but gave no details.
Wang had been active since his release from jail, defying persistent police surveillance and harassment to join in a daring appeal to Communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
Norwegian engineer Kvaerner ASA has set its sights on increasing its Asia Pacific portfolio in coming years where burgeoning economies are taking on more sophisticated technology, a senior official said on Friday.
"Our turnover would be up by about 10 percent in 1997, and 50 percent (of the increase would be) generated by Asia," said John Fletcher, chairman and managing director of Kvaerner Corporate Development, the group's corporate development arm.
Total turnover in 1996 would hit US$10 billion, of which 35 percent would be generated from Asia, Fletcher said in an interview. Asia made up less than 10 percent of the company's annual turnover in the early 1990's, he added.
Kvaerner's half-year results in August showed a sharp 56 percent fall in pre-tax profit to 706 million crowns on turnover of 22.94 billion crowns.
Kvaerner, Norway's second largest listed company and an employer to 60,000 worldwide, took over British conglomerate Trafalgar House in April and moved promptly to integrate Trafalgar's engineering and construction units.
Its new organisation framework revolves around six core areas of shipbuilding, process engineering, oil and gas engineering, construction, metals and pulping.
Fletcher said Kvaerner's business was currently very strong in India, Indonesia, Thailand and China.
Kvaerner's involvement in China goes back 40 years and partook in developing the country's steel industry over the decades, Fletcher said.
On hand now are over 30 projects in China -- spanning industrial hardware, power generation, and steel for mostly joint venture companies led by international shareholders -- worth some US$500 million, and the amount was set to increase to US$750 million in 12 months' time, he said.
The company is eyeing a tender expected to open by end 1997 to build hydro-turbine engines for the giant Three Gorges dam project, which would be awarded at the end of 1997.
"Kvaerner is involved in a (proposed) consortium on the Three Gorges project whereby the first set of turbines would be manufactured by Kvaerner and the second set would have local manufacturers involved," Stephanie Chick, business development manager said at the interview.
Fletcher dismissed China's ongoing austerity measures and credit clampdown as "cyclical" and believed the country was now poised to move to some "good years".
The company also has about 30 orders on hand in Indonesia and is involved in building a US$450 million, 120,000 tonne per year facility in Thailand to produce refined copper wire that is scheduled to come on stream in 1998, Fletcher said.
-- HONG KONG NEWSROOM (852) 28436441
Virgin Atlantic Airways said it is considering replacing its Airbus Industrie A340 aircraft with higher capacity Boeing Co 747-400s because of high demand between Hong Kong and London.
But aircraft availability and scheduling preclude an immediate change, David Woodward, general manager commercial for the Virgin Atlantic Cargo division said in a statement.
"The Hong Kong service has been highly successful, in fact we have suffered too little capacity. There is a possibility though of the aircraft change happening in the near future," he added.
Another senior Virgin executive said earlier this year that the carrier was hoping to increase its daily flights from Hong Kong to London to 10 a week.
He also said Virgin has plans to start a London to Shanghai service.
Industry observers say lack of slots at the territory's overcrowded airport is thought to be a big stumbling block and larger aircraft would be a short-term solution until Hong Kong's new airport opens.
Virgin's assistant manager in Hong Kong, Brinkley Chan said there has been no progress on a proposal to add a freighter to its fleet because of low market rates between Hong Kong and Europe and low yields.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017
In yet another sign that utilities are branching out far beyond their traditional markets, PacifiCorp and Protection One Inc. on Friday announced a marketing alliance aimed at boosting customer loyalty in an increasingly competitive industry.
Under the venture, customers of PacifiCorp subsidiaries Pacific Power and Utah Power will be offered a security system from regional alarm company Protection One.
The unusual alliance is viewed as the first of many creative ventures in an uncertain era of utility deregulation.
"This is the start of what is going to happen all over the place. It's a whole new business that will coattail on the aggressive nature utilities are starting to take. One-stop shopping is becoming key from a marketing position," said Ron Chebra, manager of utilities and energy industries at AT&amp;T Solutions.
Utilities are becoming increasingly attracted to security companies as they prepare to enter new markets that previously had been off-limits due to federal regulations. In recent months, utilities have bought security firms or made large investments in them.
"We're looking for new products and services that we can bring to our customer base as a way to build loyalty and ultimately build preference with our residential customers," said Rene Carroll, consumer products manager at PacifCorp.
"We've been looking at different ways of entering the home security business for over a year," she added.
The alliance will give Protection One instant access to the 1.4 million customers served by the PacifiCorp subsidiaries and extends its reach to Utah. Previously, the regional security firm served six western states.
At a recent conference on mergers in the security industry, Protection One officials declined to discuss potential revenue from the alliance, but noted that capturing even 5 percent of PacifiCorp customers would be significant.
Customers accepting the offer will receive free installation of a home security system with the purchase of a two-year agreement for monitoring services.
The security system's alarm panel also will hold thermostat and lighting controls and remote access.
The alliance is expected to be just the first step for Protection One, which is trying to take advantage of new opportunities that are emerging from deregulation of the utilities and telecommunications industries.
"We think this is the first of quite a few announcements we'll be making in the next 12 months or so," Protection One Chief Financial Officer John Hesse told Reuters at the recent security conference.
The alliance re-establishes a link between the two companies that was dissolved several years ago. Protection One began as a subsidiary of PacifiCorp in 1988, but the alarm company split off in a management buyout three years later. Protection One then became a publicly-traded alarm company in 1994.
Ford Motor Co. said Friday it will pay $40 million for the right to put its name on the future home for the National Football League's Detroit Lions, a new domed stadium to be built in downtown Detroit.
Ford, which has not yet chosen a formal name for the facility, will pay the fee over several years to Detroit's newly created stadium authority, which is developing the $225 million, 70,000-seat stadium for the Lions, other athletic and entertainment events and conventions.
The facility is expected to be built on the edge of downtown Detroit, adjacent to a new, $240 million, open air ballpark for the Detroit Tigers baseball team.
The deal follows a growing trend for major sports facilities to sell naming rights to corporations for millions of dollars.
"The value of having your company's name associated with a high-profile athletic facility is extraordinary," said Ford Chairman Alex Trotman.
The deal leaves stadium backers about $10 million short of their fund-raising goals for the project. They face a Nov. 1 deadline to secure land purchases and raise $50 million in private and corporate contributions.
"I believe we will able to meet those conditions before Nov. 1," Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer told a news conference.
Detroit area voters will be asked on Nov. 5 to approve new taxes on hotel rooms and car rentals to help finance the project through an $80 million bond issue.
William Clay Ford Jr., a member of Ford's board of directors who is an owner of the Lions, said both he and his father, William Clay Ford, did not participate in any board discussions on the deal.
"It was truly an arm's length deal," said the younger Ford, who is leading the stadium project.
Ford, 39, said the Lions and the stadium authority did not expect to get much of the remaining $10 million in funding from General Motors Corp. and Chrysler Corp. Instead, they will seek funds from other companies, including automotive parts suppliers.
Ford also said if the referrendum passes, the Lions will begin discussions with the city of Pontiac, Mich., for an early termination of the team's lease on the Pontiac Silverdome, which expires in 2004.
The Silverdome, opened in 1975, would be the youngest U.S. major league sports facility to be replaced with a new venue.
Wall Street hammered shares of Swedish-American drug giant Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn Friday after it said profits would fall far short of expectations.
The company said it expects earnings of about 44 cents a share for the third quarter, equal to year-ago results. Analysts had expected 10 cents more than that and hit the stock hard after the announcement.
The stock dropped as much as $6.50 before trading down $5.25 at $34.875 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 18 million shares had changed hands by early afternoon.
The company blamed foreign exchange problems, pricing pressures and weak U.S. sales of older products for the shortfall. It also cited a sales force transition and "the usual short-term disruptions seen in a multinational merger."
Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn was formed by the merger of Sweden's Pharmacia AB and Kalamazoo, Mich.-based Upjohn Co. It formally began operations in November 1995.
"This clearly indicates that the merger is not going as smoothly as hoped. I think this is a wake-up call," said independent pharmaceuticals industry analyst Hemant Shah.
With few new high-margin products expected out of the pipeline for the next year or so, Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn had been hoping that the merger would produce cost savings and other synergies that would help it through the dry spell.
"The problem is, they're not realising synergies as they thought they would," said Mehta &amp; Isaly analyst Steve Lisi.
"They were hoping that through this merger they would realise synergies to ride this out ... We just don't know if they can do it," Lisi said. "They'll get through these next couple of years, but it's going to be ugly."
Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn Chief Executive John Zabriskie said the merger is producing benefits, including a 3,000 person reduction in the work force to date. The company also said it continues to expect $500 million in cost savings by 1998.
Earnings for the fourth quarter and full year are expected to top year-ago levels, buoyed by two new drugs, Xalatan for glaucoma and Camptosar for cancer, the company said.
But analysts were uncertain about the near-term outlook and said the company offers no firm guidance for next year.
"There's a cloud over the beginning of 1997," said Rodman &amp; Renshaw analyst Mario Corso.
AT&amp;T Corp. Chairman Robert Allen is likely step down early to help attract a talented enough successor to take the helm of the nation's largest long-distance company, sources close to AT&amp;T said Friday.
They said the person chosen to succeed Alex Mandl, who resigned as AT&amp;T president and chief operating officer in August to head a small wireless communications company, would expect to be able to succeed Allen, 61, well before the four years still to run on his contract.
"I think it is fair to assume that," said one source, who declined to be identified.
AT&amp;T would not comment on the search for Mandl's successor and whether the candidate would succeed Allen, who is also chief executive officer.
"The search by the board is a private matter and we won't comment beyond that," said AT&amp;T spokesman Jim Byrnes.
Analysts said one possibility was that Allen would split off the role of chief executive to the new president in a year or so but retain his chairmanship until retirement.
"I expect the (AT&amp;T) system would allow and wish Allen to stay on in a senior official position for some time," said Mark Bruneau at COBA MID, a consulting firm.
An ambitious candidate would want to make an early impact on the strategic direction of AT&amp;T, one source said, noting that the fast-changing telecommunications market may be barely recognisable in four years.
The sources declined to comment on possible candidates, but some names already mentioned in the news media seem to have ruled themselves out.
"There is probably more speculation out there than truth in the media at this juncture" on the candidates, one source said.
Two candidates mentioned by the New York Times on Friday ruled themselves out. William Esrey, chairman of long-distance company Sprint Corp., said through a spokesman he was unaware of being a candidate for the AT&amp;T job.
"His contract with Sprint precludes working with competitors for several years after he leaves the company," the spokesman said.
Similarly, Hughes Electronics Corp. said its president, Michael Armstrong, was unaware of being an AT&amp;T candidate.
The Wall Street Journal reported that Eastman Kodak Co. Chairman George Fisher and former AT&amp;T director James Barksdale, now chairman of Netscape Communications Corp., also ruled themselves out.
The AT&amp;T board meets Wednesday, a day before the company reports third-quarter earnings, and may discuss the issue then.
Allen, a 40-year AT&amp;T career veteran, would be reluctant to depart early but said in a recent press interview that he would consider doing so if a perfect candidate came along.
Expectations of an early departure by Allen were fanned by AT&amp;T's warning in September when it said earnings per share for the third quarter may be 10 percent below analysts' expectations.
The warning crowned a rough year for AT&amp;T, which incurred the wrath of politicians, the media and the public for announcing 40,000 job cuts in January. Meanwhile, the rise in the stock price that job cuts often produce has not materialised, so Wall Street and investors are not happy either.
AT&amp;T's split into three parts is proceeding as planned, leaving the company to concentrate on its core long-distance telecommunications business, where competition is heating up.
While the Dow Jones industrial average is up nearly 17 percent so far this year, AT&amp;T shares -- adjusted for the company's breakup -- are off 16 percent.
AT&amp;T has hired executive search groups Korn Ferry and Spencer Stuart to seek an outside candidate. Officials at both firms declined to comment.
The engines have been started in the race to succeed Alex Trotman for the top office at Ford Motor Co.
The company Thursday promoted two long-time Ford executives into positions that will allow them to prove if they are worthy of occupying one or more top spots at Detroit's No. 2 automaker.
Edward Hagenlocker, 56, was promoted to vice chairman from executive vice president, and put in charge of a new auto components organisation with 75,000 employees and revenues of $14 billion.
Jacques Nasser, 48, previously the group vice president in charge of product development, was named to Hagenlocker's old job of heading up Ford Automotive Operations, the company's core car and truck business.
Speculation has swirled for months about how Ford's board of directors plans to handle the succession of Trotman, who currenly holds the titles of chairman, chief executive officer and president. Trotman reaches the mandatory retirement age of 65 in July of 1998, but the board can ask him to stay on.
Complicating matters is the prospect of a Ford family member returning to a top officer's role for the first time since 1980.
Recent reports have said William Clay Ford Jr., 39, a great-grandson of company founder Henry Ford, could be named a non-executive chairman, or chairman, when Trotman leaves.
Because Hagenlocker's nearly three-year tenure at Ford Automotive Operations has been marred by slumping profits and a slow start for the redesigned Taurus, some outsiders have said his chances for higher office have dimmed.
But Hagenlocker, a reserved man who joined the company in 1964 as a research scientist, has also overseen the launch of the hugely successful new F-Series pickup trucks, as well as the new Ford Expedition full-size sport utility, which is expected to be both popular and profitable.
Eugene Jennings, a retired professor of management at Michigan State University, said Hagenlocker's being put in charge of the new parts organisation could turn into a high-profile spot that should not be read as a demotion.
"It's the one thing that Hagenlocker needs under his belt to give him the experience he needs to run the company," said Jennings, a long-time Big Three observer.
Nasser has been at Ford nearly as long as Hagenlocker. Born in Lebanon but raised in Australia, Nasser first joined the company in 1968 as a financial analyst. He rose through several international assignments, earning a reputation as a "no-nonsense petrol head."
While Hagenlocker is stiff in front of the media, Nasser moves easily among reporters, entertaining them with colourful stories about cricket and his globe-trotting life abroad.
Wesley Brown, of industry consultant CSM Forecasting in Farmington Hills, Mich., said Nasser's new role also offers him a chance to further demonstrate his abilities at running the company.
"It clearly puts Nasser in a position to take over from Trotman when he retires," said Brown.
For his part, Trotman was circumspect about the succession question. At a news briefing Thursday, he was asked if the board is actively working on the issue.
Trotman responded, "Absolutely. In depth, and frequently -- and has been for the last 20 or 30 years."
Merger synergies that were supposed to carry Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn Inc through a dry spell in its new product pipeline are not being realized as planned, raising questions about the drug giant's short-term future.
Shares in the barely one-year-old Swedish-American concern fell 6-1/2 to 34-7/8 on Friday after it said its third-quarter profits would be well below Wall Street estimates.
"This clearly indicates that the merger is not going as smoothly as hoped. I think this is a wake-up call for the company," said independent drug industry analyst Hemant Shah.  
Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn, formed through the merger of Sweden's Pharmacia AB and Kalamazoo, Mich.-based Upjohn Co, formally began operations in November, 1995.
"There's a cloud over the beginning of 1997. There's no earnings guidance," said Rodman &amp; Renshaw analyst Mario Corso.
In a conference call on Friday, the company said the merger is on track and cost savings of $500 million by 1998 are still projected. It said the merger has reduced the work force by 3,000 people to date. But the company earlier blamed "the usual short-term disruptions seen in a multinational merger" in part for its third-quarter earnings disappointment.  
"The problem is they're not realizing synergies as they thought they would," said Mehta &amp; Isaly analyst Steve Lisi.
Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn blamed the third-quarter earnings shortfall chiefly on currency translations. It said foreign exchange -- especially involving the Japanese yen, Italian lira and Swedish krona -- reduced quarterly sales by two percent and increased the cost of goods sold.
Limits to the company's currency hedging activities were blamed by the company for the foreign exchange hit. These inadequacies, coupled with an ongoing sales force transition, can be traced to the merger, analysts said.  
Merger programs are progressing, but the combination may never realize the synergies hoped for, Corso said.
That could compound another problem. Several of Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn's top drugs face competition from generic equivalents and few new products are in the pipeline, analysts said.
Xalatan for glaucoma and Camptosar for cancer are rolling out and could give the fourth quarter a boost. The company said it expects earnings for the fourth quarter and the full year to exceed year-ago levels. It also said it anticipates profit margin improvement through 1997.
But analysts were uncertain about the near-term outlook. They said the company offered no specific guidance on the conference call for 1997 earnings levels.
"They were hoping that through this merger they would realize synergies to ride this out ... We just don't know if they can do it," Lisi said. "They'll get through these next couple of years, but it's going to be ugly."
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
In yet another sign that U.S. utilities are branching out far beyond their traditional markets, PacifiCorp and Protection One Inc on Friday announced a marketing alliance aimed at boosting customer loyalty in an increasingly competitive industry.
Under the venture, customers of PacifiCorp subsidiaries Pacific Power and Utah Power will be offered a security system from regional alarm company Protection One.
The unusual alliance is viewed as the first of many creative ventures in an uncertain era of deregulation.  
"This is the start of what is going to happen all over the place.  It's a whole new business that will coattail on the aggressive nature utilities are starting to take.  One-stop shopping is becoming key from a marketing position," said Ron Chebra, manager of utilities and energy industries at AT&amp;T Solutions.
Utilities are becoming increasingly attracted to security companies as they prepare to enter new markets that previously had been off-limits due to federal regulations.  In recent months, utilities have bought security firms or made large investments in them.  
"We're looking for new products and services that we can bring to our customer base as a way to build loyalty and ultimately build preference with our residential customers," said Rene Carroll, consumer products manager at PacifCorp.
"We've been looking at different ways of entering the home security business for over a year," she added.
The alliance will give Protection One instant access to the 1.4 million customers served by the PacifiCorp subsidiaries and extend its reach to Utah.  Previously, the regional security firm served six western states.  
At a recent conference on mergers in the security industry, Protection One officials declined to discuss potential revenue from the alliance but noted that capturing even five percent of PacifiCorp customers would be significant.  Customers accepting the offer will receive free installation of a home security system with the purchase of a two-year agreement for monitoring services.
The security system's alarm panel also will hold thermostat and lighting controls and remote access.
The alliance is expected to be just the first step for Protection One, which is trying to take advantage of new opportunities that are emerging from deregulation of the utilities and telecommunications industries.  "We think this is the first of quite a few announcements we'll be making in the next 12 months or so," Protection One chief financial officer John Hesse told Reuters at the security conference.
The alliance re-establishes a link between the two companies that was dissolved several years ago.  Protection One began as a subsidiary of PacifiCorp in 1988, but the alarm company split off in a management buyout three years later. Protection One then became a publicly-traded alarm company in 1994.
Construction group Bouygues has emerged as the latest contender in the French telecommunications arena with its joint bid with Italy's STET to run the telephone network of rail operator SNCF
Bouygues follows the larger Cie Generale des Eaux, which last month announced blue chip partners for its Cegetel telecoms unit, and the state-owned RATP Paris Metro operator which set up a unit to exploit its 300 kilometres of track.
The stock market cheered Bouygues' alliance with STET and marked its shares up 4.62 percent to 510 francs on Friday.
The new entrants are seizing on the opportunity presented by the breakup of France Telecom's domestic monopoly from the start of 1998, under European Union competition rules.
Although both Bouygues and Generale des Eaux currently run mobile telephone businesses, their ambitions run higher. They want a major slice of the profitable long-distance call market and the high-value business networks.
Generale des Eaux chairman Jean-Marie Messier wooed analysts recently with bullish growth forecasts for the telecoms sector and said he expected Cegetel to contribute 15 percent of group sales and 25 percent of cashflow by 2003.
Which leaves Lyonnaise des Eaux of the three French major utilities and services company firmly wedded to pursuing communications rather than telecommunications.
"Our strategy is communications, not telecommunications," said a Lyonnaise executive.
Analyst Annick Santer at broker Ferri said, "Communications is not at all in the same league as telecommunications. It does not have the same scope but it can be profitable."
Communications, if it offers less spectacular potential, also holds less scope for risk, she added.
The group's communications interests, grouped around its Lyonnaise Communications unit and M6 television stake, had 1995 sales of 1.4 billion francs and contributed 69 million in net profit.
The profit came from its 34 percent stake in the Metropole Television M6 unit, which reported a first half net profit of 215 million francs, up 2.3 percent from a year ago.
But Lyonnaise Communications, which runs its cable television operations, made a 1995 loss of 45 million francs.
The cable business, with 400,000 subscribers, is close to breaking even this year and depends on getting a few thousand more customers, a source close to the company said.
Lyonnaise owns 70 percent of Lyonnaise Communications, with France Telecom holding 17 and US West with six percent.
Lyonnaise executives declined to give sales or cashflow forecasts for its communications business but said most of the investment had already been made and it was adding services to the existing infrastructure.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452 pnt/cct
The engines have been started in the race to succeed Alex Trotman for the top office at Ford Motor Co.
The company Thursday promoted two long-time Ford executives into positions that will allow them to prove if they are worthy of occupying one or more top spots at Detroit's No. 2 automaker.
Edward Hagenlocker, 56, was promoted to vice chairman from executive vice president, and put in charge of a new auto components organisation with 75,000 employees and revenues of $14 billion.
Jacques Nasser, 48, previously the group vice president in charge of product development, was named to Hagenlocker's old job of heading up Ford Automotive Operations, the company's core car and truck business.
Speculation has swirled for months about how Ford's board of directors plans to handle the succession of Trotman, who currenly holds the titles of chairman, chief executive officer and president. Trotman reaches the mandatory retirement age of 65 in July of 1998, but the board can ask him to stay on.
Complicating matters is the prospect of a Ford family member returning to a top officer's role for the first time since 1980.
Recent reports have said William Clay Ford Jr., 39, a great-grandson of company founder Henry Ford, could be named a non-executive chairman, or chairman, when Trotman leaves.
Because Hagenlocker's nearly three-year tenure at Ford Automotive Operations has been marred by slumping profits and a slow start for the redesigned Taurus, some outsiders have said his chances for higher office have dimmed.
But Hagenlocker, a reserved man who joined the company in 1964 as a research scientist, has also overseen the launch of the hugely successful new F-Serieswell as the new Ford Expedition full-size sport utility, which is expected to be both popular and profitable.
Eugene Jennings, a retired professor of management at Michigan State University, said Hagenlocker's being put in charge of the new parts organisation could turn into a high-profile spot that should not btion.
"It's the one thing that Hagenlocker needs under his belt to give him the experience he needs to run the company," said Jennings, a long-time Big Three observer.
Nasser has been at Ford nearly as long as Hagenlocker. Born in Lebanon but raised in Australia, Nasser first joined the company in 1968 as a financial analyst. He rose through several international assignments, earning a reputation as a "no-nonsense petrol head."
While Hagenlocker is stiff in front of the media, Nasser moves easily among reporters, entertaining them with colourful stories about cricket and his globe-trotting life abroad.
Wesley Brown, of industry consultant CSM Forecasting in Farmingtills, Mich., said Nasser's new role also offers him a chance to further demonstrate his abilities at running the company.
"It clearly puts Nasser in a position to take over from Trotman when he retires," said Brown.
For his part, Trotman was circumspect about the succession question. At a news briefing Thursday, he was asked if the board is actively working on the issue.
Trotman responded, "Absolutely. In depth, and frequently -- and has been for the last 20 or 30 years."
Cascade Communications Corp's earnings for the third quarter ended September blew past the published analysts' consensus estimate by a solid $0.02 a share, but fell shy of Wall Street expectations nonetheless.
Despite year-on-year quarterly earnings growth of roughly 200 percent, investors dumped the stock in after-hours trading on Thursday evening, sending the stock down 6-1/2 to 80, traders said. Cascade reported $0.21 versus $0.07 a year ago.
Securities analysts said the disappointment lay in comparing Casade's sequential quarterly earnings growth.
"The issue was that it was trading at 60 times over the 1997 earnings forecast," said Hambrecht network equipment analyst Joe Noel, who holds a strong buy on the stock.
"They really needed $0.04 per share on the upside to maintain that price on the upside in my opinion," he said.
Investors were betting Cascade could once again blow past analysts earnings estimates on the same scale it had done in the second quarter ended in June, the analyst said.
In the June quarter, Cascade reported earnings that were 43.5 percent greater than seen in the first quarter of 1996.
"The second quarter had a big revenues spike and the third quarter was expected to be up on a similar basis sequentially," Noel said.
By contrast, the most recent third quarter showed sequential growth of only 17 percent versus the strong second quarter. Cascade had reported above 20 percent sequential growth in quarterly earnings for every period since June 1995.
There was nothing in the report or the conference call that followed which suggested problems in the company's business fundamentals, several analysts stressed.
Noel said he expected the sell-off to continue to play out on Friday morning, but for bargain-hunters to then snatch up the stock, as it remains one of the strongest plays in its sector.
In a phone interview after a conference call with analysts, Cascade chief executive Daniel Smith said he could point to nothing in the company's third quarter experience that would explain the sell-off in the company's stock.
To demonstrate it health, Smith pointed to how the company had derived between 10 and 15 percent of its overall revenues from Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) products, an entirely new line of business introduced only early this year.
In addition, Smith said Cascade's strategic alliance with International Business Machines Corp was performing according to plan.
"We are pleased with the progress we are making and our plans are on track with IBM," he said.
Noel said the principal hazard for an investor in a telecommunmications equipment supplier like Cascade was the lumpiness of earnings from quarter to quarter.
He noted that Cascade's small number of telephone company customers thought in terms of year-long buying cycles, causing Cascade shipment volumes to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and leaving it exposed if even one customer delays a purchase.
In its earnings report, Cascade said its revenues for the third quarter increased 162 percent to $94.2 million from $36.0 million recorded for the same period in 1995.
Net income for the quarter increased to $20.3 million, or $0.21 per share, compared with net income of $6.8 million, or $0.07 per share, for the same period in 1995. Analysts had expected $0.19 per share in the most recent quarter.
-- New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
China's decision to ban imports of some U.S. chicken meat due to concerns about a fowl plague could hit a multi-million dollar export business, although U.S. officials said Friday American chickens do not have the disease.
"We don't have highly pathogenic avian influenza (A.I.) in the U.S.," a U.S. quarantine official told Reuters. "There is no record of it being found in domestic poultry," he said, adding that the disease had been eradicated after an outbreak in the 1980s.
"It affects the birds but not the meat. The meat does not transmit anything to people," the official said.
Washington's agriculture attache in Beijing notified his head office on Thursday that China had blocked imports of chicken meat from 10 U.S. states because of concerns about highly pathogenic avian influenza.
U.S. sources in Beijing said China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine, or CAPQ, had confirmed the ban by telephone on Friday and was preparing notification, which was expected some time next week.
"We initially heard about a ban on the import of poultry chicks, but no one at CAPQ has been able to confirm or deny that," a senior diplomatic source said.
"Now, if poultry chicks aren't banned for reasons of A.I., why is poultry meat banned? It makes no sense," he said.
Asked to confirm reports of the block on chicken imports, a quarantine official in Beijing told Reuters by telephone: "It is true." He declined to give details.
However, Customs officials said they were unaware of the ban.
U.S. officials in Beijing said any ban China might place on U.S. chicken meat imports because of avian influenza was not based on sound scientific evidence. "It comes down to good science versus bad science," one senior official said.
The ban could have a major impact on U.S. poultry exports to China. In 1995, 330,000 metric tons worth $445 million was trans-shipped through Hong Kong alone, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council. China is the second-largest market for U.S. poultry products after Russia, the council's Hong Kong director, Sarah Li, said.
"It is the only market to take paws," she said, referring to chicken feet. "People say U.S. chickens need wheelchairs because all their feet are going to China."
The Chinese chicken ban is the latest headache for U.S. agriculture officials in China. Wheat is a continuing issue, with China refusing to import grain from the Pacific northwest because it cannot be guaranteed to be free of a fungus called TCK smut.
Washington claims the fungus is harmless, that the ban is not based on good science, that it cuts annual U.S. wheat sales to China by 500,000 tons and is a non-tariff trade barrier. China, on the other hand, says TCK smut could cut domestic wheat yields if it got into the domestic growing areas.
Canada's big six banks, which have long ruled the country's street corners with their vast branch networks, face a challenge to their dominance by the Internet and the rise of new "virtual banks."
Telephone and computer banking, debit cards and automated teller machines (ATMs) are rapidly transforming Canada's old-style bricks-and-mortar banking system.
New technology has eliminated the need for costly branch networks and lured offshore rivals to jump into Canada's $66.5 billion consumer banking market.
"Virtual banks have the potential to send our branch networks the way of the passenger train -- much loved, but seldom used," said Bank of Montreal chairman Matthew Barrett in a speech to Toronto's business community.
BIG BANKS PREPARE TO MEET THE CHALLENGE
The big banks, which dominate regular banking, trust and brokerages in Canada, are marshalling their forces against this cyber-onslaught.
Royal Bank of Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Bank of Montreal, Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto-Dominion Bank and National Bank of Canada are spending millions of dollars to develop new distribution channels and upgrade branches.
ING Groep N.V., with nearly $260 billion in assets, is by far the biggest electronic challenger. The Dutch financial services giant dwarfs Royal Bank, the country's biggest financial institution with assets of $147 billion.
ING, already a player in Canada's insurance market, plans to offer a wide range of electronic banking services through a new subsidiary, ING Trust Co. of Canada, based in Toronto.
ING is keeping a low profile until its application for a trust licence is approved, but bank officials are confident of success where others have failed.
In recent years, several foreign banks abandoned Canada because of its restrictive banking laws and stiffer than expected competition from the big domestic banks.
"It would be fair to say that we will be competing on several fronts. It won't be hard to offer better service," said Jim Kelly, vice-president of marketing for ING's Canadian operations.
ING WILL DRAW ON ITS EUROPEAN EXPERIENCE
He said ING will draw on its extensive experience in electronic banking in Europe.
Analysts have said ING can use Canada to fine tune its virtual bank before offering similar services in the larger U.S. market. But Kelly said there are no plans yet to take ING's virtual bank south of the border.
"To say we're definitely going to the U.S. would be wrong. To say that we would look at it and see if there is a market opportunity, yes, of course we would," he said.
Also eyeing Canada's consumer banking market is Citibank Canada, a unit of U.S. giant Citicorp, which is joining with Canadian fund manager AGF Management Ltd., to create a virtual trust company.
The venture is Citibank's second foray into Canadian consumer banking after abandoning a bid to establish a traditional branch system in the 1980s.
Charles Stuart, country manager of Citibank's consumer banking operations in Canada, said the joint venture gives the bank access to AGF's customer base. Citibank plans to offer customers a full-service banking package, including credit cards, access to ATM service and telephone banking.
"We're not locked into the costs of a bricks-and-mortar structure. So we can serve them through technology and that enables us to price ourselves very competitively," he said.
The Citibank/AGF venture could set a pattern for other foreign banks seeking to enter Canada with an established customer base, Stuart said.
BIG BANKS UNDER PRESSURE FROM LOCAL RIVALS
The Big Six banks are pressured by local rivals as well.
Last month, Vancouver City Savings Credit Union, the country's biggest credit union with $3.6 billion in assets, applied to open a nationwide branchless bank early next year.
While cyber competitors are poised to invade the retail market, Canada's major banks are also on the move.
The banks spent a record $1.7 billion on new technology in 1995 and that is expected to reach $1.9 billion by 1998, according to a report by accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young.
Much of the money is being poured into alternative delivery channels such as point-of-sale credit and debit cards, ATMs, telephone and computer banking.
Cards account for more than a third of all payment transactions in Canada, up from 25 percent a year ago.
Telephone and computer transactions are climbing as well. Traditional bank transactions are seen falling to 21 percent in 1998 from 38 percent last year.
Among Canadian banks, Royal Bank is the top player in telephone banking with more than 800,000 subscribers. Bank officials expect 40 percent of their eight million customers to be using alternative channels in five years.
Last month, Royal Bank joined 14 other North American banks to set up a computer banking network with computer giant IBM in early 1997.
All the banks are struggling to decide the future of their branch networks, but CIBC has taken the first steps to overhaul its 1,400 branches.
In a recent pilot project, CIBC employed greeters to guide customers to ATMs for their basic banking needs. Bank tellers were retrained to advise customers on such products as mutual funds, loans and mortgages.
Billing it as the bank branch of the future, CIBC said transaction costs had fallen dramatically, while customer lineups were much thinner.
But by using these low-cost channels, customers will expect a break on service fees, which many consumers complain are too high, Ernst &amp; Young said.
Bank of Nova Scotia has taken the acquisition route to boost its Internet services. It recently bought a 10 percent stake in iSTAR Internet Inc., an Internet solutions firm, to help develop new channels and services for the bank.
Rupert Murdoch predicted in a newspaper interview on Friday that his global media group News Corp Ltd was on track to boost profits 20 percent this year and would win its legal battle with Ted Turner and Time Warner.
Murdoch, visiting Australia for News' annual meeting next Tuesday, also told News' Courier Mail newspaper in Brisbane that he did not want to buy out Australia's other major newspaper publisher, John Fairfax Holdings Ltd.
News, which publishes the major tabloid newspapers in Sydney and Melbourne as well as the Courier Mail and The Australian, also owns about five percent of Fairfax.
Rejoining his recent feud with CNN owner Ted Turner and Time Warner, Murdoch said he was confident News would win its law suit launched last week against Turner and Time Warner over their proposed merger.
"We've got a good stoush (fight) there," Murdoch said.
"We'll win through there. How or where I don't know but we'll just keep the pressure on," he said.
Turner said on Thursday that Murdoch's lawsuit to block the merger of Turner Broadcasting System Inc and Time Warner was a "frivolous piece of junk."
Murdoch and Turner have fought a pitched business battle in recent months over Turner's plans to merge his Cable News Network (CNN) with Time Warner, creating the world's largest media group.
At issue is whether Time Warner, the United States' second largest cable operator, will carry Murdoch's soon-to-be launched competitor to CNN.
News Corp is claiming US$1 billion in damages from Time Warner and Turner, saying their decision not to carry News' 24-hour Fox News Service showed they were stifling competition.
"They promised me very firmly we'd have nine million subscribers and when the day came to sign the document, they weren't there," Murdoch said of the Time Warner decision.
Turner was forced to apologise last week for comparing Murdoch to Adolf Hitler, while Murdoch has described CNN as liberal and his executives have said Turner was monopolistic.
Murdoch also reaffirmed News' bullish outlook for profits.
"If the American economy holds where it is and the British one does, yes certainly (the 20 percent rise is attainable)," he told the Courier Mail.
"But it is still early days to be saying that," the newspaper quoted Murdoch as saying.
News said after its 1995/96 results in late August that a 20-percent profit rise in the year to June 30, 1997 was very attainable. News posted a A$1.02 billion (US$790 million) net profit in 1995/96.
But it did not repeat the 20-percent forecast in its annual report last month, creating some doubt about the outlook.
Murdoch also said he had no plans to buy out John Fairfax Holdings, which publishes the major broadsheet newspapers in Sydney and Melbourne and is News' major competitor in newspapers.
But he said Australian-based rival mogul Kerry Packer was also unlikely to bid for Fairfax any time soon if current goverment restrictions were lifted.
"I don't want to buy Fairfax. I don't believe Mr (Kerry) Packer wants to buy Fairfax," he said.
"To my knowledge he (Packer) has three times tried to sell his shares within the last 12 months. He'd like to influence and have the power of Fairfax but he's too shrewd to be paying for Fairfax at today's price."
Murdoch also criticised the conservative government of Australian prime minister John Howard for not implementing radical economic reforms immediately.
(A$1 = US$0.79)
News Corp Ltd chairman and chief executive Rupert Murdoch, visiting Australia for News' annual meeting next week, says his global media group remains on track to boost profits by 20 percent in 1996/97.
Murdoch, in a newspaper interview published on Friday, also ruled out any potential News Corp bid for Australian newspaper publisher John Fairfax Holdings Ltd and said Kerry Packer's Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd had repeatedly tried to sell its 15 percent Fairfax stake in the last year.
News Corp owns about five percent of Fairfax.  
Rejoining his recent feud with CNN owner Ted Turner and Time Warner, Murdoch also said he was confident his law suit against the two would succeed.
Turner said on Thursday that Murdoch's lawsuit to block the merger of Turner Broadcasting System Inc and Time Warner was a "frivolous piece of junk."
Murdoch said he was confident he would win the legal action launched last week to block the Turner merger with Time Warner.
"We've got a good stoush (fight) there," Murdoch said.
"We'll win through there. How or where I don't know but we'll just keep the pressure on," he said.  
Murdoch repeated News' bullish outlook for profits.
"If the American economy holds where it is and the British one does, yes certainly (the 20 percent rise is attainable)," he told News Corp's Courier Mail newspaper in Brisbane.
"But it is still early days to be saying that," the newspaper quoted Murdoch as saying.
News Corp said after its 1995/96 results in late August that a 20 percent profit rise in the year to June 30, 1997 was very attainable. News posted a A$1.02 billion net profit in 1995/96.  
Murdoch then said the government's investigation of the current cross-media rules, which stop the dual ownership of newspapers and television stations in the same city, would benefit Packer. Murdoch predicted the cross-media restrictions would be removed, but that foreign ownership rules would stay.
"So it will leave things open for him (Packer) and not for us," Murdoch said.
The rules currently stop Packer's Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd from increasing its 15 percent holding in Fairfax while it owns the top-rating Nine Network.  
They also stop Murdoch's News from increasing its 15 percent stake in the Seven Network Ltd while it owns News Ltd newspaper publishing change. Foreign ownership rules stop News from increasing its five percent stake in Fairfax.
Asked what he expected to emerge from the government's investigation into the cross-media rules, Murdoch said: "I think whatever Mr Packer wants. He seems to have very close influence with certain ministers in this government."
Murdoch would not name the ministers.
However Packer was unlikely to push for a higher Fairfax stake at the moment, Murdoch said.  
"I don't want to buy Fairfax. I don't believe Mr (Kerry) Packer wants to buy Fairfax," he said.
"To my knowledge he (Packer) has three times tried to sell his shares within the last 12 months. He'd like to influence and have the power of Fairfax but he's too shrewd to be paying for Fairfax at today's price."
Fairfax is 25 percent owned by Conrad Black's Hollinger International Inc, which is majority owned by Hollinger Inc.  
Murdoch also criticised the conservative government of Australian prime minister John Howard for not implementing decisive changes to boost the economy.
"If you're going to make radical changes, you'd better make them in the first year," Murdoch said of the government, which defeated the Labor government in the election on March 2.
"I think they've been slow to do that and not appearing as radical a government as I would have hoped," he said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
China's decision to ban imports of some U.S. chicken meat due to concerns about a fowl plague could hit a multi-million dollar export business, although U.S. officials said on Friday their chickens do not have the disease.
"We don't have highly pathogenic avian influenza in the U.S.," a U.S. quarantine official told Reuters.
"There is no record of it being found in domestic poultry," he said. It had been eradicated after an outbreak in the 1980s.
"It affects the birds but not the meat, the meat does not transmit anything to people," he said.
Washington's agriculture attache in Beijing confirmed by fax to his head office on Thursday that China had blocked imports of chicken meat from 10 U.S. states because of concerns about highly pathogenic avian influenza.
U.S. sources in Beijing said nothing had been received in writing about the ban from China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ).
"It came out of the blue," a senior diplomatic source said.
Embassy officials hoped to meet Ministry of Agriculture officials on Friday or Monday, an embassy source said.
Asked to confirm reports of the block on chicken imports, a quarantine official in Beijing told Reuters by telephone: "It is true." He declined to give details.
Officials of the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (Ceroils) said they had heard of the ban but also declined to give further information.
Customs officials said they were unaware of the ban.
The ban could have a major effect on U.S. poultry exports to China, which in 1995 totalled 330,000 tonnes trans-shipped through Hong Kong alone, and worth US$445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
China is the second largest market for U.S. poultry products after Russia, the council's Hong Kong director Sarah Li said.
"It is the only market to take paws," she said, referring to chicken feet. "People say U.S. chickens need wheelchairs because all their feet are going to China."
Thirty containers a day of chicken feet moved from Hong Kong into China, she said. Any hold-ups would cost importers dearly because of the high cost of storage in Hong Kong.
U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) official John Reddington told a meeting of U.S. poultry producers on Thursday the industry should diversify its export markets as it was vulnerable to changes in sanitary rules such as one that halted shipments to Russia earlier this year.
The drop in prices following the changes in Russia could have put some U.S. producers out of business had it continued, he said.
The Chinese chicken ban is the latest headache for U.S. agriculture officials in China who have been dealing with fears of importing potentially tainted products for over 20 years.
Wheat is an on-going issue, with China refusing to import the grain from the U.S. Pacific northwest because it cannot be guaranteed to be free of a fungus called TCK smut.
Washington claims the fungus is harmless, that the ban is not based on good science, that it cuts annual U.S. wheat sales to China by 500,000 tonnes and is a non-tariff trade barrier.
China, on the other hand, says TCK smut could cut domestic wheat yields if it got into the domestic growing areas.
U.S. officials on Friday said any ban that China might place on U.S. chicken meat imports because of avian influenza was not based on sound scientific evidence.
"It comes down to good science versus bad science," a senior official said on condition of anonymity.
Poultry meat was not a likely vehicle for transmission of the virus, he said, and U.S. poultry meat exports posed no threat to the international poultry industry.
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843-6470
China's Communist Party leader Jiang Zemin appears to be making all the right moves to shore up his position to retain power after the death of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, diplomats and analysts said on Friday.
Jiang has declared war on corruption, crime and poverty -- scourges that have plagued China for centuries and led to the downfall of many a dynasty.
In his latest move, he used the party's four-day, annual closed-door plenum that ended in Beijing on Thursday to resurrect ideological puritanism -- spiritual civilisation -- which has been eroded by nearly two decades of economic reforms.
Whether Jiang would be able to stave off challenges from rivals in the party and cling to power in the post-Deng era hinged in part on the crucial 15th party congress to be held in late 1997, diplomats and analysts said.
The party's political heavyweights will be jockeying for position in the run-up to next year's congress, a five-yearly opportunity for reshuffles in the party's powerful Politburo and its yet more influential standing committee.
Chinese sources say the Communist Party is debating a plan to revive the post of chairman and to create one or two vice chairman positions -- one of which could be given to Premier Li Peng, a loose ally of Jiang whose term ends in 1998.
Li is required by the constitution to step down as premier in 1998 after serving two six-year terms and is keen to find another job to remain in the top echelons of power.
Armed with the weapon of spiritual civilisation -- communist jargon for toeing the party line -- Jiang is battling to avoid the fate of his two predecessors, analysts said.
Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang were sacked from the party's general secretary post in 1987 and 1989 respectively because their "grip on material civilisation was tight but their grip on spiritual civilisation was loose", one Chinese analyst said.
"They did not pay enough attention to ensuring that the party's position could not be challenged...that was what brought them down," an Asian diplomat said of Hu and Zhao.
A plenum communique attested to Jiang's worries. "From the start to the end, we should be resolute on tightening the grip on both," the plenum communique said.
"At no time can we sacrifice spiritual values in the name of momentary economic development," the communique said.
The spiritual civilisation campaign aims to create a communist utopia -- stamp out superstition, tighten the party's grip on media, instil politically correct values and create heroes and model workers whose orthodox Marxist behaviour the populace at large should strive to emulate.
It is hardly rousing stuff. But Jiang may be desperate.
Analysts said Jiang remained overshadowed by Deng, architect of the market-oriented economic reforms and still influential even without an official post and despite increasingly fragile health.
"In the midst of his great triumph, Jiang Zemin if he is all that powerful...there is no need for him to go out of his way to mention Deng Xiaoping," a Western diplomat said referring to the communique that tips its hat to Deng.
"Jiang Zemin...is still in consolidation mode...in the process of selling himself," he said. "The jury is still out."
Jiang is eager to consolidate his power base even after amassing the three most important positions in China -- general secretary of the Communist Party, state president and chairman of party's powerful Central Military Commission.
Many diplomats see Jiang as a transitional figure after the death of Deng, which is widely expected to trigger a scramble for power among those eager to succeed him as the de facto emperor of the world's most populous nation.
The watchdogs of China's ruling Communist Party have ordered members to obey a call from party chief Jiang Zemin for ideological orthodoxy -- or face disciplinary punishment, state media said on Saturday.
"The work style of the ruling party is a matter of life and death," the People's Daily quoted a decision by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the Communist Party of China as saying after a meeting this week.
The commission also issued a call for clean government, warning of the threat of corruption to continued party rule.
"Party organisations and members should conscientiously carry on the party's fine traditions and work style," it said.
The statement was issued two days after the party wound up its annual policy-making plenum with a pledge to boost orthodox socialist values that have been eroded by nearly two decades of economic reforms.
"Anyone who violates the sixth plenum's decisions, or who disobeys orders, or engages in harmful activities against socialist ethical and cultural progress, should be strictly disciplined," the discipline commission said.
The party plenum had said spiritual civilisation -- Chinese communist jargon for ideological orthodoxy and toeing the party line -- could not be sacrificed in the name of the economic reforms spearheaded by paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
The commission echoed the plenum's call for a return to the communist puritanism espoused by the late Chairman Mao Zedong.
"The work style of close links to the masses, criticism and self-criticism, hard work, and building a clean and honest government should also be continued," the commission said.
The ruling party has seen its credibility undermined in recent years after the chaos of the ultra-leftist 1966-76 Cultural Revolution and as loopholes for corruption opened up by economic reform have tempted many senior party officials.
"The crackdown on corruption is one of the important tasks of improving the party's work style and clean government and for promoting ethical and cultural progress," the commission said.
It called on party committees throughout China to intensify their battle against corruption and to severely punish those found guilty of corruption.
Jiang, who is also state president, has warned repeatedly that corruption is a virus that threatens to topple the party.
Jiang had been expected to seize on the plenum as the last chance before a crucial congress in 1997 to underline his role as anointed heir to Deng Xiaoping, who has been fading gradually from the scene, diplomats and Chinese sources said.
He has made clear that he wants to place his stamp on ideology in China.
The party mouthpiece, the People's Daily, has filled its front page for several days with examples of model workers whose socialist values the populace at large should strive to emulate.
Among these is Beijing bus conductress Li Suli, who is said to rise at 4.00 a.m. to make sure she is familiar with major sites along the route so that she can help disoriented passengers. She then washes the bus windows.
Diplomats said Jiang was using the campaign -- coupled with a tough line on the media and ideology -- to boost his position.
Detained Chinese dissident Wang Dan faces the capital charge of plotting to subvert the government based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad, a human rights group said on Saturday.
Wang Dan's case was expected to come to trial next week, the New York-based Human Rights in China said in a statement.
Relatives said on Friday they had succeeded in finding a lawyer willing to defend Wang, the former leader of the 1989 student demonstrations for more democracy centred in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
The Beijing People's Intermediate Court on Thursday informed Wang's mother, Wang Lingyun, that she had one day to find her son a lawyer, a signal that the dissident had been indicted and a trial was imminent.
The family on Friday obtained a copy of the court chargesheet, which formally accused the 26-year-old of plotting to subvert the government, a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death.
The indictment cited four major areas of evidence against Wang, Human Rights in China said.
The first was the writing of articles published in overseas magazines and newspapers, including some that criticised the government, in the three years since his release from jail.
Wang served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in the 1989 demonstrations, which were crushed by the army on June 3-4 with heavy loss of life.
Other evidence against the former student at prestigious Beijing University included taking part in studies at home organised by the University of California, Berkeley, in the United States, Human Rights in China said.
The charges accused Wang and other dissidents of joining forces to collect funds and donations to help other dissidents facing difficulties and the lack of work after their release from prison, the group said.
Wang was also accused of accepting donations and economic aid from overseas organisations, it said.
Wang's lawyer had already visited the court dealing with Wang's case to begin legal formalities, but there was still no news of when the trial of the former student leader, who has been in detention since May 1995, would begin, a close relative said.
"We feel pretty anxious. We are just waiting for new developments," the relative told Reuters.
The outspoken activist attracted the ire of China's communist authorities in 1989 when he shot to prominence as a leader of student protests for more democracy centred on Tiananmen Square in the heart of the Chinese capital.
Wang had been expected to face new charges since last December, when the court that convicted veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng -- a nominee for this year's Nobel Peace Prize -- of plotting to overthrow the government also implicated the former student leader.
The court's verdict said Wei, who was jailed for 14 years, had links with people "convicted of counter-revolutionary crimes, including Wang Dan". It also referred to a tape-recorded conversation between Wang and Wei, but gave no details.
Wang had been active since his release from jail, defying persistent police surveillance and harassment to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
Australia said on Friday it was determined not to let India's veto kill a worldwide nuclear test ban treaty and vowed to lead a push for a United Nations resolution to keep the dream of a global pact alive.
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said Canberra had launched a campaign at the United Nations to revive the draft Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), after a disarmament conference failed to agree on a text in the face of Indian opposition.
"What we don't want to do is let the CTBT die," Downer told a news conference during a visit to Beijing on Friday. "An enormous amount of effort has gone into it, there has been a very wide measure of agreement on the text.
"We think the best way to take it forward is for us to ... take a resolution to the United Nations General Assembly in support of that text," he added.
Government officials in Canberra said Australia would lead the charge to win agreement for the treaty and would look for co-sponsors for a U.N. resolution to allow it to be opened for signing despite the failure to reach a consensus.
"We will work to achieve the treaty's endorsement during the current session of the U.N. General Assembly and its opening for signature at the earliest possible date," Downer said in a statement released in Canberra.
The 61-nation Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, which needed a unanimous stance to allow it to approve a draft text, on Thursday decided it could not even agree to report its failure to the General Assembly.
New Delhi, which had demanded nuclear powers commit themselves to move towards total disarmament, was able to block the treaty's progress singlehandedly -- prompting calls for a new way to be found to keep it alive.
Diplomats have said there is little time left for the 51st General Assembly to open the pact for signature at a ceremony in late September.
Australian ambassador for disarmament Richard Starr told Reuters in Geneva that Canberra still believed the treaty could be salvaged after nearly three years of negotiation and "decades of expectations".
"There is a clear need for friends of the CTBT to consider action so that the whole international community will be able to consider, endorse and sign this valuable treaty," Starr said.
"We would not want to see a treaty text die in a pigeonhole in Geneva," he said.
Australia, using its standing as a middle-ranking, non-nuclear power, has sought to play a leading role in the campaign to end nuclear testing.
Diplomats in Geneva said earlier this week the five declared nuclear powers -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- considered Australia best placed to present the draft treaty to the UN general assembly in the form of a resolution calling for a swift signing ceremony.
Downer said there was still some way to go to ensure the treaty's survival but expressed optimism a resolution would find widespread support.
"This is just the beginning of a process," he said. "I think there will be very strong support for our move."
AT&amp;T Corp chairman and chief executive Robert Allen will step down early as the price of attracting a talented enough successor to take over, sources close to the company said on Friday.
The sources said that whoever is chosen to succeed Alex Mandl, who quit in August as president and chief operating officer, would expect to be able to succeed Allen, 61, well before the four years still to run on his contract.
"I think it is fair to assume that," said one source, declining to be identified.  
AT&amp;T would not comment on the search for Mandl's successor and whether the candidate would succeed Allen.
"The search by the board is a private matter and we won't comment beyond that," said AT&amp;T spokesman Jim Byrnes.
Analysts say one possibility is that Allen would split out the role of chief executive to the new candidate in a year or so but retain his chairmanship until retirement.
"I expect the (AT&amp;T) system would allow and wish Allen to stay on in a senior official position for some time," said Mark Bruneau of consultant COBA MID.  
An ambitious candidate would wantct on the strategic direction of AT&amp;T, one source said, noting he fast-changing telecommunications market may be barely recognizable in ars.
The sources declined to comment on who the candidates might be, but many aired in the media already seem to have ruled themselves out.
"There is probably more speculation out there than truth in the media at this juncture (on who the candidates are)," said one of the sources.  
The AT&amp;T board meets next Wednesday, a day before its third quarter results, and may discuss the issue then.
Allen, a 40-year AT&amp;T career veteran, would be reluctant to depart early, but in a recent press interview said he would consider it if a perfect candidate came along.
AT&amp;T has hired executive search groups Korn Ferry and Spencer Stuart to look for an outside candidate, but officials at the firms declined to comment on the process.  
Two candidates mentioned by the New York Times on Friday virtually ruled themselves out. William Esry, chairman of long distance telephone company Sprint Corp, said through a spokesman he was unaware of being on any AT&amp;T candidate list.
"His contract with Sprint precludes working with competitors for several years after he leaves the company," the Sprint spokesman added.
Similarly, Hughes Electronics Corp said president Michael Armstrong was unaware of being an AT&amp;T candidate.  
The Wall Street Journal reported that Eastman Kodak Co chairman George Fisher and former AT&amp;T director James Barksdale, who is chairman of Netscape Communications Corp, also ruled themselves out of the speculation.
Expectations of an earlier end to Allen's career have been fanned by AT&amp;T's profit warning in September, in which it said earnings per share for the third quarter may be 10 percent below analysts' expectations.
The warning crowned a bad year for the largest U.S. telecommunications firm.  
AT&amp;T incurred the wrath of politicians and the media for announcing 40,000 job cuts in January, but an improved stock performance it was meant to produce has not appeared, so Wall Street and investors are not happy either.
While the company's split into three parts is going ahead as planned, the remainder of AT&amp;T is now more firmly wedded to the long distance telecommunications services sector, in which competition is heating up.
While the Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 16 percent in 1996, AT&amp;T -- adjusted for its split -- is down 16 percent. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
United Parcel Service of America Inc (UPS) said the first aircraft to use its US$4 million Asia-Pacific hub now under construction in Taiwan will arrive on September 10, Mark Sobolewski, UPS director of engineering for Asia-Pacific told Reuters.
He added that the first phase of the hub at Taipei's Chiang Kai Shek airport is due to formally open on October 10 and is on schedule to be fully operational by March next year.
Six Boeing aircraft -- two 747s, two 757s and two 767s -- are due to operate eight flights a day in and out of Taipei six days a week from March connecting the U.S. with the company's growing Asian network.
The fast package carrier confirmed this week that it had won traffic rights to operate five frequencies a week from Bangkok. Sobolewski says other cities to be linked to the Taipei hub are Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Osaka.
"The hub will enhance our service throughout Asia, make us more competitive and as this market grows we will have a reliable product and give a superior service. We have had very positive feedback from our customers especially in Taiwan," Sobolewski told Reuters from his Singapore office.
With the six aircraft, some brand new, the total investment in Taipei will amount US$400 million, UPS said. It added construction work on the first phase of the 4,800 square metres sorting office began this month.
The first Taiwan-based aircraft due next month will activate traffic rights awarded to UPS under the recent Japan-U.S. bilateral agreement, allowing packages to be picked up at Osaka's Kansai airport for distribution throughout Asia.
Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Freight forwarders in Hong Kong say they have been warned that there will be a 20 percent increase in transpacific air cargo rates from the territory when the peak season starts on September 1.
Anthony Lau, vice-chairman of the 260 member Hong Kong Association of Freight Forwarding Agents Ltd (HAFFA), told Reuters that the 20 percent increase in the run up to Christmas was not surprising.
"I think it is fair and in line with expectations," Lau said.
He added it will apply to cargo destined for both the U.S. east and west coasts.
Warning notices had been received from the major transpacific carriers including Northwest Airlines, China Airlines, Japan Airlines, United Airlines, Evergreen International Airlines and Polar Air Cargo, Lau said.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Australia's Foreign Minister Alexander Downer announced on Friday an agreement with China to expand their security dialogue, saying recent frictions had failed to spoil growing ties between the two Pacific powers.
Disagreement over Taiwan, a coming meeting with the Dalai Lama and Chinese concerns over a Canberra-Washington security pact had not spoiled the atmosphere during meetings with his Chinese counterparts, Downer told a news conference in Beijing.
"I have been able to develop a security dialogue between Australia and China," he said. "What I would like to see happen is us holding, on an annual basis, senior officials' talks about regional security issues."
Downer said an Australian proposal for broadening existing annual bilateral disarmament talks into such a dialogue had been accepted by Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, but he gave no details of how they were likely to be organised.
"It's symbolically important because it reaffirms ... that the Australian government does not support a policy of containment of China," he said.
Downer's coming meeting with the Dalai Lama, Beijing's arch-rival for the loyalties of the Tibetan people, had not been a sticking point in talks with Premier Li Peng, he said.
Beijing regards the Dalai Lama as an anti-China "splittist", and condemns all attempts by Tibet's supreme spiritual leader to gather international support for autonomy in the restive Himalayan region.
Downer said he would meet the Dalai Lama when he arrived in Australia next month, but said the Chinese premier had made no direct mention of the visit.
A defence pact in July between Washington and Canberra that raised hackles in Beijing had not been brought up as a Chinese concern, while a proposal to supply uranium to Beijing's rival Taiwan was far from becoming a reality that could disrupt growing ties, he said.
Australian officials said Downer had fulfilled a pledge made last month in Hong Kong to raise the case of jailed Chinese-born Australian businessman James Peng during his Beijing trip.
Peng, 36, was sentenced to 18 years in a Chinese prison last September after being convicted of embezzling about A$240,000 (US$180,000) in the southern city Shenzhen. He has insisted he was framed by powerful commercial rivals.
Downer had requested that China deport Peng before the end of his scheduled term, but had been told the prisoner's sentence was a matter for the judiciary to decide, officials said.
A leading Chinese dissident has fled to Hong Kong just days after a colleague in Beijing was sent to a labour camp and is reported to be seeking asylum in the United States, government-funded radio said on Sunday.
Radio Television Hong Kong quoted an unidentified source close to veteran democracy activist Wang Xizhe as saying he had seen Wang in Hong Kong and he appeared to be in good health.
Wang, who would be the second Chinese dissident to escape to the United States via Hong Kong this year, was expected to arrive there within the next 24 hours, a source aligned with the democratic movement in Hong Kong said.
Another Hong Kong source earlier said Wang could leave Hong Kong for the United States as early as Sunday night.
Wang has been missing from his home in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong since fellow activist Liu Xiaobo was arrested in Beijing last Tuesday and ordered to serve three years in a labour camp.
"The source said Mr Wang started planning his departure as soon as Mr Liu was arrested," Radio Television Hong Kong said.
"He confirmed that he had seen the dissident in Hong Kong and that his health was good," it said.
Wang had approached members of the pressure group, the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Democratic Movement in China, for help, the radio said.
They in turn had asked the Hong Kong government to help the democracy activist to seek political asylum in the United States, it said. A government spokesman declined to comment.
Dissident Liu Gang fled last May following months of police harassment at his home in northeastern Liaoning province since his release after serving a six-year prison term as a leader of the 1989 student-led demonstrations for more democracy.
Wang Xizhe had been active in recent months, sending several daring open letters to the government.
On September 30, Wang joined activist Liu Xiaobo in issuing a statement urging China's communist authorities to honour a promise in 1945 to give people freedom of the press and speech and to form political parties and stage demonstrations.
In a bold move, the two demanded Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin be indicted, impeached and step down for violating the constitution for saying the People's Liberation Army was under the "absolute leadership" of the party instead of the state.
Wang was paroled in 1993 after serving 12 years of a 14-year term for sedition and remains deprived of his political rights and thus is not permitted to issue such public statements.
Wang, one of China's most outspoken proponents of democracy, began his activities in 1974 when he has one of three authors of a renowned pro-democracy article that was pasted up as a wall-poster in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province.
Wang and his two co-authors served several years in jail for his audacity in challenging the authoritarian rule of Chairman Mao Zedong but was released in 1979.
That same year he took part in the Democracy Wall movement in Beijing, but was not arrested until 1981.
His reported escape comes amid a renewed crackdown on China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Detained dissident and former student leader Wang Dan faces the capital charge of plotting to subvert the government in a trial that could take place as early as this week based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad, a human rights group said.
China issued another strong signal Sunday that its stock and bond markets have been given the green light for fast growth to provide the economy with more efficient means of investment.
A report in the official Shanghai Securities News was the latest in a series of indications that Beijing's previous suspicion of the securities markets has been replaced by a determination to expand and strengthen them.
Shanghai Securities News quoted a report that said the stock and bond markets must be developed vigorously to provide a stronger foundation for national economic development.
The newspaper quoted a report from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a think-tank, as saying the efficiency of investment channels was a key question affecting the long-term development of China's economy.
"The sluggish development of the direct investment markets is one of the factors affecting the long-term development of the national economy, so it is necessary to speed up the development of stocks, bonds and other direct investment markets," it said.
More direct investment would help to reduce the tangle of problems surrounding heavily indebted state enterprises and the state banks, which are currently forced to support the enterprises with a constant supply of loans, the report said.
"Banks are being squeezed from both sides, given the high risk (of loans to state enterprises) and the ever-growing deposits they are taking in," the paper said.
It said that it would be better for all parties if depositors put less cash into bank deposits and invested it directly in companies through the securities markets.
"Most of the money in the hands of ordinary people is currently put into bank accounts, which increases total bank deposits even as enterprises are short of money, resulting in capital being left idle and wasted," the report said.
The current small scale of the direct investment markets was a key reason for this imbalance, it said.
"So how to standardise, develop and strengthen the direct investment markets to allow for more reasonable usage of deposits is an important part of raising the efficiency of banks and making more efficient use of capital," it added.
The report gave no details on shifting the focus of enterprise investment from banks loans to securities, but Beijing has implemented a number of measures recently aimed at expanding the securities markets.
A record number of companies have been given approval this year to list shares on the country's two stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
The Shenzhen market was strongly affected last week by rumours, denied in Beijing, that securities authorities were about to release the quotas for company listings for next year.
But authorities last week did announce a major relaxation of policy on mutual funds, which are seen as an important conduit for funnelling funds from ordinary people into the securities markets.
Regulations allowing existing mutual funds to list on the stock exchanges are due to be released before the end of the year, official media reports said.
In another development, a senior Chinese official was quoted as saying Sunday that China is preparing to tap overseas capital markets by listing shares of one or two of its chemical companies abroad.
Chemical Industry Minister Gu Xiulian told Business Weekly that one or two chemical companies were getting ready for share offerings abroad, though she did not name the companies or the exchanges.
China's Communist Party, in what it called one of its greatest ever documents, warned on Sunday against hostile Western ideas such as parliamentary democracy and capitalism and vowed to fight back with puritan Marxist values.
The 15,000-character document -- adopted at last week's annual secret plenum of the ruling party elite -- marked the latest volley by party chief Jiang Zemin to boost his position by battling corruption, pornography and worship of money while promoting nationalism and hardline communist ideology.
Diplomats said a strong tone of opposition to the West and particularly the United States, which Beijing fears is pursuing a policy of containment toward China, also suffused the document, unveiled by the official Xinhua news agency.
They said Jiang was striving to placate leftwing party hardliners angered by what they see as an erosion of puritan communist values by nearly two decades of profit-based economic reform.
"The standard of moral conduct has been lowered in some spheres, and the practice of worshipping money, seeking pleasure and individualism has grown," the document said.
It railed against corruption, warning senior party officials not to be tempted by the lures of power, profit and sex.
Jiang has warned repeatedly that corruption is a virus that could topple the party which has ruled China since 1949, and public opinion surveys show graft as the top popular gripe.
In a sign that Jiang needs to consolidate his power base even after amassing China's three most important posts -- general secretary of the party, state president and chairman of the party's powerful Central Military Commission -- the document paid extravagant homage to paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, 92.
The text was littered with 14 mentions of Deng's name, against just three for Jiang and four for the late Chairman Mao Zedong.
Analysts say Jiang remains overshadowed by Deng, architect of the market-oriented reforms and influential even without an official post and despite increasingly fragile health.
However, a recurring theme of the document was a warning to the nation to be on guard against the West, taking up one of the main platforms of Jiang's rule -- the importance of patriotism.
It urged self-sufficiency, saying people should "fear no pressure, safeguard national sovereignty and surmount sanctions imposed by Western countries" -- a clear reference to the United States.
"Because socialism has suffered serious setbacks on a worldwide scale, pressure from the superiority of developed capitalist countries in economy...as well as the infiltrations of Western ideology will remain for a long time," it warned.
It advocated "how to...prevent and eliminate the spread of cultural garbage, resist the conspiracy by hostile forces to westernise and split our country," -- and suggested more flag-raising ceremonies and singing of the national anthem.
However, despite the lip-service to Deng Xiaoping, the document cast doubt over one of his most far-reaching reforms -- the lifting of a ban on private enterprise -- while repeating his opposition to western-style democracy.
"It is necessary to distinguish right from wrong on such major issues as...common development of various economic sectors with socialist public ownership as the mainstay versus privatisation...socialist democracy versus parliamentary democracy practised in Western countries," it said.
"Liberalism will precisely lead China to the capitalist road and undermine the political situation," the document thundered.
The family of detained Chinese dissident Wang Dan said on Sunday the former student leader could stand trial this week for the capital offence of plotting to overthrow the government. They said the charge was unfounded.
"Not one point in the bill of indictment broke the law, even less to speak of plotting to overthrow the government," his mother Wang Lingyun said in a telephone interview.
The 26-year-old former leader of the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations has been charged with the capital offence of plotting to subvert the government, based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad.
"All he did was to say a few things," Wang Lingyun said. "He is unjustly accused."
"He has always advocated peace and non-violence," she said. "There must be action or plans to constitute "overthrowing the government'."
She said the family had yet to be notified of when her son's trial would take place, but she said it could come this week.
Relatives said on Friday they had found a lawyer willing to defend Wang. The lawyer had already visited the court dealing with Wang's case to begin legal formalities, they said.
The Beijing People's Intermediate Court had informed Wang Lingyun on Thursday that she had one day in which to find her son a lawyer, a signal that a trial was imminent.
Wang was detained by police in a raid on his home in May 1995 but was not formally arrested or charged until last week.
On Friday the family obtained a copy of the court indictment, which accused Wang Dan of plotting to subvert the government, a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death. The minimum sentence is 10 years, although the court can show leniency if it finds extenuating circumstances.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in the 1989 demonstrations centred in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, which were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life..
The indictment cited four major areas of evidence against Wang, the New York-based Human Rights in China said.
The first was the writing of articles published in overseas magazines and newspapers, including some that criticised the government, in the three years since his release from jail.
Other evidence against the former Beijing University student included taking part in studies at home organised by the University of California, Berkeley, in the United States, Human Rights in China said.
The charges accused Wang and other dissidents of joining forces to collect funds and donations to help other dissidents facing difficulties and failure to find work after their release from prison, the group said.
Wang was also accused of accepting donations and economic aid from overseas organisations, it said.
Wang had been expected to face new charges since last December, when the court that convicted veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng -- a nominee for this year's Nobel Peace Prize -- of plotting to overthrow the government also implicated the former student leader.
The court's verdict said Wei, who was jailed for 14 years, had links with people "convicted of counter-revolutionary crimes, including Wang Dan". It also referred to a tape-recorded conversation between Wang and Wei, but gave no details.
Wang had been active since his release from jail, defying persistent police surveillance and harassment to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
A leading Chinese dissident has fled to Hong Kong just days after a colleague in Beijing was sent to a labour camp and is reported to be seeking asylum in the United States, government-funded radio said on Sunday.
Radio Television Hong Kong quoted an unidentified source close to veteran democracy activist Wang Xizhe as saying he had seen Wang in Hong Kong and that he appeared to be in good health.
Wang has been missing from his home in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong since fellow activist Liu Xiaobo was arrested in Beijing last Tuesday and ordered to serve three years in a labour camp.
"The source said Mr Wang started planning his departure as soon as Mr Liu was arrested," Radio Television Hong Kong said.
"He confirmed that he had seen the dissident in Hong Kong and that his health was good," it said.
Wang had approached members of the pressure group, the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Democratic Movement in China, for help, the radio said.
They in turn had asked the Hong Kong government to help the democracy activist to seek political asylum in the United States, it said. A government spokesman declined to comment.
However, one Hong Kong source with close ties to the Democratic Movement said Wang could leave Hong Kong for the United States as early as Sunday night.
Wang would be the second Chinese dissident to escape to the United States via Hong Kong this year.
Dissident Liu Gang fled last May following months of police harassment at his home in northeastern Liaoning province since his release after serving a six-year prison term as a leader of the 1989 student-led demonstrations for more democracy.
Wang Xizhe had been active in recent months, sending several daring open letters to the government.
On September 30, Wang joined activist Liu Xiaobo in issuing a statement urging China's communist authorities to honour a promise in 1945 to give people freedom of the press and speech and to form political parties and stage demonstrations.
In a bold move, the two demanded Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin be indicted, impeached and step down for violating the constitution for saying the People's Liberation Army was under the "absolute leadership" of the party instead of the state.
Wang was paroled in 1993 after serving 12 years of a 14-year term for sedition and remains deprived of his political rights and thus is not permitted to issue such public statements.
He has long been one of China's most outspoken proponents of democracy.
Wang began his activities in 1974 when he has one of three authors of a renowned pro-democracy article that was pasted up as a wall-poster in Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong province.
Wang and his two co-authors served several years in jail for his audacity in challenging the authoritarian rule of Chairman Mao Zedong but was released in 1979.
That same year he took part in the Democracy Wall movement in Beijing, but was not arrested until 1981.
His reported escape comes amid a renewed crackdown on China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Detained dissident and former student leader Wang Dan faces the capital charge of plotting to subvert the government in a trial that could take place as early as this week based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad, a human rights group said.
China needs to extend bank credits to help boost its flagging export sector, a top trade official was quoted as saying on Sunday.
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Wu Yi wanted commercial and subsidised bank credits, particularly for machinery and electrical equipment makers, the Financial Daily reported.
"First of all, I believe that the state should expand the size of its export lending," Wu said.
"It should maximize its use of domestic credits, finding new sources of credit, and expand use of foreign loans to boost exports of complete plants and equipment."
China's exports for the first eight months of the year were $90.61 billion, down 4.2 percent over the previous year, according to official figures.
Exports in July and August showed an improvement, however, after the government speeded up long delayed payments of export rebates.
Wu said commercial banks should be encouraged to make policy loans that might not be commercially attractive, and that state subsidies would be required.
"We want to encourage commercial banks to take on policy loans. With the assistance of the Export-Import Bank, the state will implement necessary financial subsidies," she said.
The minister said that big, turnkey projects required large amounts of capital and lengthy periods before they were completed.
While the projects were in progress, exporters had to deal with inflationary cost pressures, exchange rate fluctuations and tax rebate delays.
"In order to expand exports of complete plants and equipment we need an overall system to provide financial security for these companies," she said.
"This will effectively encourage exports of machinery and complete plants and equipment."
Wu said she was confident China could reach its total trade goal of $281 billion this year, though she gave no figure for exports.
China is preparing to tap overseas capital markets by listing shares of one or two of its chemical companies abroad, a senior Chinese official was quoted as saying on Sunday.
But as Beijing looks for foreign capital to upgrade its technology it plans to tighten foreign access to its own chemicals market by adding new restrictions on joint ventures.
Chemical Industry Minister Gu Xiulian told the Business Weekly that one or two chemical companies were getting ready for share offerings abroad, though she did not name the companies or the exchanges.
She also said that one or two Chinese companies would issue convertible bonds -- bonds convertible into stock -- on a trial basis, though regulatory guidelines were not yet in place.
China securities regulators are known to be preparing another batch of companies for share offers outside the country. It was unclear from Gu's remarks whether the chemical firms would be among those companies.
Tianjin Bohai Chemical Group already has a listing on the Hong Kong stock market as well as on the Shanghai exchange while Jilin Chemical Industrial trades in Hong Kong and New York as well as on China's southern bourse in Shenzhen.
Gu said that China's chemical industry needed to raise funds to make technical upgradings and that stock and bond offerings would help reach these goals.
"We are trying to achieve the shift to a quality, intensive mode (of production) from the quantity, extensive model with the aid of foreign capital," she said.
China will bar foreign companies from holding controlling stakes in joint ventures with big state enterprises in priority areas such as in soda ash and "sensitive materials".
There was no indication of when the move might go into effect, and the policy "does not mean we are totally opposed to stock control by foreign businesses", Gu said.
Gu had previously told reporters that China was planning to review its policies towards joint ventures in the chemical industry.
She had suggested that areas where new technology was vital to the development of domestic industry, foreign companies would be allowed to control joint ventures.
But other areas where China had already developed sufficient expertise would be closed to more than 50 percent foreign ownership.
China is particularly encouraging direct foreign investment in fertilisers, ethylene, synthetic materials as well as fine chemical products -- either as wholly owned or jointly owned operations, Gu told the newspaper.
She also criticised the "westernisation" of well known domestic products, saying that China needed an integration of foreign brands and domestic products.
China issued another strong signal on Sunday that its stock and bond markets have been given the green light for fast growth to provide the economy with more efficient means of investment.
The official Shanghai Securities News said the stock and bond markets must be developed vigorously to provide a stronger foundation for national economic development.
The newspaper quoted a report from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a think-tank, as saying the efficiency of investment channels was a key question affecting the long-term development of China's economy.
"The sluggish development of the direct investment markets is one of the factors affecting the long-term development of the national economy, so it is necessary to speed up the development of stocks, bonds and other direct investment markets," it said.
The report was the latest in a series of indications that Beijing's previous suspicion of the securities markets has been replaced by a determination to expand and strengthen them.
It said more direct investment would help to reduce the tangle of problems surrounding heavily indebted state enterprises and the state banks that are currently forced to support the enterprises with a constant supply of loans.
"Banks are being squeezed from both sides, given the high risk (of loans to state enterprises) and the ever-growing deposits they are taking in," the paper said.
It said that it would be better for all parties if depositors put less cash into bank deposits and invested it directly in companies through the securities markets.
"Most of the money in the hands of ordinary people is currently put into bank accounts, which increases total bank deposits even as enterprises are short of money, resulting in capital being left idle and wasted," the report said.
The current small scale of the direct investment markets was a key reason for this imbalance, it said.
"So how to standardise, develop and strengthen the direct investment markets to allow for more reasonable usage of deposits is an important part of raising the efficiency of banks and making more efficient use of capital," it added.
The report gave no details on shifting the focus of enterprise investment from banks loans to securities, but Beijing has implemented a number of measures recently aimed at expanding the securities markets.
A record number of companies have this year been given approval to list shares on the country's two stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
The Shenzhen market was strongly affected last week by rumours, denied in Beijing, that securities authorities were about to release the quotas for company listings for next year.
But authorities last week did announce a major relaxation of policy on mutual funds, which are seen as an important conduit for funnelling funds from ordinary people into the securities markets.
Regulations allowing existing mutual funds to list on the stock exchanges are due to be released before the end of the year, official media reports said.
Hong Kong conglomerate Wheelock &amp; Co Ltd has launched a search for a new partner for its fledgling Hong Kong fund management company following NatWest Group's decision to pull out.
"We've got nobody on the hook but there are people with whom we're having discussions," said Nicholas Sibley, deputy chairman of Wheelock NatWest Ltd, a 50-50 joint venture between Wheelock and Britain's National Westminster Bank Plc.
Wheelock NatWest revealed last week that NatWest wants to dispose of its stake in the fund management division following its acquisition of British pension giant Gartmore Plc in February for 472 million stg.
"The decision to buy Gartmore meant the support and distribution and all of that that had been hoped for from NatWest in support of Wheelock NatWest Investment Management obviously weren't going to be available. They were going to use Gartmore as their fund management arm instead," Sibley said.
Sibley expressed disappointment at NatWest's decision, but rejected speculation that the remaining divisions under the joint venture -- corporate finance and equity stockbroking -- could also become vulnerable to NatWest pulling out.  
"Yes, obviously we're disappointed," he said. "But there's no question of the equity and corporate finance business breaking up or anything like that. That is running along perfectly satisfactorily."
The joint venture, which offers corporate finance and equity stockbroking services as well as investment management in Hong Kong, became fully operational one year ago.
Sibley said he understood why NatWest wanted Gartmore.
"They had a very weak fund management side themselves and they needed to make a sort of quantum jump in that activity, which is what the acquisition of Gartmore did for them."
However, NatWest's decision to pull out comes at a particularly sensitive time for the new fund manager.
Wheelock NatWest Investment Management is experiencing rising commissions but the completion of its research division, considered essential to attract major institutional clients, has only just been completed, Sibley said.
"It takes a long time to build up a research product, which we only just got about a month ago," he said.  
"The commission figures go up and up and up every month. They haven't had a single down month since we started. But the big jump comes over the next six months when you can offer the full service to the major institutions and hope that we can attract them to deal with us through the quality of our research and execution service."
Wheelock now hopes to find a European or North American partner, said Wheelock NatWest chief executive David Miller.
He said he hoped a decision would be made by Christmas.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
Most software publishers are expected to report only modest increases in their latest earnings, reflecting a seasonal slowdown and a lack of new products this quarter.
"For the behemoths of the industry, like Microsoft and Oracle, business is still good," said Marshall Senk, an analyst at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co. in San Francisco.
"Summer is the slow buying season for most of the industry," but setting aside the seasonal slowing, "business is still pretty okay," he said.
Analysts expect Microsoft, the world's biggest personal computer software publisher, to report substantially higher earnings for its first fiscal 1997 quarter on the back of strong sales of its networking software and business programmes. Microsoft is scheduled to report results Oct. 21.
Better-than-expected sales of personal computers in the past few months also will contribute to Microsoft's revenue, analysts said.
Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., makes about a quarter of its revenue from the sale of its Windows family of operating systems -- a type of software that controls the basic functions of a personal computer.
The company benefits from strong PC sales because PC makers have to pay Microsoft a royalty for every copy of Windows they pack in machines they make.
Wall Street expects Microsoft to earn 90 cents a share, according to a survey of 24 analysts by First Call, which tracks Wall Street analysts' estimates. In the same quarter a year ago, Microsoft earned 78 cents a share.
Unlike Microsoft, however, Novell Inc., the biggest publisher of computer networking software, is not expected to perform as well.
The company is struggling to sell its NetWare flagship software, which manages networks of computers within a company, in the face of competition with Microsoft's Windows NT.
Novell, based in Provo, Utah, also faces management issues following the resignation of Bob Frankenberg as chief executive, said David Takata, an analyst at Gruntal &amp; Co. in Los Angeles.
"They clearly still have a lot of work to do" to get the company's management in order, Takata said.
Novell is expected to earn 18 cents a share in its fiscal fourth quarter, compared with 16 cents a year ago, according to a First Call survey of 17 analysts.
Meanwhile, vendors of software for large, corporate computer networks and database management tools will continue to post substantial gains on continuing strong demand, analysts said.
"For a relatively mature market, this niche is still growing at a good clip," said Jim Pickrel, an analyst at Hambrecht &amp; Quist in San Francisco.
Pickrel said he expects Oracle Corp. and Informix Corp. to report the most impressive results on strong sales of their database software -- programmes that help big companies keep track of huge libraries of corporate information.
Both are stealing business from Sybase Inc., another database software publisher, which is still struggling to recover from marketing and technical shortcomings last year.
Sybase is expected to report it broke even in the quarter, not counting charges for a restructuring, Pickrel said. In the year-earlier quarter, Sybase earned a penny a share.
Oracle, the biggest database software publisher, is expected to earn 27 cents a share for the fiscal second quarter ending Nov. 30, according to a survey of 27 analysts by First Call. A year ago it earned 21 cents.
Informix is expected to earn 18 cents a share, according to a First Call survey of 25 analysts. A year ago, Informix earned 16 cents.
Hambrecht &amp; Quist's Pickrel said Informix could pass Sybase this quarter in revenue to become the second biggest database vendor.
Second-shift workers at General Motors Corp. 's Cadillac assembly plant here will not report to work on Monday because of the Canadian Auto Workers strike and thousands more U.S. assembly employees may be laid off this week, GM said on Sunday.
The Cadillac plant on the outskirts of Detroit will operate with only one shift on Monday and Tuesday, when it is expected to halt production completely unless the strike is resolved, GM spokesman Thomas Klipstine said.
"Once they run out of parts, that's it," he said.
The plant employs more than 3,000 hourly workers represented by the United Auto Workers union, but Klipstine said he did not know the exact number of workers on each shift.
The sprawling factory, which builds Cadillac's DeVille, Seville and Eldorado luxury cars, depends on interior trim parts made at a strike-bound plant in Windsor, Ontario, just across the Detroit River.
GM's Canadian workers began an escalating strike on Oct. 3, shutting down all of the automaker's operations in Canada by late on Oct. 9.
The company and union have been unable to reach an agreement for a new national labour contract for GM's 26,000 CAW members because of disagreements over the thorny issue of shifting parts work to outside suppliers, known as outsourcing.
The union wants tough restrictions on outsourcing to protect its members' jobs, while GM, the least efficient automaker in North America, says it needs flexibility on parts purchases to become more competitive.
So far, GM's U.S. operations have been relatively untouched by the strike in Canada, largely because the CAW gave the automaker ample warning that it was preparing to strike. That, coupled with the slow escalation of the strike over a week-long period, allowed GM to build up stocks of some parts and prepare for the walkout.
"The bottom line is there was no surprise with this strike," Klipstine said. "We did as much as we could, but we don't have huge amounts of parts stockpiled."
Klipstine said he did not know how much longer GM could operate its U.S. plants.
Industry analysts have said some of GM's plants may be able to continue to operate until the end of the month, particularly those that build GM's popular full-size pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles.
On Friday, Ford Motor Co. President Alex Trotman said he did not believe his company would be able to gain a significant amount of market share due to the strike, because there has been "little evidence" that GM's hottest-selling truck lines will be affected.
Most GM dealers have sufficient car inventories to weather the strike without turning away customers, he said.
Thus far, the CAW has been responsible for the idling of only 2,000 U.S. workers.
The walkout forced the layoff of 1,050 workers at an engine plant in Tonawanda, N.Y., near Buffalo, and 950 at a transmission plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., near Detroit.
By contrast, a UAW strike in March at two Dayton, Ohio, brake plants had forced more than 55,000 of GM's workers off the job just one week after that walkout began.
No formal talks were scheduled between GM and the CAW, although CAW President Buzz Hargrove was expected to be in contact with GM's chief negotiator, Dean Munger.
Canada celebrates its national Thanksgiving Day holiday on Monday.
Meanwhile, in the United States, negotiators working towards a contract for GM's 215,000 United Auto Workers members also took the weekend off.
The UAW talks have taken a low profile during the Canadian strike.
Second-shift workers at General Motors Corp. 's Cadillac assembly plant here will not report to work on Monday because of the Canadian Auto Workers strike and thousands more U.S. assembly employees may be laid off this week, GM said on Sunday.
The Cadillac plant on the outskirts of Detroit will operate with only one shift on Monday and Tuesday, when it is expected to halt production completely unless the strike is resolved, GM spokesman Thomas Klipstine said.
"Once they run out of parts, that's it," he said.
The plant employs more than 3,000 hourly workers represented by the United Auto Workers union, but Klipstine said he did not know the exact number of workers on each shift.
The sprawling factory, which builds Cadillac's DeVille, Seville and Eldorado luxury cars, depends on interior trim parts made at a strike-bound plant in Windsor, Ontario, just across the Detroit River.
GM's Canadian workers began an escalating strike on Oct. 3, shutting down all of the automaker's operations in Canada by late on Oct. 9.
The company and union have been unable to reach an agreement for a new national labor contract for GM's 26,000 CAW members because of disagreements over the thorny issue of shifting parts work to outside suppliers, known as outsourcing.
The union wants tough restrictions on outsourcing to protect its members' jobs, while GM, the least efficient automaker in North America, says it needs flexibility on parts purchases to become more competitive.
So far, GM's U.S. operations have been relatively untouched by the strike in Canada, largely because the CAW gave the automaker ample warning that it was preparing to strike. That, coupled with the slow escalation of the strike over a week-long period, allowed GM to build up stocks of some parts and prepare for the walkout.
"The bottom line is there was no surprise with this strike," Klipstine said. "We did as much as we could, but we don't have huge amounts of parts stockpiled."
Klipstine said he did not know how much longer GM could operate its U.S. plants.
Industry analysts have said some of GM's plants may be able to continue to operate until the end of the month, particularly those that build GM's popular full-size pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles.
On Friday, Ford Motor Co. President Alex Trotman said he did not believe his company would be able to gain a significant amount of market share due to the strike, because there has been "little evidence" that GM's hottest-selling truck lines will be affected.
Most GM dealers have sufficient car inventories to weather the strike without turning away customers, he said.
Thus far, the CAW has been responsible for the idling of only 2,000 U.S. workers.
The walkout forced the layoff of 1,050 workers at an engine plant in Tonawanda, N.Y., near Buffalo, and 950 at a transmission plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., near Detroit.
By contrast, a UAW strike in March at two Dayton, Ohio, brake plants had forced more than 55,000 of GM's workers off the job just one week after that walkout began.
No formal talks were scheduled between GM and the CAW, although CAW President Buzz Hargrove was expected to be in contact with GM's chief negotiator, Dean Munger.
Canada celebrates its national Thanksgiving Day holiday on Monday.
Meanwhile, in the United States, negotiators working towards a contract for GM's 215,000 United Auto Workers members also took the weekend off.
The UAW talks have taken a low profile during the Canadian strike.
A lower than expected third quarter sales growth rate may explain why shares in Guidant Corp closed off 2-7/8 to 46-1/2 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange, said Guidant chief executive Ronald Dollens.
"There was some expectation of higher sales growth rates," Dollens said in an interview with Reuters.
Sales increased 11 percent on the quarter against the year-ago period. "Last quarter our sales were up 18 percent," Dollens said. "They were looking for a higher sales number ... I think that's what caused the consternation."  
Sales would have been up 13 percent if not for the negative impact of exchange rate translations, he said.
About 39 percent of the medical device manufacturer's sales are in non-U.S. markets. Unfavorable exchange rates hit hardest in Japan in the third quarter, Dollens said.
Guidant posted earnings of $41.2 million, or $0.57 per share, on sales of $260.1 million. A year ago, earnings were $28 million, or $0.39 per share, on sales of $234.1 million.
"Earnings were up 47 percent. They were above Street expectations, but the stock's getting hit. That is a hard one to understand," Dollens said.  
Analysts' concerns focused on Guidant's vascular intervention business, which saw a sales decline in the third quarter to $104.7 million from $108.4 million a year earlier.
"Revenues there were a little lower than expected," said Hilliard Lyons analyst Stephen O'Neil. "It relates to the stent business here in the U.S.... Right now they're not positioned quite right in that market, but I think they will be."
Guidant's U.S. sales of devices based on the most widely used stent technolgy are growing, but not enough to offset some erosion in other areas, Dollens said.  
Guidant expects to introduce two catheters into the U.S. market this quarter. "Then the truly important step will be when we get our stent approved in the United States," Dollens said, adding the ACS Multi-Link stent is selling in Europe.
"We did $14 million of stent sales internationally this quarter," Dollens said. A U.S. Food and Drug Administration trial is under way for the new stent. Patients who have received implants must now be tracked for nine months.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
U.S. computer hardware makers are expected to report mixed results for the third quarter starting this week, as some companies are still in the throes of product transitions, but a few will have solid earnings.
Among the large system makers, International Business Machines Corp is expected to have good results, but Digital Equipment Corp is expected to report a loss.
"Product transitions and U.S. strength, those are some issues for the third quarter," said Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial Group analyst.  
Currency will play less of a role than it has in the past two quarters, when it has had a negative impact on earnings, especially at multi-national giants like IBM.
"The negative impact from currency exchange rates is much reduced from June-quarter results," said John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst, referring to large computer systems makers.
Europe is still an issue for some companies, such as Digital, and this quarter will include the sluggish summer month of August, when many Europeans are on vacation.
"They (Digital) have significant exposure to Europe," said Steve Milunovich, a Morgan Stanley analyst.  
Milunovich said that Digital has more exposure in Europe, which has been "a bit under water," than IBM. Digital recently revamped its sales force in Europe and made changes in its distribution channel there, to help sluggish European sales.
Product transitions are still ongoing at some companies, such as Unisys Corp and Silicon Graphics Inc.
IBM has now completed a refresh of most of its hardware products, including its lower-cost mainframe line, the CMOS vesions of its System 390 mainframes and analysts are awaiting results of the first quarter to include any impact from the much-anticipated systems.  
"We expect IBM to highlight the success of its CMOS mainframes," Jones of Salomon said.
In the personal computer arena, analysts expect Compaq Computer Corp to again be the leader of the sector, but they do not expect a record quarter for the world's largest PC maker. Its strongest sales are in fourth quarter.
"I think the company had a good quarter and they probably gained market share," said Bill Milton of Brown Brothers Harriman, adding that it was a "so-so quarter" for the rest of the PC industry. Compaq has the highest profit margins in the industry and Milton said its margins should be up slightly.  
Among the weaker players in PCs, Apple Computer Inc is expected to report a loss, but analysts said they are more focused on the company's comments going forward. The troubled PC maker has previously forecast that it would return to profitability in its second fiscal quarter, ending March.
"Their first order of priority is to eliminate the losses," Milton said. "Can they reach break-even by December or March? Once we get to that point, we will look to see if they can begin to grow their revenues."
Milton is forecasting Apple's revenues will fall about 17 percent, versus the year ago period.  
The following is a list of consensus earnings estimates for some major U.S. computer makers, as compiled by First Call.
COMPANY	    CONSENSUS	  DATE	  YEAR-AGO
Amdahl	     loss $0.17	 Oct. 29     profit $0.17
Apple Computer   loss $0.30	 Oct. 16     profit $0.48
Compaq Computer  profit $1.07     Oct. 16     profit $0.89
Digital	    loss $0.14	 Oct. 22     profit $0.26
IBM Corp	   profit $2.43     Oct. 21     profit $2.30
Sun Micro	  profit $0.61     Oct. 15     profit $0.43
Tandem	     profit $0.30     Oct. 24     profit $0.17
Rite Aid Corp said it plans to swiftly integrate Thrifty PayLess Inc into its already-powerful company by attacking weaknesses in the regional drugstore chain's distribution and technology.
"To make this acquisition work, we have to reduce costs and we have to reduce costs rapidly," Rite Aid chief executive officer Martin Grass told more than 250 investors and analysts in a conference call.
In the latest drugstore merger to sweep the industry, Rite Aid announced plans to buy Thrifty PayLess for $1.4 billion.  
U.S. drugstores are consolidating at a feverish pace as the result of pricing pressures and costly computer upgrades that are essential in today's world of managed healthcare.
Industry analysts said Thrifty PayLess has been plagued by a weak distribution system and inefficient technology.
"It is our belief that our technology is a lot more sophisticated than what is being used at Thrifty PayLess and that there are significant benefits that we can bring -- not only to the store operations, but also to the customers," Grass said.  
Analysts expect Rite Aid to make significant progress reducing the Thrifty PayLess cost structure even though savings will not come from geographic overlap.  Rite Aid does not have any stores in Thirfty PayLess' West Coast markets.
"No one is as lean as Rite Aid," said Eric Bosshard of Midwest Research-Maxus Group.
But the proposed acquisition may create some new difficulties for Rite Aid, which typically has smaller stores and less varied merchandise than Thrifty PayLess.  Unlike Rite Aid, Thrifty PayLess sell plants, ice cream and shoes as well as traditional drugstore items.  
Concerns about Rite Aid's move into these new areas sent the company's stock down two to 33-7/8 in afternoon trade.
"This is something that is entirely outside their realm of experience.  That is a major question mark," said Joseph Ronning of Brown Brothers Harriman.
"These are completely different businesses.  These guys are general merchandisers," said Gary Vineberg of Merrill Lynch.
Grass addressed those issues in the conference call, saying that Rite Aid may add more merchandise experts to assess the different products.  
"There are certain lines of merchandise that we will continue to carry out West that we don't carry back East," Grass said.
Shares of Thrifty PayLess, which made its initial public offering in April at 14 per share, gained three to 21-3/8. Takeover stock traders said the deal values Thrifty PayLess at $23.32 per share.
The proposed acquisition of Thrifty PayLess seems to eliminate Rite Aid as a potential bidder for southeast drugstore chain Big B Inc.  Rite Aid has been viewed as a possible bidder for Big B, which is fighting a hostile takeover from Revco D.S. Inc.
But in announcing the Thrifty PayLess acquisition, Rite Aid also said that it is pulling out of Florida, Alabama and Georgia, which are Big B's key markets.
Top seed Goran Ivanisevic cruised to a 7-6 6-4 win over Romania's Adrian Voinea in the first round of the Czech Indoor Open on Monday.
In the only other match involving a seeded player on the opening day, Britain's Tim Henman overpowered Sweden's Nicklas Kulti 7-6 6-4.
Both players took advantage of the fast carpet court, blasting service winner after service winner to demoralise their opponents.
Ivanisevic, ranked fifth in the world, started slowly against world number 42 Voinea, before pulling away in the middle of the tie break and never looked back.
"It's always tough to play in a new hall and the carpet here is much faster than last week in Vienna," said Ivanisevic who hit 14 aces.
"But this was good preparation though because the tournament has so many top players. To win it will take at least one win over a top 10 player."
Ivanisevic's is scheduled to play the winner of Tuesday's match between Czech Petr Korda and Ecuardor's Nicolas Lapentti and could also have to get past third seed Boris Becker and eighth seeded Czech Bohdan Ulihrach it he is to reach Sunday's final.
Henman also used his dominating serve to wear down Kulti.
"It was a tough match but I think I should have taken the first set before the tiebreak," said Henman. "He fought back well but I felt more comfortable in the second set.
"I enjoy playing a tough match right from the start, it focuses you very quickly."
British-based exhibitions group Blenheim is seen as an ideal fit with rumoured suitor United News &amp; Media, share analysts said on Monday.
United News &amp; Media and Anglo-Dutch group Reed Elsevier have long been seen as rivals for the hand of Blenheim. However, industry sources said Reed was thought to be out of the running.
"Blenheim's strength in Europe and France in particular mean it would be a good fit (for United)," said one analyst. "The exhibitions business is also doing quite well at this stage in the cycle."
Dutch publisher VNU stirred the waters last week when it paid 500 pence a share to take a 15 percent stake in Blenheim. VNU declined comment on reports on Monday that it was set to increase its stake to 25 percent.
It said last week its 15 percent holding in Blenheim was a strategic long-term investment and said it had no intention of making an offer for the whole company unless rival offers emerged.
Its move is certain to have concentrated the mind of United News chief executive Clive Hollick, who is now reported to be weighing a bid of up to 520p per share, valuing Blenheim at some 480 million pounds ($757 million).
Blenheim shares closed 6 1/2p lower at 477 1/2p on Monday.
United News has so far refused to declare its hand. Analysts said a complicating factor was the continuing reorganisation of its businesses following its merger earlier this year with television and financial services group MAI. United News also publishes two British national newspapers.
"A bid makes a lot of sense but the timing is not good for United News," said media analyst Nick Ward of Credit Lyonnais Laing.
Blenheim, in which French utilities company Generale des Eaux has a 15 percent stake, posted pre-tax profits of 35.6 million pounds in 1995 on turnover of 202.5 million.
France was its largest source of revenue, accounting for 37 percent of earnings, followed by 26 percent from the U.S., 20 percent from Britain, 11 percent from Germany and six percent from the rest of the world.
Miller Freeman is the business magazines and exhibitions arm of United News. It operates in the U.S., Europe and Asia but analysts regard the American market as its main strength.
Analyst Anthony de Larrinaga of Panmure Gordon said a bid of around five pounds per share would represent an attractive deal for investors in both United and Blenheim.
He said that United was likely to be considering a bid between 480p and 530p per share. ($1=.6337 Pound)
Aluminium industry sources expressed doubt on Monday over whether producers association Kontsern Alyuminiy would be able to contain output to support sagging world prices.
"I don't believe they'll do it," said a Western trade source in Moscow.
A Moscow representative of the Krasnoyarsk smelter and two sources at the giant Bratsk plant said they had no information on plans to contain output.
"This is a very strategic question on which I have no information," said Bratsk-based Andrei Toropovsky of the plant's foreign economic relations department.
Kontsern Alyuminiy chief executive Igor Prokopov said Russian smelters had agreed to keep aluminium output at current levels and not to exploit at least 80,000-100,000 tonnes of idle annual capacity.
He and Vladimir Kalchenko, the group's first deputy chief executive, referred to weak world prices and unprofitable domestic smelters.
But the sources said Kontsern Alyuminiy had little leverage and was unlikely to be able to influence producers.
London Metal Exchange (LME) benchmark aluminium prices failed to react seriously and held little changed at $1,330 per tonne in early trade -- a sign that the market may have questions over what the Kontsern Alyuminiy plan means.
"The smelters tend to do what they want individually," said a European metals source. "I don't care what Kontsern Aluminiy says -- it doesn't affect my business."
Russia, with high electricity and freight costs and low domestic demand, is keen to see higher world metals prices. Aluminium is near 2-1/2 year lows of $1,305 and far below the $1,742 a tonne seen around this time last year.
A Russian industry source said profit margins on metal exported at average LME prices in the third quarter of this year were a negative 20 percent at Russia's Novokuznetsk smelter, negative 15 percent at Kandalaksha and negative 15-18 percent at plants in the Urals region.
Krasnoyarsk was breaking even, he said. Sayansk and Bratsk had profit margins of plus 10 percent. Irkutsk had 11 percent.
It costs Bratsk $1,127 to produce a tonne of aluminium, the source said. Freight charges to European outlets added $160 per tonne, leaving gross profits of about $110 per tonne, assuming LME prices of around $1,400.
"The Siberian smelters have a decent economic situation," said Ruslan Fedorovsky of Barclays Physical Trading Limited in London. "It's profitable for them to let the European smelters (with negative profit margins) die out."
A Canadian diplomat said last week in Moscow that Russian and Canadian government officials had met to discuss curbing Russian output, rekindling memories of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between major producers Russia, Australia, Canada, the European Union, Norway and the United States.
The MOU, designed to cut output by 10 percent and draw down bloated stocks, began in March 1994 and expired this spring.
Adding to uncertainty was a statement by Oleg Deripaska, chief executive officer of Sayansk Aluminium, who said on Friday that he expected a decision on decreasing output.
But sources said impending Russian purchases of alumina, the raw material for aluminium, would be a better indicator of how much metal Russian smelters plan to produce next year.
"That will be the telling time," said one source, referring to buying that should take place by the end of the year.
Trade sources in direct contact with Russian smelters said they would keep an eye on Kontsern Alyuminy, but doubted it could influence the industry.
"They (Kontsern Alyuminiy) don't really represent smelters and do not have a lot of credibility," one Western source said.
--Moscow Newsroom +7095 941 8520
Australian regional banks St George Bank Ltd and Advance Bank Australia Ltd on Monday unveiled a merger plan to create the nation's fifth largest bank with a market value of A$4.5 billion (US$3.55 billion).
"We have that golden opportunity, we are not going to miss it," St George Bank managing director Jim Sweeney told reporters at a joint news conference. This is the fifth merger St George has tried with different banks in the past two years.
"We are going to build a special new different bank here that will take advantage of all of things that many of us always want to do," said Sweeney, who will head the enlarged group.
Advance Bank shareholders would be offered a combination of A$2.10 in cash, a 20 cent special cash dividend and new St George shares up to a value of A$5.00 per Advance Bank share.
The total value of the offer was A$7.30 per Advance share, which values it at A$2.65 billion. St George would fund the offer by a mixture of cash and scrip and a new capital raising.
The friendly merger of the two Sydney-based banks would create a bank with assets of A$40 billion and make it one of Australia's top 25 listed companies.
"The Australian banking industry is currently going through a very dramatic stage, we cannot be sure what will come out the other end, but we believe this will allow us to make the most of opportunities that the market change present," Sweeney said.
Advance bank shares soared on the merger announcement. It closed 57 cents or nine percent higher at A$6.85, a record close. St George shares ended 40 cents or 4.5 percent lower at A$8.55, after hitting a low of A$8.30 during the day.
Australian banking analysts said that the offer was generous to Advance shareholders because it was well above prices paid in recent local banking takeovers.
Any rival bidders might be scared off entering the fray by a current official inquiry into the banking industry and an agreement, part of the merger deal, for Advance to pay A$100 million to St George if it is taken over by a third party.
"I think that would make it unattractive for somebody else to come in and make a bid," said Linda Lyon, banking analyst at brokers BNP Equities.
St George has been desperately seeking a friendly merger over the past two years to avoid being swallowed up itself.
The stock market viewed Australia's largest banking group, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), as the most likely predator.
NAB holds 6.8 percent of St George although it has said it had no takeover plans for the Sydney bank.
However, in June it voted against a plan for St George to merge with Queensland based Metway Bank Ltd.
NAB declined to comment on Monday's announcement.
St George's bid for Metway was also was scuttled by the Queensland government, which trumped St George's offer with a higher bid through its wholly-owned financial services group Suncorp and the Queensland Industry and Development Corp (QIDC).
Last year, St George was also blocked by Westpac Banking Corp, one of Australia's top banks, in a takeover bid for Perth-based Challenge Bank Ltd after Westpac made a higher offer.
St George was also in talks last year to merge with the Bank of Western Australia Ltd before the Bank of Scotland Plc took control of the Perth-based bank, and with the Bank of South Australia, which was taken over by Advance in early 1995.
A$1 = $US0.79
The mother of detained Chinese dissident Wang Dan said on Monday she would defend her son against the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government and that he was prepared for a heavy sentence.
"Two defence counsels are allowed...I will be one of them," Wang Lingyun, a 61-year-old researcher at a museum who has no background in law, told Reuters in an interview.
"Wang Dan also wants me to defend him," she said. Chinese laws allow accused to be defended by family members.
A court spokeswoman confirmed Wang Dan, 26, had been charged with plotting to overthrow the government but declined to give further details.
Wang Dan's mother said the court had yet to inform her of the trial date, but said it could come as early as this week.
The dissident, detained without charge since May 1995, met his mother for the first time under police surveillance at a detention centre in Beijing, the Hong Kong-based Information Centre of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China said.
"Wang Dan...was very calm and psychologically prepared for a heavy sentence," the group quoted the mother as saying. She added that she was worried about her son's health.
She told Reuters earlier that she would defend her son against the charge of collaborating with overseas subversive forces. "This charge does not stand up," she said, adding that Wang Dan had only taken a correspondence course at the University of California, Berkeley, in the United States.
"It has nothing to do with politics. I was the one who wanted him to attend the course...It has nothing to do with overthrowing the government," she said.
Asked to comment on the chances of winning the case, she said: "I'm not optimistic. But I must say it for the record. This will become history."
Relatives said last week they had found a lawyer willing to defend Wang after being given one day to find one.
The lawyer retained by the family would defend the dissident against other charges in the indictment.
Wang Dan, former leader of the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations, has been charged with the capital offence of plotting to subvert the government, based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad.
He was detained by police in a raid on his home in May 1995, but was not formally arrested or charged until last week.
On Friday, the family obtained a copy of the bill of indictment, which accused Wang Dan of plotting to subvert the government, a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death. The minimum sentence is 10 years, although the court can show leniency if it finds extenuating circumstances.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in the 1989 demonstrations centred in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, which were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
Wang had been expected to face new charges since last December, when the court that convicted veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng of plotting to overthrow the government also implicated the former student leader.
The court's verdict said Wei, who was jailed for 14 years, had links with people "convicted of counter-revolutionary crimes, including Wang Dan". It also referred to a tape-recorded conversation between Wang and Wei, but gave no details.
Wang had been active since his release from jail, defying persistent police surveillance and harassment to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
China's effort to push domestic investors out of foreign currency B shares on its stock markets has so far failed, but volumes on the B markets have fallen significantly, analysts said on Monday.
The official media on September 21 announced that local investors were banned from buying any more of the B shares listed on the Shenzhen and Shanghai stock exchanges and supposedly reserved for foreign investors.
Domestic investors, who in recent months have accounted for more than 50 percent of B share trading on both of China's stock exchanges, were told to sell their B share holdings as soon as possible.
But traders and analysts said local investors were still in the market and continued to be an important support for B share prices, which are dragging along at low levels.
"The ban on local people buying B shares has not been implemented very seriously, people can still buy them," said one trader. "But volumes have come down because of a fear that the authorities might make further measures to clean things up."
"Trading by domestic investors in B shares is still continuing," said a broker with China Guotai Securities. "Brokers find it difficult to check all identification cards when old faces turn up."
B share trading volumes on both the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges have dropped significantly since the ban was announced, and many analysts believe the market could collapse altogether if the authorities seriously press home the ban.
Foreign investors took advantage of a surge in domestic B share buying in the middle of this year to dump their shares and get out of the market, particularly in Shenzhen.
Beijing authorities are unhappy about this largely due to a fear of a serious outflow of foreign exchange if foreign investors are allowed to sell their B shares to local people, analysts say.
A Shenzhen stock analyst said he felt the ban on domestic investors buying and holding B shares would not be pushed through with any greater vigour and would anyway be relaxed after the return of Hong Kong to China in mid-1997.
"I would forecast that by the second half of next year, the B share market in Shenzhen will be gradually opened up to domestic investors," the analyst with Guotai Securities said.
"By that time, Hong Kong will be back as part of China, and the Hong Kong dollar will be a Chinese currency," he added.
B shares listed in the southern city of Shenzhen adjacent to Hong Kong are denominated in Hong Kong dollars.
A trader with Nanfang Securities said he expected further big changes to policy on the B shares markets over the next year leading to a second, and this time officially-approved, relaxation of restrictions on domestic investment in B shares.
"The B share market will undergo significant changes by the second half of next year. By then, it will be easier and easier for Guangdong people to get hold of Hong Kong dollars," the analyst said.
"By the end of next year, Shenzhen B shares should at least be open to investors in Guangdong," he added.
The Shanghai B share index closed on Monday at 48.588, up a fractional 0.302, in sluggish trading, while the Shenzhen B share index closed at 89.79, down 0.10, also in slow trade.
Hong Kong-based freight forwarding company U-Freight Holdings Limited is considering opening an office in Guangzhou to take advantage of China Southern Airlines' growing international network, U-Freight managing director Anthony Fong said.
Until now, U-Freight's Chinese operations which started nine years ago have been concentrated in the north with freight forwarding operations in Beijing, Dalian and Shanghai, Fong said. U-Freight's new US$2 million, 4,200 square meter warehouse near Shanghai airport is on schedule for completion in December and Fong said he sees new potential just across the border from Hong Kong where the company was established 28 years ago.
"If Guangzhou is to have foreign flights then eventually other foreign carriers will fly into Guangzhou. It should save the trouble of trucking cargo down from Guangzhou to Hong Kong and we are investigating opening an office there," Fong said.
Industry observers said Guangzhou-based China Southern has invested in a new fleet of Boeing 777 aircraft to begin transcontinental services to Europe and the west coast of the USA and U-Freight is among a group of many well known freight forwarders who are eyeing the potential new market. Recent Hong Kong press reports said China Southern is starting a Guangzhou-Beijing-Amsterdam service next month and planning additional services to Los Angeles and Brisbane next year. No one at China Southern could be contacted for confirmation.
"We are just awaiting a start date for China Southern's new trans-Pacific flight," Fong told Reuters in an interview here.
Fong said the licensing procedure to start operations, especially to gain a Class one licence which allows freight forwarders to hold a stock of airway bills, will take time and patience.
"A proper licence in Shanghai took three years to achieve so it is early days yet but we would like to go into Guangzhou and a first step would be to set up a liaison office in the near future," Fong added. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Japan will set up a panel on Tuesday to tackle the after-effects of the nation's problem loans -- collection of bad loans in the form of land collateral, government sources said on Monday.
The panel will discuss wide-ranging steps to increase liquidity in the real estate market to facilitate collection of such problem loans, a government source said.
"The central issue for the panel will be studying measures to collect problem loans in the form of land collateral run up by (failed) 'jusen' mortgage firms,"  he said.
"We think securitisation of the problem loans is one effective measure to collect problem loans," he also said.
Officials from the ministries of finance, construction and justice and the National Land Agency will join the panel, along with officials from the Deposit Insurance Corp of Japan, a semi-governmental body set up to protect depositors from bank failures.
The Housing Loan Administration Corp (HLAC), in charge of recovering the problem loans of failed mortgage firms, known as "jusen", and the Resolution and Collection Bank (RCB), which will perform a similar task for troubled credit unions, will also send officials to join the panel.
Officials are now finally aware they must take steps to stimulate the real estate market from a budgetary standpoint, said Yoshinobu Yamada, analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan.
HLAC was set up in July to recover the problem loans of seven failed mortgage firms over the next 15 years. But the government says further losses may arise and that half of any future losses will be covered by public money.
In June, the government adopted a controversial scheme that allows for the use of 685 billion yen ($6.17 billion) in taxpayers' money to help wind up the failed mortgage firms.
The government has also committed itself to meeting any potential shortfalls at the Resolution and Collection Bank with government funds.
The bank was established last month to manage the holdings of failed credit unions and collect their problem loans. The government has given the bank a 10-year period to bail out credit unions and aims to disband the bank thereafter.
Some analysts said, however, that it would be tough for the ministries to agree on steps to boost the sagging real estate market, now in a five-year-long slump following the bursting of the 1980s "bubble economy" of inflated asset prices.
For instance, Japan may have to allocate budget funds for public utilisation of assets put up as collateral for problem loans, analysts said. The government should also adopt a flexible taxation system to help securitise problem loans backed by real estate, they said.
Securitising the loans involves selling property to a new special-purpose company, which in turn will issue bonds backed by these assets to procure money. Investors in the bonds would profits from any rise in land prices and from rent income.
The number of investors in Japan is still limited due to fears of further drops in land prices, and financial institutions themselves are reluctant to sell collateralised land at the currently cheap market prices, analysts said.
But Yukiko Ohara, an analyst at UBS Securities, said the setting up of a panel to discuss this dilemma is an important first step. "It is better than nothing."
Securitisation worked well in the United States when the U.S. Resolution Trust Corp tried to recover bad debts following the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s. ($1=111 yen)
Asian traders raised their eyebrows on Monday at reports that China had bought hundreds of thousands of tonnes of soybean oil, saying authorities had issued import licences for only a fraction of that.
"Total quota issued (for soybean oil imports) were a little over 100,000 tonnes," a trader in Shanghai said.
"People with quota are not in a hurry to import," he said, because c&amp;f (cost and freight) prices to China were still too high for local buyers.
A Chinese trader in Hong Kong concurred, saying high domestic stocks and a near-record domestic rapeseed crop of eight million tonnes meant there was as yet no demand in China for imported vegetable oil.
Rumours swept the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) on Friday that China may have bought 173,000 to 200,000 tonnes of South American soybean oil in the previous few days.
Argentine soybean oil was trading on Thursday at US$500 a tonne FOB (free on board) for October delivery while U.S. soybean oil was $510 a tonne, sources in the U.S. said.
Asian traders said these levels were still a good $40 away from prices Chinese buyers would be willing to pay.
But an official of Beijing's food trading arm China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import Export Corp (COFCO) told Reuters China had not yet issued new soybean oil quota or import licences for 1996.
Quotas for 1995 had expired at the end of June, she said. Palm oil import quotas had been issued in July, she said, but declined to give more details.
China could come into the market for vegetable oil late in 1996 or early in 1997 to make sure there was enough in stock for Chinese New Year in February, traders said.
A Chinese source said 140,000 tonnes of soyoil import licences were issued by central authorities in August.
He said 50,000 tonnes of soyoil had already been imported on that quota, and 40,000 tonnes of quota had been allocated to Tibet so licences could be sold there for cash.
Authorities in Tibet, contacted by telephone, said they were unaware of this.
One trading house source in the region reported a busy day on the telephone on Monday, fielding Chinese inquiries for soybean oil. He thought perhaps this was an indication quota had been issued.
Relevant officials with the Ministry of Agriculture could not be immediately reached for comment.
An executive with an international marketing organisation who met Shanghai grain bureau officials last week said they had no indication of when import quotas for vegetable oil would be issued.
"They said they were going to apply for licences, but they had no idea when they were likely to be issued," she said by telephone.
Prices quoted last Thursday by the National Grains and Oils Information Centre in Shanghai put grade one soybean oil in northeastern Jilin province at 7,000 yuan ($843) a tonne, and grade two in Tianjin at 7,200 yuan ($867) a tonne.
Freight information from Brazil details 18,000 tonnes of vegetable oil due to be loaded for China in early October. No other details were available.
Soyoil imported into China without an import licence carries a 120 percent import tax. Importers with licences must pay 13 percent import duty and a 13 percent value-added tax on top of that.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Chrysler Corp. said Monday it rode strong sales of its pickup trucks, minivans and sport/utility vehicles to a 92 percent jump in third-quarter profits, soundly beating Wall Street's optimistic forecasts.
Detroit's No. 3 automaker earned $680 million, or 93 cents a share, in the July-September period, setting records for both net income and earnings per share for the third quarter.
A year earlier, when Chrysler was struggling through the slow production launch of its current-generation minivans, the company earned just $354 million, or 45 cents a share.
"Chrysler's performance in the third quarter was outstanding," Chairman Robert Eaton said in a statement. "It was fuelled by record-setting demand for our products, which led to a new third-quarter U.S. retail unit sales record and produced the best model year for U.S. retail unit sales in the company's history."
The results included an after-tax charge of $55 million, or 7 cents a share, to cover costs of an early retirement programme. About 531 salaried employees opted to leave the company under the programme during the quarter.
Excluding the charge, Chrysler earned $735 million, or $1 a share, from operations, solidly exceeding Wall Street estimates. According to First Call, which tracks earnings estimates, analysts had expected Chrysler to earn about $520 million, or 71 cents a share.
Chrysler shares jumped $1 to $32.75 after touching $33 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"I think it was all in the sales mix," Burnham Securities analyst David Healy said of Chrysler's strong performance. "They've raised prices and the mix has shifted to trucks. They're selling not so many Neons and a lot more Jeep Grand Cherokees and Town &amp; Country minivans."
Indeed, light trucks -- which typically carry higher profit margins than passenger cars -- made up 66 percent of Chrysler's sales mix, versus 62 percent in the 1995 quarter. The automaker had full availability of its new minivans, and a St. Louis plant that had just started building Dodge Ram pickup trucks in August 1995 is now churning the vehicles out.
Chrysler earned a profit of $982 on each vehicle in the quarter, almost double the $492 earned per vehicle a year earlier. Incentive spending fell to $685 per vehicle from $870 a year ago, but was up from $625 in the second quarter.
Chrysler Chief Financial Officer Gary Valade said he expected similar conditions in the fourth quarter, and added that Chrysler next year plans another big increase in truck-building capacity.
He told reporters on a conference call that the automaker will be able to build 190,000 more trucks in 1997 than in 1996, including the launch of a new Dodge sport/utility vehicle at Chrysler's Newark, Del., plant.
The four-door vehicle is expected to be based on the new Dodge Dakota pickup truck that Chrysler is launching and will give Dodge dealers their first sport/utility vehicle since the two-door Ram Charger was discontinued in 1993.
Valade said Chrysler will end the year with about 16.2 percent of the North American car and light truck market, but cautioned the company will be prudent when adding capacity.
"We don't feel ourselves share constrained at this 16 percent share level, but neither are we hell-bent to get to 20 (percent) at any cost," he said.
Sales climbed to $14.4 billion, a third-quarter record and up 20 percent from $12.0 billion in the 1995 quarter.
The automaker said it shipped 650,529 cars and trucks, up from 581,853 in the year-ago period, boosting its share of the combined U.S. and Canadian retail car and truck market to 15.5 percent from 13.6 percent in the third quarter of 1995.
In the international market, Chrysler's retail sales were 57,209 vehicles, up 19 percent over the 48,207 vehicles it sold in the third quarter of 1995.
In Europe, Chrysler vehicle sales rose 28 percent.
The automaker said it bought back $452 million of its common stock in the quarter, bringing the total for 1996 to $1.6 billion, out of a $2 billion programme. The company bought back $1 billion worth of stock in 1995 and under its five-year peace accord with billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, has pledged to buy back another $1 billion in 1997.
For the nine months, earnings were $2.72 billion, or $3.65 a share, nearly triple the $985 million, or $1.28 a share, in the first nine months of 1995.
Archer Daniels Midland Co. Monday said it agreed to plead guilty to two counts of federal charges of price fixing in the sale of agricultural products and to pay record fines totalling $100 million.
Under the agreement, which is subject to court approval, ADM will pay $70 million to settle a charge of fixing prices for lysine, a feed additive for livestock, and $30 million in connection with citric acid, a food and beverage additive.
While the $100 million in fines were the largest ever in a criminal antitrust action, they will have only a minimal financial impact on the Decatur, Ill.-based agricultural products giant.
"This is not going to affect their balance sheet in any meaningful way," said NatWest Securities analyst David Nelson.
ADM has about $1.3 billion in cash and short-term securities on hand and another $1.1 billion in long-term securities it could sell if it needed to, analysts said.
But the settlement left unclear the fate of two top ADM executives who had been expected to face indictments in the government's four-year investigation of price-fixing for the food additives.
In a statement, ADM did not mention Vice Chairman Michael Andreas or Terrance Wilson, a group vice president in charge of corn refining. The additives are derived from corn.
ADM had said in a proxy statement that indictments in the lysine probe were being considered against Wilson and Andreas, the son of ADM Chairman Dwayne Andreas.
"That's intriguing, that there is no mention (of) the individuals," said antitrust attorney Joe Sims, a partner in the Washington office of Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue who is not involved in the ADM antitrust case.
Sims called the wording of ADM's statement "ambiguous."
A government source said the Justice Department's antitrust investigation was "ongoing." Department officials declined to comment.
ADM did not return a phone call requesting comment on the status of possible indictments against the executives.
In its statement, ADM said the agreement brought an end to the government probe into "alleged misconduct" by the company, including its practices in the market for high-fructose corn syrup, a widely used sweetener that is one of ADM's most important products.
Analysts said the high-fructose corn syrup case could have been the biggest potential liabilty for ADM, given the size of that market. ADM previously settled civil cases brought by its customers and agreed to pay $25 million in the lysine case and $35 million to buyers of its citric acid.
A civil case brought by high-fructose corn syrup customers is pending.
"The important news here is just that the criminal investigation is behind them," said Bonnie Wittenburg, an analyst at Dain Bosworth, a Minneapolis-based brokerage.
Investors reacted positively to the settlement and sent ADM shares up 75 cents to $21.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, a 52-week high.
The federal probe of alleged price-fixing in the food and feed additive markets was first disclosed by ADM in June 1995. At that time, ADM said it was subpoenaed for documents and testimony as part of a probe of the lysine, citric acid and high-fructose corn syrup markets.
A former ADM executive, Mark Whitacre, acted as a government informant for about three years in the investigation. Whitacre, who was president of ADM's BioProducts Division, was fired in August 1995 when the company accused him of stealing $9.5 million.
Whitacre has denied those charges and has said he plans to file a wrongful dismissal lawsuit against ADM.
ADM said the plea agreement resulted from negotiations between Justice Department officials and a special committee of seven independent board members.
ADM said the special committee was created in 1995 to respond to the department's investigation into ADM's alleged anti-competitive activity and related civil litigation.
Analysts also said the fate of Michael Andreas was not expected to impact the succession at ADM. "That issue was settled a long time ago. Mick is not a successor," said George Dahlman at Piper Jaffray, a Minneapolis-based brokerage, referring to Michael Andreas.
In an interview in January, Dwayne Andreas said he believed there were eight people who might succeed him some day, including his son. But he said at the time there was no succession plan at the company. ADM's proxy statement lists Dwayne Andreas' age at 78.
Archer Daniels Midland Co's $100 million agreement with the U.S. Justice Department will likely have minimal financial impact on the agribusiness giant, which has about $1.3 billion on hand.
"This is not going to affect their balance sheet in any meaningful way," said NatWest Securities analyst David Nelson.
But the settlement leaves unclear for the moment the fate of two top ADM executives, who had been expected to face indictments in a nearly four-year antitrust investigation into lysine, citric acid and high fructose corn syrup.  
ADM had said in a proxy statement in advance of its October 17 annual meeeting that indictments in the lysine probe were being considered against the company, Michael Andreas, vice chairman, and Terrance Wilson, a group vice president in charge of corn refining.
A government source, however, said the investigation is "ongoing."
ADM did not return a phone call requesting comment on the status of possible indictments against the executives. The Justice Department declined comment.  
"That's intriguing, that there is no mention (of) the individuals," said antitrust attorney Joe Sims, a partner in the Washington office of Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue. Sims is not involved in the ADM antitrust case.
While the $100 million in fines is a record for Justice in an antitrust case, analysts said ADM has an estimated $1.3 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and marketable securities. The company has another $1.1 billion in long-term marketable securities.
ADM agreed to pay $70 million to settle antitrust charges for lysine and $30 million for citric acid.  
Beyond those two products, the settlement also puts an end to Justice's antitrust probe of high fructose corn syrup, a widely used sweetener. ADM did not pay any fines for this product, which posed the largest potential liability given the size of that market.
Previously, ADM settled civil cases brought by its customers and agreed to pay $25 million for lysine, a feed additive, and $35 million for citric acid, which is used in food and beverages.
A civil case brought by a class of high fructose corn syrup customers is pending.  
"The important news here is just that the criminal investigation is behind them," Dain Bosworth analyst Bonnie Wittenburg said.
The fate of Michael Andreas, son of Chairman Dwayne Andreas, is not expected to impact succession at the Decatur, Ill.-based company.
Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman said analysts have ruled Michael Andreas out for the chairman's post since he has been expected to face price-fixing charges.
In an interview in January, however, Dwayne Andreas said he believed there were eight people who could possibly succeed him some day, including his son. He said at the time there was no current succession plan at ADM.
The stock market reacted positively to the settlement, sending ADM's stock up 3/4 to a new 52-week high of 21-3/8. ADM's stock has also been bolstered in recent weeks by lower corn prices that have improved its grain-processing margins.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
French utilities giant Compagnie Generale des Eaux posted on Monday higher first half profits and unveiled plans to reorganise its loss-making construction business, hammered by a depressed French market.
Chairman Jean-Marie Messier told a news conference the company made first half net profit of 808 million francs, after payment to minorities, up from 224 million a year ago.
He also forecast net profit for the full year 1996 would be about 1.8 billion francs, compared with a net loss of 3.69 billion francs a year ago. The results would be "strongly marked by exceptional items, notably capital gains from asset sales," he added.
For 1997, Messier expected profits to be "much higher" than those of 1996 and should be "without doubt higher than the best profits the company has had in its history." The company made 3.4 billion francs net profit in 1994.
Messier also announced Generale des Eaux had made a formal bid on Monday with its German partner Mannesmann AG to run the telecommunications operations of French state railways SNCF. The two companies want to bring British Telecom to join the bid.
Messier, who came from an investment bank, was brought in last year to clear out the group's balance sheet which had put on more than 50 billion francs of debt and been savaged by a crisis in the property market and construction business.
His first step last year was to reorganise the property arm, which he said on Monday had cost the group a total 15 billion francs since 1994.
The group expects to lose 4.6 billion francs this year due to poor property assets but that includes three billion francs of exceptional charges which should wipe out any uncertainty for the next three years, he said.
"At the end of 1996, Generale des Eaux will not face any questions, even in pessimistic scenarios for the next three years, on any exceptional charges which may arise from its property activities," he said.
The group's George V property development arm aims to be profitable from 1997, he said.
The group's average level of property provisioning was around 55-56 percent, of which assets in the south of France were provisioned at 65-70 percent and 85 percent at Cannes.
This time round, Messier attacked the group's building and public works businesses which have suffered from the downturn in France and Germany. He has made its SGE subsidiary the centre of its construction activity.
The GTIE and Santerne electrical installations units and roadbuilders Cochery, Viafrance and SGE-VBU will be brought into SGE. And there will be a consolidation of building activity with SGE buying 40 percent of Compagnie Generale de Batiment et de Construction (CBC), currently wholly owned by CGE.
The new SGE, which will be "radically different and attractive," will have annual sales of 52 billion francs and will return to a "significant level" of profit in 1997, Messier said.
Generale des Eaux also expects to cut its debt by about 10 to 15 billion francs in 1997. It said it expected its net financial debt to stand at 53 billion francs at the end of 1996, down from 54 billion in 1995.
Messier said the company's operating profit would be close to the 3.7 billion franc profit recorded in 1994.
Turnover in 1996 should be up three percent to 164 billion francs, he added.
France is deregulating the telecommunications regime in 1998, breaking the domestic monopoly of state-owned France Telecom to comply with European Union rules.
Australia's Foster's Brewing Group Ltd. said Monday it was thirsty for expansion and eyeing possible joint ventures in India and Vietnam to add to its brewery holdings around the world.
Foster's executives said at the group's annual meeting in Melbourne that despite hiccups at its Canadian and Chinese operations, the company was well positioned to seize on growth opportunities both overseas and at home.
"The first priority after satisfying the cash needs of the current businesses is to seek out new direct investment opportunities with the right return profile," Chief Executive Officer Ted Kunkel told shareholders.
"Should that not fully utilize the available financial resources, then we would look at additional options," he said.
Foster's Chairman John Ralph said the group was considering joint venture breweries in Vietnam and India but said it was looking at a wide range of possible investments, including acquisitions. Asia was a major focus, he added.
He declined to give details but said the Vietnamese opportunity involved an existing plant.
"There's nothing immediate but we are looking across all the areas of our business in fact," Ralph told reporters.
"We are involved in looking at a couple of opportunities, but it's early days. Provided we can see it makes sense for us, and we can do it on a basis that's going to earn a satisfactory return, then we are likely to move," he said.
Foster's, which has breweries in Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangdong in China, said the Chinese operations would break even or turn a profit in the fiscal year ending in 1999. Foster's China posted a loss of A$17 million (US$13 million) before interest and tax in the latest year.
The group's 40-percent owned Canadian brewer, Molson Breweries, also performed poorly in its fiscal year that ended on April 1, but has undergone a major restructuring and is focusing on building market share at home, Foster's said.
Kunkel said Molson still delivered a high return on invested capital and forecast higher operating profits from the group's powerhouse Australian brewing unit, Carlton and United Breweries, over the medium term.
Foster's is also counting on higher returns from its British pub chain, the Inntrepreneur Pub Company Ltd., putting the group in a stong position to pursue growth, Kunkel said.
Kunkel identified Asia as the most attractive region for investment, noting beer volumes there surged 60 percent in the first half of the 1990s and were forecast to rise another 40 percent before the turn of the century.
"Access can be achieved at a sufficiently low cost and the return profile is sufficiently better therefore than in other growing markets such as South America," he said.
Foster's has allocated A$200 million ($153 million) for direct investments in Asian markets, deeming this "prudent exposure."
The group has spent four years shedding unwanted assets, lightening the burden of debt accumulated in the 1980s when it was part of the sprawling conglomerate known as Elders-IXL Ltd.
French utilities giant Compagnie Generale des Eaux on Monday posted higher first half profits and unveiled plans to reorganise its loss-making construction business, hammered by a depressed French market.
Chairman Jean-Marie Messier told a news conference the company made a first half net profit of 808 million French francs ($155.9 million), after payment to minorities, up from 224 million a year ago.
He also forecast net profit for the full year 1996 would be about 1.8 billion francs after a net loss the year before of 3.69 billion francs. The results would be "strongly marked by exceptional items, notably capital gains from asset sales."
For 1997, Messier expected profits to be "much higher" than those of 1996 and should be "without doubt higher than the best profits the company has had in its history." The company made 3.4 billion francs net profit in 1994.
Messier also announced Generale des Eaux said it had made a formal bid on Monday with its German partner Mannesmann to run the telecommunications operations of French state railways SNCF. The two companies want to bring British Telecom to join the bid.
Messier, who came from an investment bank, was brought in last year to clear out the group's balance sheet which had put on more than 50 billion francs of debt and been savaged by a crisis in the property market and construction business.
His first step last year was to reorganise the property arm, which he said on Monday had cost the group a total 15 billion francs since 1994.
The group expects to lose 4.6 billion francs this year due to poor property assets but that includes three billion francs of exceptional charges which should wipe out any uncertainty for the next three years, he said.
"At the end of 1996, Generale des Eaux will not face any questions, even in pessimistic scenarios for the next three years, on any exceptional charges which may arise from its property activities," he said.
The group's George V property development arm aims to be profitable from 1997, he said.
The group's average level of property provisioning was around 55-56 percent, of which assets in the South of France were provisioned at 65-70 percent and 85 percent at Cannes.
This time round, Messier attacked the group's building and public works businesses which have suffered from the downturn in France and Germany. He has made its SGE subsidiary the centre of its construction activity.
Into SGE will go the GTIE and Santerne electrical installations units and roadbuilders Cochery, Viafrance and SGE-VBU. And there will be a consolidation of building activity with SGE buying 40 percent of Compagnie Generale de Batiment et de Construction (CBC), currently wholly owned by CGE.
The new SGE, which will be "radically different and attractive," have annual sales of 52 billion francs and will return to a significant level of profit in 1997, Messier said.
Generale des Eaux also expects to cut its debt by about 10 to 15 billion francs in 1997. It said it expected its net financial debt to stand at 53 billion francs at the end of 1996, down from 54 billion in 1995.
He said the company's operating profit would be close to the 3.7 billion franc profit recorded in 1994.
Turnover in 1996 should be up three percent to 164 billion francs, he added.
France is deregulating its telecommunications in 1998, breaking the domestic monopoly of state-owned France Telecom to comply with European Union rules. ($1=5.182 French Franc)
Archer Daniels Midland Co. Monday said it agreed to plead guilty to two counts of federal charges of price fixing in the sale of agricultural products and to pay record fines totaling $100 million.
Under the agreement, which is subject to court approval, ADM will pay $70 million to settle a charge of fixing prices for lysine, a feed additive for livestock, and $30 million in connection with citric acid, a food and beverage additive.
While the $100 million in fines were the largest ever in a criminal antitrust action, they will have only a minimal financial impact on the Decatur, Ill.-based agricultural products giant.
"This is not going to affect their balance sheet in any meaningful way," said NatWest Securities analyst David Nelson.
ADM has about $1.3 billion in cash and short-term securities on hand and another $1.1 billion in long-term securities it could sell if it needed to, analysts said.
But the settlement left unclear the fate of two top ADM executives who had been expected to face indictments in the government's four-year investigation of price-fixing for the food additives.
In a statement, ADM did not mention Vice Chairman Michael Andreas or Terrance Wilson, a group vice president in charge of corn refining. The additives are derived from corn.
ADM had said in a proxy statement that indictments in the lysine probe were being considered against Wilson and Andreas, the son of ADM Chairman Dwayne Andreas.
"That's intriguing, that there is no mention (of) the individuals," said antitrust attorney Joe Sims, a partner in the Washington office of Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue who is not involved in the ADM antitrust case.
Sims called the wording of ADM's statement "ambiguous."
A government source said the Justice Department's antitrust investigation was "ongoing." Department officials declined to comment.
ADM did not return a phone call requesting comment on the status of possible indictments against the executives.
In its statement, ADM said the agreement brought an end to the government probe into "alleged misconduct" by the company, including its practices in the market for high-fructose corn syrup, a widely used sweetener that is one of ADM's most important products.
Analysts said the high-fructose corn syrup case could have been the biggest potential liabilty for ADM, given the size of that market. ADM previously settled civil cases brought by its customers and agreed to pay $25 million in the lysine case and $35 million to buyers of its citric acid.
A civil case brought by high-fructose corn syrup customers is pending.
"The important news here is just that the criminal investigation is behind them," said Bonnie Wittenburg, an analyst at Dain Bosworth, a Minneapolis-based brokerage.
Investors reacted positively to the settlement and sent ADM shares up 75 cents to $21.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, a 52-week high.
The federal probe of alleged price-fixing in the food and feed additive markets was first disclosed by ADM in June 1995. At that time, ADM said it was subpoenaed for documents and testimony as part of a probe of the lysine, citric acid and high-fructose corn syrup markets.
A former ADM executive, Mark Whitacre, acted as a government informant for about three years in the investigation. Whitacre, who was president of ADM's BioProducts Division, was fired in August 1995 when the company accused him of stealing $9.5 million.
Whitacre has denied those charges and has said he plans to file a wrongful dismissal lawsuit against ADM.
ADM said the plea agreement resulted from negotiations between Justice Department officials and a special committee of seven independent board members.
ADM said the special committee was created in 1995 to respond to the department's investigation into ADM's alleged anti-competitive activity and related civil litigation.
Analysts also said the fate of Michael Andreas was not expected to impact the succession at ADM. "That issue was settled a long time ago. Mick is not a successor," said George Dahlman at Piper Jaffray, a Minneapolis-based brokerage, referring to Michael Andreas.
In an interview in January, Dwayne Andreas said he believed there were eight people who might succeed him some day, including his son. But he said at the time there was no succession plan at the company. ADM's proxy statement lists Dwayne Andreas' age at 78.
English football champions Manchester United extended their outstanding recent stock market form on Monday as renewed bid speculation sent the share price soaring by over 10 percent for the second straight session.
The latest gains were by a weekend report in the Sunday Express that American Mark McCormack's IMG marketing agency was considering a bid for United.
"We never make comments on unsubstantiated press stories," said an official at IMG's London office. But he said that IMG, most active in sports such as tennis and golf, was interested in increasing its involvement in football.
Earlier this year IMG lost out to sportwear company Adidas in a battle for control of former French football champions Olympique Marseille.
The Express report said that any credible bid for United would have to be pitched at around 650-700 pence per share, valuing the club at around 430 million pounds ($678 million).
United shares rocketed again on Monday, rising 54.5p to 568p, valuing the club at around 350 million pounds.
The share price has virtually trebled since the start of the year and added almost 25 percent in the last two sessions alone.
The latest winning run was triggered when chief executive Martin Edwards said last week that United's status as Britain's most profitable soccer club made it a likely bid target.
Publishing group VCI is reported to have made a 300 million pound bid for United earlier this year which was rejected.
Analysts say that United would be an attractive target for media companies, citing the U.S example of television mogul Ted Turner who owns the Atlanta Braves baseball team.
The potential income from pay-per-view television deals is also helping to drive the share price and may make United's main shareholders think twice about selling now.
"The directors own 22 percent of the club...They can sit back for five years and enjoy the football and then enjoy the benefits when the really big money comes in from pay-per-view," said Vinay Bedi of brokerage Wise Speke.
Pay-per-view is expected to be introduced by the end of the century and could allow leading clubs such as United to earn tens of millions of pounds annually from television.
Focus on such juicy future pickings also lifted shares in Tottenham Hotspur, the other Premier League club with a full London Stock Exchange listing. They added 11p to 461p.
United, who last season won the coveted English league and F.A. Cup double, had television income of 5.7 million pounds in 1995-96 when the club made a profit of 15.4 million before tax.
A new contract between the Premier League and satellite broadcaster BSkyB will mean that United's television income should treble to around 15 million pounds from next year. ($1=.6337 Pound)
Scotch whisky maker Highland Distilleries posted a 14 percent fall in its full year profits on Monday, saying sales of its brand leader The Famous Grouse blend fell in Britain and the home market remained tough.
"The UK continues to be a very competitive market. However there are indications that prices are moving up with more emphasis being given to brand building activities," it said.
Pretax profits fell to 37.1 million pounds ($58.43 million) in the year ended August 31, 1996 down 14 percent. Before reorganisation costs, profits were flat at 36.5 million pounds, below the market forecast range of 39.2 million to 42.5 million. Highland's shares fell 10p to 332p in early trade.
The British market for Scotch whisky fell by four percent, despite a cut in excise duty in the November 1995 Budget, while sales of The Famous Grouse fell by three percent.
"These results illustrate the problem Highland has got; the fact it still makes about 60 percent of its profits out of Famous Grouse sales in the UK where the market continues to be very competitive," said BZW analyst Charles Winston.
In the England and Wales off trade, which represents 65 percent of the home market, the Famous Grouse market share rose 0.5 percent to 9.3 percent.
However, sales in the on-trade or in pubs and restaurants remained tough and The Famous Grouse share fell by one percentage point. But overall market share for The Famous Grouse rose slightly to 13.3 percent.
Overall export sales of The Famous Grouse were up five percent and sales in Europe rose 13 percent, with strong performances in France, Greece and the Netherlands, although conditions were more difficult in Asia.
Single malt whiskies continued to grow both at home and overseas with Highland's key brands, Highland Park from Orkney and Bunnahabhain from Islay, up 12 percent on a global basis.
Profits from associate Robertson &amp; Baxter fell nine percent to about 10 million pounds mainly because of increased advertising behind the Cutty Sark brand.
Sales of new and mature whiskies to blenders have grown considerably with new filling orders for the calendar year 1996 up by 31 percent.
The interest charge rose by 2.8 million pounds mainly due to the cost of carrying a 26 percent shareholding in distiller Macallan-Glenlivet Plc from January 1996.
Highland and Suntory, Japan's leading Whisky distiller, already owned 51 percent of Macallan but decided in July to pay up to 88 million pounds to take control of the remaining 49 percent.
Highland argues that the Macallan malt whisky brand has substantial growth potential.
Highland reported an exceptional charge of 3.0 million pounds in the year to cover reorganisation costs at Macallan and Macallan bid defence costs. ($1=.6350 Sterling)
Shares in Premier Farnell dipped on Monday after the newly enlarged electronic components distributor posted half-year profits slightly below expectations.
Premier Farnell was created in April when Britain's Farnell Electronics completed a $2.8 billion takeover of America's Premier Industrial Corp -- a company twice its size.
Pre-tax profit for the six months to July 28 totalled 56.1 million pounds ($88.4 million). That was down on the pre-tax figure of 71.3 million pounds a year earlier but that had been flattered by a large one-off gain.
More pertinently, analysts had forecast profit in a range of 57.5 to 61.6 million pounds and the failure to reach that level was reflected in a 10.5p decline in the share price to 670p.
The company said that the market for electronic components has shown much lower levels of growth in 1996 than in recent years and added it did not expect any major change in conditions for the rest of the year.
"I think the evidence is we've bottomed the cycle and the signs at the moment are positive. But we are planning on a more conservative basis at this moment in time," chief executive Howard Poulson told Reuters.
Premier said its priorities were the development and international expansion of the catalogue business and further exploitation of synergies between its transatlantic operations.
Poulson said he was delighted with progress on integration following an acquisition which had transformed the company, based in the northern English town of Wetherby, into the third largest electronic components distributor in the world.
"The integration is going superbly..I am very pleased with what people have done on both sides of the Atlantic," he said.
He said he did not see any further scope for cutting costs following the acquisition.
"I think we've finished with all of the cost-cutting. This was never a deal which was built on reducing overheads and getting rid of people," he said.
"We said we would remove duplication in our two head offices -- we've done that, we've probably dropped about 150 people since we made the acquisition." The company now has some 6,500 staff, 4,000 of whom are in the United States.
"What the business is about now is building sales and building our profits that way," he added.
Premier Farnell said its sales expansion projects were on schedule and should begin to make a contribution in the fourth quarter of the year. REUTER
($1=.6350 Pound)
Coupon clipping is coming to cyberspace.
SaveSmart Inc., a start-up company based in Mountain View, Calif., plans to unveil on Monday a credit card-based scheme to allow computer users to browse for and take advantage of bargains offered by a wide range of local, regional and national merchants.
Consumers will be able to qualify for automated discounts on groceries, dining out, movies, clothing, furniture and auto repairs, among other items.
The company said that using its special credit card eliminates the inconvenience and inefficency of paper-based promotional coupons delivered in newspapers or by direct mail. Industry figures show that only about 2 percent of paper coupons are actually redeemed.
SaveSmart said the service dramatically enhances sales promotions by making it easier for consumers to find and use them, while making them cost-effective for merchants to offer.
"We are driving physical traffic into the merchants' stores," said Bernard David, SaveSmart's executive vice president of business development.
Advertising analysts said the new interactive promotion service could play a key role in transforming the industry, which generates about $120 billion a year, according to the media research firm of Veronis, Suhler and Associates.
"All Web promotions need to be attractive in the real world, not just the virtual world of cyberspace," said Mary Doyle, a Web marketing analyst for IDC/Link Resources.
What differentiates SaveSmart from thousands of other Internet-based commerce efforts is the linkage the service makes between computer users and actual businesses, she said.
The company's Web site -- www.savesmart.com -- offers an online database of merchant promotions personalized to fit the individual's interests.
Consumers can browse through promotional offerings and when they find a promotion they want, "select" it and reserve it. They can then redeem the promotion by presenting the SaveSmart card at a merchant's store at the time of purchase.
SaveSmart targets what it describes as "neighborhood trading areas" of roughly 100,000 people.
The service will be launched Monday in the area around Palo Alto, Calif., with service expanding to include the entire San Francisco Bay Area by the end of the year.
In 1997, the company plans to roll the system out in 10 additional U.S. cities where Internet use is most heavily concentrated, including Boston, New York, Washington D.C./Baltimore and Orange County, just south of Los Angeles.
The company said it plans a coordinated direct marketing campaign in each city where the service is introduced to sign up individual card members using mail and newspaper ads.
In addition, SaveSmart said it has been successful in promoting the card as an employee benefit offered by large computer companies.
"Our target is to have tens of thousands of SaveSmart members within each neighbourhood trading area," David said, adding that he expected to meet that goal in SaveSmart's first service areas "within a couple of months, to be quite frank."
To date, SaveSmart said it has signed up 400 merchants, representing a cross-section of locally available goods and services. McDonald's, Domino's Pizza and Subway Sandwiches are participating. In addition, it has agreed to a deal with at least one major movie studio, which it declined to name.
While the system would appear to be a threat to traditional promotional outlets like direct mail marketers and newspaper publishers, SaveSmart said it is working with one leading U.S. household direct marketer and that there is nothing to preclude it from linking up with news publishers.
David said SaveSmart would also make a logical fit with local telephone companies, but declined to say whether the company had reached any such agreements.
The company, which has about 30 employees,. was founded by executives from VeriFone Inc. and other Silicon Valley computer firms. VeriFone is a leading global supplier of merchant credit card transaction terminals.
SaveSmart provides special VeriFone-built terminals to merchants using its credit-card system.
Company officials said SaveSmart is designed to leave open the possibility that the system could be adopted by a major credit card company, so that consumers could use their normal credit card to conduct SaveSmart transactions.
The company has held talks with major credit card companies, but there are no deals to announce, officials said.
SaveSmart has not disclosed its financial backers. Industry consultants familiar with the company said they include Bill Melton, founder of VeriFone, and also CyberCash Inc., an Internet commerce company.
Other backers include members of Germany's Quandt family, who are ranked among the world's richest families, they said.
A decision on the fate of ailing airline Air Liberte is not due until the start of next week and no bidder has yet formally submitted an offer to acquire the company, the president of the Creteil commercial court said.
"At the moment, no bid has been submitted," Dominique Leveque told Reuters by telephone. He denied newspaper reports that there was a 1400 GMT deadline for the bids.
"Bids have to be in today. That can be this afternoon or this evening. We are not going to close the mailbox," Leveque said.
He said the court would on Tuesday afternoon at the earliest make a statement about the bid or bids. After that it would study the offers.
"According to the law we have six months to study the situation. But it is clear that the company's cash position cannot hold another six months," he said.
"We will do all we can but the court cannot decide in 48 hours," Leveque said, adding a decision was due at the start of next week at the earliest.
British Airways is preparing a bid for the regional airline, proposing to merge it with its French TAT unit.  
A spokesman for British Airways in London said the company feared the French government would like a French company to acquire Liberte to prevent BA or another foreign airline from obtaining the carrier and its valuable slots at Orly airport.
Air Liberte owns between 20 and 25 percent of the slots at Orly, Paris' second largest airport specialising in domestic routes, which represents 20,000 take-offs and landings per year.
Air Liberte lost 650 million francs in the first nine months of 1996 and has debts of 1.5 billion francs. The company was placed under bankruptcy protection on September 26 after merger talks with other French airline AOM failed.  
Jacques Maillot, head of French travel company Nouvelles Frontieres and charter airline Corsair, said he planned to bid for both Air Liberte and AOM.
AOM, formerly Air Outre-Mer, is being put on sale by the state agency Consortium de Realisation (CDR) which is divesting former Credit Lyonnais assets.
Richard Branson, chairman of Virgin Atlantic, said last week he might also bid for Air Liberte if BA did so. But a Virgin executive told Le Monde on Monday that the company was not yet sure whether a bid for Air Liberte was the best way to develop its business in France.  
Air Liberte is owned 32.3 percent by Groupe Rivaud. Banque Indosuez has 13 percent, International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC) 12 percent, Euralair 10 percent, Club Mediterranee has 8.5 percent, Lyonnaise de Banque 6.2 percent and SAE five percent.
Chairman and founder Lotfi Belhassine has six percent and other interests have the remaining seven percent.
Air Liberte expanded its network rapidly in the past year, making full use of the opening up of the big national routes such as Paris-Marseilles, Paris-Toulouse, Paris-Nice and Paris-Bordeaux.
Air France unit Air Inter, renamed Air France Europe, previously had a monopoly over these routes.
Air Liberte, AOM, Eurolair, BA's TAT and others cut their prices in order to win market share on the routes prior to the complete opening up of the French -- and European -- air market in 1997.
But Air Liberte was unable to fill its planes and posted losses. The company also claimed it suffered from a forced regrouping of its activities to Orly Sud terminal, while Air France and Air France Europe remained based in Orly Ouest.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452
The future of French electronics group Thomson SA could be decided later on Monday when the government will say whether Alcatel-Alsthom or the Lagardere Groupe can buy the group.
Sources close to the government said that the decision, prepared in close consultation with President Jacques Chirac, could be announced late on Monday, or at the latest on Wednesday after a cabinet meeting.
The timing of the announcement could be brought forward due to a planned journalists strike on Tuesday over tax increases.
At stake is more than the identity of the industrial group that can take an indebted and loss-making firm off the state's hands. The decision also has consequences for of France's defence industry and its consumer electronics sector.
French newspapers suggest that Alcatel-Alsthom, headed by former arms engineer Serge Tchuruk, stands a better chance of winning than the Lagardere Groupe and its foreign allies.
Thomson SA is 76 percent owned by the state while 20 percent is held by telecommunications operator France Telecom.
Thomson SA has full ownership of Thomson Multimedia, one of the world's leading television set companies, as well as a 58 percent stake in Thomson-CSF which is among the top five world defence electronics companies.
Thomson SA made a 1995 loss of 1.379 billion francs ($266 million) and has debts of some 25 billion francs, of which 14 billion are at the multimedia arm which made a 1995 loss of 1.09 billion francs.
Thomson-CSF returned to the black in 1995 with a profit of 1.01 billion francs. Thomson-CSF has a 20 percent stake in semiconductor group SGS-Thomson Microelectronics NV.
Both bidders have unveiled the main lines of their business plan for Thomson but neither has detailed the financial elements of their bids. French newspapers speculate the state may have to pump billions of francs into Thomson prior to the transfer.
Lagardere Groupe, led by its founder Jean-Luc Lagardere, is a conglomerate with interests spanning from the media business to its Matra defence business.
Lagardere plans to control Thomson-CSF while British Aerospace Plc, GEC Plc and perhaps Daimler-Benz Aerospace GmbH (DASA) could take minority stakes.
This deal, in which Lagardere would merge its Matra Defense Espace arm with Thomson-CSF, would be a major restructuring of Europe's sprawling defence industry.
Lagardere has lined up South Korea's Daewoo to run Thomson Multimedia. Daewoo's chairman said he saw synergies in components and he has promised to create jobs in France.
Alcatel-Alsthom unveiled its Thomson plans on September 18.
For Tchuruk, the acquisition of Thomson is part of a programme to make Alcatel a large French group capable of competing globally.
Tchuruk said he wanted to hoist Thomson-CSF to the number two spot of the world defence industry, behind Lockheed Martin but ahead of GM Hughes Electronics Corp.
For that, Tchuruk planned a "wide-scale partnership with another major industrial player" in Britain, Germany or both.
Tchuruk said he plans to restructure Thomson Multimedia and would seek an Asian partner to bring market access to the rapidly growing southeast Asian markets.
Despite the planned deals with unnamed foreign groups, Tchuruk said he did not want to be commited prior to a Thomson decision. ($1=5.182 French Franc)
ASDA Plc may not be Britain's biggest supermarket chain but new chief executive Allan Leighton is determined to make it the best.
ASDA is currently one of Britain's top four supermarkets with around 13.1 percent of the market, behind Tesco's leading 22.7 percent and its arch-rival J. Sainsbury's 19.3 percent, according to industry figures for September.
"I don't want particularly to be the biggest but what I want to be is the best," Leighton told Reuters in an interview.
Leighton took over on August 27 from his close colleague Archie Norman, the dynamic former chief executive who stepped up to chairman and who has just embarked on a political career as a prospective parliamentary candidate for the Conservative Party.
Norman is credited with turning ASDA around from a debt-laden, downbeat chain when he took over five years ago to its current position as value-for-money with cheeky, high-profile marketing campaigns and a lively image.
But Leighton feels there is still more to do.
"We've still got less than half the store base that we're really satisfied with...a lot of the gain in terms of productivity...and supply chain that our competitors have, we have not yet got and have been slow in getting," he said.
CLOTHING MARGINS HIGHER THAN FOOD
Leighton wants to boost the chain's George clothing range to second place in the market behind own-brand high street name Marks &amp; Spencer. "I'd like it to be...close towards 10 percent (of total sales) in the chain...about a 600 million pound (a year) business," he said, adding that he thought that could be done in "the next couple of years".
Clothing margins are around twice those of groceries for ASDA, Leighton said.
The George clothing brand, exclusive to ASDA, is headed by George Davies who founded the Next chain of fashion stores.
Leighton sees the handover from Norman as an "evolution", valuing continuity but seeing clear areas for change.
"I think continuity in management succession is very important," he said. He added: "There will be some changes, that goes with the territory."
He said the pace of innovation could be speeded up. "We've got a bit more comfortable and I don't like that and so we're just going to hot (innovation) up a bit," he said.
Leighton, a graduate of Harvard business school, sees improvements in technology as a way of achieving greater profitability for the stores.
ASDA needs to make "another quantum (leap)" in using technology, Leighton said, primarily to speed up distribution and product roll-out.
He admitted that in technology "I'm not satisfied with what we are doing...We're not leaping, we're catching up."
Leighton also wants to see a quarter of ASDA's business unique to its outlets, mostly 40-50,000 square feet, in three years' time.
"One of our objectives (is that) in three years, 25 percent of what we do in our stores you would not be able to do in a competitor superstore of up to 30,000 square feet," he said.
DRIVE A JAGUAR FOR ONE MONTH
ASDA's renowned innovative management style, where everyone from checkout staff to chairman is a colleague and employees are encouraged to "Tell Archie" of ideas, has looked largely to Norman and Leighton to carry the company image.
Now, Leighton feels it needs to become "less dependent on two individuals. Now it's time for the team to deliver".
Employees work in an atmosphere where weekly and monthly sector targets are posted in staff areas while A,B,C,D awards are made for action "Above and Beyond the Call of Duty."
Sales competitions reward the winner with use of the company's red Jaguar for a month and there is strong participation in the employee share scheme.
"People want to work in successful businesses and the measure of our success will be in our profitability, earnings per share, and our sales performance and market share," he said.
Leighton feels the confidence in employees engendered by the management style accounts for "a third of our success".
And he sees it in tune with opposition Labour Party leader Tony Blair's concept of a "stakeholder society".
"That's exactly what it is. People should be involved in what they do and there's no reason why they shouldn't be," he said.
Leighton remains committed to ASDA's aim to be the cheapest across a basket of goods and vowed to respond to market leader Tesco's latest challenge of "Unbeatable Value" price offers.
ASDA VOWS TO KEEP MARKET SHARE
"ASDA is very determined we will hold our position. It is very important for us to do that and we will hold it," he said.
"If we are under pressure in some areas, we will and have and are responding," he added.
He said food retailing was currently very competitive and likely to stay that way for "six to nine months".
Own brand goods, which generally give higher margins to retailers, currently account for 35 percent or so of ASDA's sales and Leighton would like to push that up to around 40 percent, but cautioned that "five percent is a lot".
Healthcare, where ASDA has battled against Retail Price Maintenance (RPM), could be an area of opportunity for own brand, he suggested.
But one area where ASDA seems in no hurry is in launching loyalty cards in its stores nationwide, to match moves from Tesco and the other big supermarkets, Sainsbury and Safeway.
ASDA is trying out a loyalty card -- which rewards customers and also provides information about what they buy -- in selected stores but Leighton is unwilling to roll it out until he can see real value for the company in such a move.
"I only feel the need for the database (but) people have still not really worked out how to mine the database," he said.
Leighton suggested that if ASDA had to chose between investing in a decrease in margins through lower prices or loyalty, price would still win out.
"If 0.75 percentage point were the cost, well I could do quite a lot with 0.75 percent in terms of pricing," he said.
Australia's Foster's Brewing Group Ltd said on Monday it was thirsty for expansion and eyeing possible joint ventures in India and Vietnam to add to its international stable of breweries.
Foster's executives told shareholders at the group's annual meeting in Melbourne that despite hiccups at its Canadian and Chinese operations, the company was well positioned to seize on growth opportunities both offshore and at home.
"The first priority after satisfying the cash needs of the current businesses is to seek out new direct investment opportunities with the right return profile," Foster's chief executive Ted Kunkel told the meeting.
"Should that not fully utilise the available financial resources, then we would look at additional options," he said.
Later, Foster's chairman John Ralph confirmed the group was considering joint venture breweries in Vietnam and India but said it was looking at a wide range of possible investments, including acquisitions. Asia is a major focus, he added.
He declined to give details but said the Vietnamese opportunity involved an existing plant.
"There's nothing immediate but we are looking across all the areas of our business in fact," Ralph told reporters.
"We are involved in looking at a couple of opportunities, but it's early days. Provided we can see it makes sense for us, and we can do it on a basis that's going to earn a satisfactory return, then we are likely to move," he said.
Foster's, which has breweries in Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangdong in China, said the Chinese operations would break even or turn a profit in 1998/99. Foster's China posted a 1995/96 loss of A$17 million (US$13 million) before interest and tax.
The group's 40-percent owned Canadian brewer, Molson Breweries, also performed weakly in its business year ending April 1, but has undergone a major restructure and is focusing on building market share at home, Foster's said.
Foster's chief executive Kunkel said Molson still delivered a high return on invested capital and forecast higher operating profits from the group's powerhouse Australian brewing unit, Carlton and United Breweries, over the medium term.
Foster's also plans to free up about A$400 million in non-performing assets and is counting on higher returns from its British pub chain, the Inntrepreneur Pub Company Ltd, putting the group in a stong position to pursue growth, Kunkel said.
Kunkel identified Asia as the most attractive region for investment, noting beer volumes there surged 60 percent in the first half of the 1990s and were forecast to rise another 40 percent before the turn of the century.
"Access can be achieved at a sufficiently low cost and the return profile is sufficiently better therefore than in other growing markets such as South America," he said.
Foster's has allocated A$200 million for direct investments in Asian markets, deeming this amount a "prudent exposure".
The group has spent four years shedding unwanted assets, lightening the burden of debt accumulated in the 1980s when it was part of the sprawling conglomerate known as Elders-IXL Ltd.
Foster's sold its British brewing unit, Courage, last year as part of this asset-sale programme. It has since bought two Australian wine-makers, Mildara Blass and Rothbury Wines Ltd.
"The restructuring of the last four years is nearly over," he said. "Where there is more, it will present opportunities for profit."
Foster's is on track to better its 1995/96 net profit of A$293.3 million in 1996/97, despite higher interest charges and tax payments in the current year, chairman Ralph said.
Australia's Foster's Brewing Group Ltd signalled on Monday that it was thirsty for expansion and said it was eyeing possible joint ventures in India and Vietnam to add to its international stable of breweries.
Foster's executives told shareholders at the group's annual meeting in Melbourne that despite hiccups at its Canadian and Chinese operations, the company was well positioned to seize on any growth opportunities both offshore and at home.  
"The first priority after satisfying the cash needs of the current businesses is to seek out new direct investment opportunities with the right return profile," Foster's chief executive Ted Kunkel told the meeting.
"Should that not fully utilise the available financial resources, then we would look at additional options," he said.
Later, Foster's chairman John Ralph confirmed the group was considering joint venture breweries in Vietnam and India but said it was looking at a wide range of possible investments, including acquisitions. Asia is a major focus, he added.  
He declined to give details but said the Vietnamese opportunity involved an existing plant.
"There's nothing immediate but we are looking across all the areas of our business in fact," Ralph told reporters.
"We are involved in looking at a couple of opportunities, but it's early days. Provided we can see it makes sense for us, and we can do it on a basis that's going to earn a satisfactory return, then we are likely to move," he said.  
Foster's, which has breweries in Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangdong in China, said the Chinese operations would break even or turn a profit in 1998/99. Foster's China posted a 1995/96 loss of A$17 million before interest and tax.
The group's 40-percent owned Canadian brewer, Molson Breweries  MOL.TO, also performed weakly in its business year ending April 1, but has undergone a major restructure and is focusing on building market share at home, Foster's said.  
Foster's chief executive Kunkel said Molson still delivered a high return on invested capital and forecast higher operating profits from the group's powerhouse Australian brewing unit, Carlton and United Breweries, over the medium term.
Foster's also plans to free up about A$400 million in non-performing assets and is counting on higher returns from its British pub chain, the Inntrepreneur Pub Company Ltd, putting the group in a stong position to pursue growth, Kunkel said.
St George Bank Ltd announced on Monday an agreed A$2.65 billion merger with Advance Bank Australia Ltd - its fifth merger attempt in the past two years.
The merger of the two Sydney-based regional banks would create Australia's fifth largest bank, with assets of A$40 billion and a market capitalisation of A$4.5 billion, making its of Australia's top 25 listed companies.  
Analysts said the plan for Advance to pay St George A$100 million if it were taken over by a third party was seen as a way to ward off other bids, making it look like it was fifth time lucky for the St George.
"I think that would make it unattractive for somebody else to come in and make a bid," said Linda Lyon, banking analyst at brokers BNP Equities.
St George said it would offer an effective A$7.30 for each share in Advance Bank.  
Advance shareholders would be offered a combination of A$2.10 in cash, a 20 cent special cash dividend and new St George shares up to a value of A$5.00 per Advance Bank.
St George said the total value of the offer was A$7.30 per share, representing a 20 percent increase over the average Advance Bank share price over the previous five trading days.
Advance shareholders will also receive Advance Bank's interim dividend, expected to be 20 cents, payable in February.
St George said it would also raise A$360 million in a new capital raising to help fund the bid. The issue would proceed upon completion of the acquisition, expected to in April.  
St George said the merger was driven by the need to lower costs and a review had found the merger could achieve a reduction of 15 percent in annual combined expenses or A$140 million before tax.
Advance shares soared over 10 percent on the announcement.
Analysts said that although there would be cost savings, the price was still fairly generous.
"My initial reaction is that it looks like Advance Bank shareholders are coming out of the deal quite well, whereas St George shareholders are coming out not so well," said one Sydney-based banking analyst.  
"It's a big price. I can't imagine anybody else coming and topping the price St George is offering," said BNP's Lyon.
Analysts said the offer valued Advance at 2.8 times net asset backing, well above the 2.0 times asset backing level at which recent Australian bank merger prices had been based.
St George has been desperate to have a friendly merger as it is seen as a takeover target itself.
Australia's largest banking group, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), holds a 6.8 percent stake in St George.
NAB has said it has no takeover plans for St George.  
Analysts said the Wallis inquiry into Australia's finance and banking sector might put NAB's acquisition plans on hold until the inquiry reported its findings in March.
St George's bid for Metway Bank Ltd earlier this year was scuttled by the Queensland government, which trumped its offer with a higher bid through its wholly-owned financial services group Suncorp and the Queensland Industry and Development Corp (QIDC). Last year, St George was foiled in its merger bid for Perth-based Challenge Bank Ltd when Westpac Banking Corp made a higher offer.  
St George was also in talks last year to merge with the Bank of Western Australia Ltd, before the Bank of Scotalnd Ltd took control, and the Bank of South Australia, which was takeover by Advance early 1995.
St George shares plunged after the announcement.
At 2.20 p.m. (0420 GMT) Advance Bank shares were 69 cents or 10.99 percent higher at A$6.97 while St George shares were 40 cents or 4.47 percent down at A$8.55.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
The mother of detained Chinese dissident Wang Dan said on Monday she would defend her son in court against the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government.
"Two defence counsels are allowed...I will be one of them," Wang Lingyun, a 61-year-old researcher at a museum who has no background in law, told Reuters in an interview.
"Wang Dan also wants me to defend him," she said. Chinese laws allow accused to be defended by family members.
A court spokeswoman confirmed Wang Dan, 26, had been charged with plotting to overthrow the government but declined to give further details.
Wang Dan's mother said the court had yet to inform her of the trial date, but said it could come as early as this week.
She said she would defend her son against the charge of collaborating with overseas subversive forces.
"This charge does not stand up," she said, adding that Wang Dan had only taken a correspondence course at the University of California, Berkeley, in the United States.
"It has nothing to do with politics. I was the one who wanted him to attend the course...It has nothing to do with overthrowing the government," she said.
Asked to comment on the chances of winning, she said: "I'm not optimistic. But I must say it for the record. This will become history."
Relatives said last week they had found a lawyer willing to defend Wang after being given one day to find one.
The lawyer retained by the family would defend the dissident against other charges in the indictment.
Wang Dan, former leader of the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations, has been charged with the capital offence of plotting to subvert the government, based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad.
He was detained by police in a raid on his home in May 1995, but was not formally arrested or charged until last week.
On Friday, the family obtained a copy of the bill of indictment, which accused Wang Dan of plotting to subvert the government, a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death. The minimum sentence is 10 years, although the court can show leniency if it finds extenuating circumstances.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in the 1989 demonstrations centred in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, which were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
Wang had been expected to face new charges since last December, when the court that convicted veteran democracy activist Wei Jingsheng of plotting to overthrow the government also implicated the former student leader.
The court's verdict said Wei, who was jailed for 14 years, had links with people "convicted of counter-revolutionary crimes, including Wang Dan". It also referred to a tape-recorded conversation between Wang and Wei, but gave no details.
Wang had been active since his release from jail, defying persistent police surveillance and harassment to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
China's new hardline dictum to its people to battle hostile Western influences with puritan Marxist values underlines a poverty of ideas among an ageing leadership with declining credibility in a fast-changing society, analysts said on Monday.
"They don't seem to grasp that people have changed since the days when they had nothing else to do but to listen to lengthy party documents being broadcast on the radio," said one China analyst.
"Nowadays people have so many other activities they may just skim over the headlines and not bother to read something like this," he said, referring to a 15,000-character Communist Party document issued in official newspapers on Monday.
"Do the leaders not realise people can channelsurf because it's not just one television station any more?" he said.
China's ruling Communist Party, in what it hailed as one of its greatest documents ever, warned against hostile Western ideas such as capitalism and parliamentary democracy, urged vigilance against pornography and profit and vowed to fight back with puritan Marxist values.
"If they are seeking to change the average Chinese in the street then this is not the answer," said one Western diplomat, describing the newest demand for ideological conformity as a rehash of communist methods practiced for years.
Chinese political analysts have warned that the inability of the communist leadership to move with the times and experiment with new ideas and methods to stir up popular support in a society rapidly being transformed by market-oriented economic reforms could have dangerous repercussions.
"A lot of people just aren't listening any more," one analyst said, adding that a consequence of this breakdown of communication would create even more distance between the populace and a leadership that is already remote and secretive.
To recapture popular attention, China's leaders might try to use more extreme propaganda tools, such as whipping up a potentially destabilising nationalist and anti-Western campaign, analysts said.
"We are looking at an ageing leadership -- many of the Politburo are in their 70s -- who are set in their ways and don't seem able to accept younger advisers trying to package acceptable ideology in new wrapping paper," one diplomat said.
Paramount leader Deng Xiaoping had missed an opportunity to appoint a younger leadership when he purged the upper echelons after the 1989 student demonstrations for more democracy, analysts and diplomats said.
Analysts said that while the latest communist creed tried to present itself as a balanced dictum, it was clearly intended to achieve the goal of conformity of thought.
"It's pretty much a blueprint for censors to do what they want," said one diplomat.
Even conservative newspaper editors appointed in recent years as replacements to more liberal writers have been purged in recent weeks, a succession of books have been ordered off the shelves and popular author Wang Shuo has been effectively banned.
"Things are only going to get worse," said one analyst.
However, some doubted how effective a new purge would be.
"It's part and parcel of an attempt to take control of the way people think and the kind of cultural afairs that are conducted," the western diplomat said.
"But people don't always take as much notice as they once did," he said. "It may not last much longer than the time it takes to read the thing."
China needs $20 billion in foreign investment for its power expansion projects through 2000 and its investment climate is strong enough to attract this amount, Chinese power officials said on Monday.
They also denied that there was a firm cap on investment returns in the power industry though they conceded that the best rate on key projects was slightly below 17 percent.
"We will need about $100 billion in investment in power during the ninth five-year plan (1996-2000)," said Zhao Xizheng, vice minister of Electric Power.
"About 20 percent of the total will be from foreign investment," he told reporters at an energy conference sponsored by China and the European Union, adding that the rest would be shared equally by the central and local governments.
"We think we can reach this goal," he said.
Some foreign businessmen have complained that China was setting a ceiling of 15 percent returns on investment and that this was too low.
Asked whether there was a 15 percent ceiling on investment returns for foreigners, Zhao replied: "We have never said there was a 15 percent cap on investment."
Foreign businessmen have said that India and Pakistan offered better returns in the power sector.
"You must look at the level of risk," said another Chinese official. "China is more reliable."
Other Chinese power officials said that the investment return was set on a case by case basis, taking into account financing costs, risk controls and budgetary considerations.
"We don't cap investment returns," said Tan Aixing, director general of the Ministry of Electric Power's department of international cooperation.
He told reporters that the highest return on a central government-approved project -- nearly 17 percent -- was for a power station in Zhuhai in south China.
A Hong Kong consortium including Hutchison Whampoa Ltd and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd, has a 45 percent stake in the plant.
Foreign investors can obtain higher returns than this on smaller projects that do not have to be reviewed by central government authorities.
Projects for less than $30 million can be approved by local governments and often offer more attractive terms, officials said.
Hong Kong, wary about upsetting its future Beijing masters when dissenters use it as an escape route, kept silent on Monday about Chinese dissident Wang Xizhe following reports he had fled to the British colony.
Human rights activists in Hong Kong said Wang, 46, fled here from his home in China's neighbouring Guangdong province over the weekend, just days after the communist authorities in Beijing bundled a colleague into a labour camp.
He was expected to leave Hong Kong soon, they said, possibly by Monday night, and probably for the United States.
The U.S. Consulate declined to confirm or deny that Wang had asked for asylum. "We don't comment on asylum cases," consulate spokesman Patrick Corcoran said.
Wang would be the second Chinese dissident known to have fled to the United States via Hong Kong this year. Liu Gang fled last May after months of police harassment following a six-year prison stint for helping to lead the 1989 student protest movement.
"According to our information Wang is safe at the moment," Robin Munro, Director of Human Rights Watch Asia, told Reuters.
"I think it's likely he'll probably be going on somewhere else fairly soon," Munro said.
Munro said he was unable to say where Wang was heading, but other human rights sources in Hong Kong said he was seeking refuge in the United States.
Washington has been generous in granting asylum to Beijing's political critics since a military crackdown against the student-led democracy movement in Tiananmen Square in June 1989.
Scores, perhaps hundreds, of Chinese dissenters have fled to the West since then through Hong Kong, local activists say.
"I assume he was about to be arrested by the Chinese authorities. I can't think what else would have prompted such a rapid departure," Munro said, attributing Wang's move to the three-year sentence passed on dissident Liu Xiaobo last week.
Wang and Liu sparked reprisals against remaining dissidents last month when they wrote a letter demanding the impeachment of President Jiang Zemin for violating the constitution by placing the army under Communist Party, rather than state, control.
Human rights sources said it was unlikely Wang would speak publicly in Hong Kong but that he would explain himself when he reached his destination.
As Hong Kong prepares to revert to Chinese sovereignty next July 1, issues of human rights, and especially help for mainland dissidents, have become acutely sensitive.
"The Hong Kong government asks such people to keep quiet while they are here as the price for facilitating their smooth exit from the territory," one human rights source said. "And the Americans go along with that quiet, too," he said.
Munro saw the latest developments in China as a blow.
"It's extremely discouraging and quite deplorable the way the (Chinese) government has intensified its crackdown on the few remaining dissidents in China in recent weeks," said Munro.
He said the dissident movement in China had effectively been crushed, with all prominent dissidents either in jail or forced into exile.
"The saddest thing about it is that Wang appears to have concluded there's no way he could continue to struggle for change from within the country," Munro said.
Wang's activism dates from 1974 when he co-authored an attack in Guangdong on the radical 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.
He took part in the 1979 Democracy Wall movement in Beijing and produced his own dissident newsletters. He was twice imprisoned and spent some 17 years in jail and labour camps.
He was released on parole in 1993, and before he fled he had been under constant police surveillance.
Falling world metal prices have spooked Asian aluminium traders who said on Monday up to 80,000 tonnes of the metal was sitting in Chinese ports, having been ordered by consumers who now want to pay the lower prices.
"A lot of people have aluminium stuck in China," a trader based in Hong Kong with a European firm said.
"There's more than 80,000 tonnes that I know of," he said.
Another industry source in Hong Kong said 35,000 to 40,000 tonnes of aluminium was stuck in Hong Kong and the nearby south Chinese port of Shantou, having been destined for Chinese end-users who refused to pay for it.
Chinese trading companies have earned poor reputations in recent years for reneging on deals when world prices of the commodity they are buying fall between the date the order was placed and the date of its arrival.
Metal traders in Hong Kong and Beijing said they had been waiting for news of distressed cargoes as they watched prices fall.
Another trading source said figures of up to 80,000 tonnes of distressed aluminium were believable given the amount in Hong Kong and Shantou, as material was also being shipped to other ports such as Shanghai and Tianjin.
"People will stop selling to China until the price goes up again," he said. "And the price won't move up again until the LME (London Metal Exchange) stocks fall. There's just too much there."
On top of this has been a general slowdown in metals business to China, traders said. None polled by Reuters saw business improving before the end of 1996.
Latest LME figures show aluminium stocks at 961,450 tonnes. The LME's aluminium price has been hitting long-term lows in recent trading weeks.
Prices picked up from 2-1/2-year lows on Friday as news emerged that some Russian smelters were considering cutting production.
LME three-months aluminium ended at US$1,337 a tonne, not much different from Thursday but firmer than before the news and somewhat above a low hit on Thursday of $1,305.
A year ago, the price was $1,742.
"Some people are forecasting the price will move to $1,250," another Hong Kong trader said. But he added: "There is good support at the $1,300 level."
LME warehouses in Singapore had plenty of metal, he said, but it was commanding a premium over the LME cash price of $30 to $40, and ocean freight rates to China were $65 a tonne.
"This is the main problem -- no trader can afford it. No one can afford it," he said.
Chinese consumers were mostly buying hand-to-mouth, waiting for prices to reach rock-bottom, traders said.
"Once the price starts to move up again they will buy, because they will see the bottom has been hit," the European trader said.
Traders said world metals markets would probably spend the fourth quarter of 1996 defining a direction for 1997, when fundamentals should begin to play a role in firming the price.
Latest Hong Kong indications of premium or discount in US$/tonne over LME cash prices on a CIF basis:
					Oct 14	  Oct 7
    COPPER			 60-65	   60-65
    ALUMINIUM  Western	 30-70	   70
		   CIS		 N/A	   60
    LEAD (Chinese brands)	N/A	   N/A
	   (LME registered)	N/A	   75
    ZINC			     N/A	   70
($1=8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Netscape Communications Corp. Tuesday unveiled a line of low-cost software to make corporate networks more like the Internet and said that it would "embrace" archrival Microsoft Corp.'s products as part of its war for control of the corporate software market.
Netscape is under heavy attack from software behemoth Microsoft, which is seeking to wrestle away some of Netscape's dominant share in both Internet and intranet software.
The Mountain View, Calif.-based upstart has about 80 percent of the Internet browser software arena with its Navigator software and between 60 percent to 70 percent of the exploding "intranet" market.
A corporate "intranet" is a computer network designed around Internet technology and open standards.
As part of its plan to try to hold onto its lead and to gain entree to more companies, Netscape unveiled several products for the corporate market and said it was "embracing" Microsoft applications software and its operating systems because many potential customers rely on Microsoft products.
"We are very hard-core about ... fitting into our customers' 'legacy' systems," Marc Andreessen, co-founder and senior vice president of technology at Netscape, told a news conference, in one of many jabs at Microsoft.
"Legacy systems" is a term in the industry that usually refers to the established, older technology running a corporation, such as mainframe computers.
Netscape stock dipped 62.5 cents to $44.25, while Microsoft rose $2.25 to $138.875 on Nasdaq.
Netscape announced several new intranet products, including new software incorporating the latest upgrade of its popular Navigator Web browser, Version 4.0, and priced them way below similar offerings by both Microsoft and Lotus Development Corp., Netscape said.
One new software product, Netscape Communicator, combines Navigator and other components: Composer, to create documents in the hypertext markup language (HTML) used on the Internet's World Wide Web; Messenger, an electronic mail application; Collabra group discussion software; and the Netscape Inbox Direct service, which delivers messages and news stories to an e-mail address daily at no extra cost.
Netscape Communicator will replace the current Navigator software for consumers. Communicator is priced at $49 for the standard version and $79 for the professional edition, per user.
Netscape expects to make Communicator available by next year's first quarter for 17 major computer operating systems, including Windows 95, Windows 3.1 and Apple's Macintosh.
Users of Navigator 3.0 who have purchased a subscription will receive an upgrade to Communicator at no charge.
Netscape also introduced an upgrade of its SuiteSpot software, which manages the server computers that run corporate networks.
SuiteSpot is priced at $57,900 for 1,000 users. This compares with prices of $73,590 to $279,590 for competing products from Microsoft and Lotus, Netscape said.
Netscape also unveiled an initiative to help corporate users make it easier to use its software with core Microsoft products, such as its Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems and Microsoft Office with Netscape products.
Analysts said Netscape is trying to appeal to a whole new group of corporations by enabling its software to run with the huge installed base of Microsoft-based PCs and servers.
"The strategy is not to scare away the IT (information technology) managers," said Eric Brown, a Forrester Research analyst.
Netscape's not-so-friendly bear hug of Microsoft is part of the David-and-Goliath war with Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft, the world's No. 1 software company, for control of the Web browser market and more importantly, control of the corporate network. Netscape already derives 80 percent of it revenues from sales of intranet software.
But Netscape acknowledged it may lose some share in the future intranet software market, which Forrester Research is forecasting to reach $10 billion by 2000.
"Dominance is hard to measure," Andreessen said in an interview. "I think we can get at least 50 percent of the intranet software market in five years."
According to a recent Hambrecht &amp; Quist survey of 200 companies, Netscape now has about 60 percent of corporate intranets, Microsoft's BackOffice has 30 percent and International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus Notes 10 percent.
Netscape's Navigator software has created a huge brand name and a "calling card," giving it entree to major  corporations. Now the company must execute its strategy and build a sales infrastructure, Andreessen said, a major challenge as its growth continues to explode.
The company, which went public in August 1995, is expected to grow to about 1,700 employees by year-end, up from about 400 at the time of its initial public offering, Andreessen said.
Andreessen added that Netscape has not abandoned its consumer focus in favor of the corporate user.
Netscape also signed deals with more than 70 manufacturing partners, including Apple Computer Inc., Compaq Computer Corp., Digital Equipment Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., International Business Machines Corp., Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; C. SpA, Siemens Nixdorf and Sun Microsystems Inc.
Sprint Corp said on Tuesday  it put its local telephone ventures with cable television companies on a back burner because there are more immediate opportunities in reselling existing local telephone service.
"For a lot of reasons the wireline ventures with the cable TV companies moved ... to a back burner," Arthur Krause, Sprint chief financial officer told Reuters.
Sprint's cable partners are Tele-Communications Inc, Comcast Corp and Cox Communications Inc, which together reach 30 million households.  
They had planned to be an early part of Sprint's plan to offer bundled local, long distance and wireless telephone with cable TV on a single bill across the United States.
Krause said faster-than-expected legislative action from the Federal Communications Commission had opened up chances of earlier interconnection deals with incumbent local telephone companies than had been expected two years or so ago.
Some analysts believe there are technical and strategic difficulties too, which have already led to local services being arranged as several separate ventures rather than one common branded service as originally planned.  
Krause predicted Sprint's first such resale deal would precede any offerings of local service in partnership with the cable TV companies, but gave no exact timings.
He noted that resale was always a major part of the plan, because Sprint can only reach 11 million of the 100 million U.S. homes through its own local telephone service unit, and its cable partners reach only another 30 million.
Eventually local service would be provided broadly on Sprint-owned facilities, he said.  
Sprint reported third quarter earnings on Tuesday and pleased analysts with its operating performance, but the stock remains weighed by worries over its ambitious plans, like Sprint PCS, a multi-billion dollar wireless venture.
Krause said the market should see Sprint as two companies.
"We have been encouraging people to look separately at the core operation and at the ventures," he said.
Sprint's core telephone operations should be analyzed based on their earnings, while the new cash-hungry ventures  should be approached on a discounted cash flow basis, he said.  
"(Otherwise)...the value of the new ventures ends up as less than zero," he said.
Krause declined comment on estimates of dilution caused by Sprint PCS ahead of the finalization of the venture's 1997 business plan, which he expected within 30 days.  Analysts expect dilution of $450 miilion to $650 million in 1997.
Krause said he was encouraged that churn, or customer turnover, was declining in its long distance operations, particularly when others were being hit hard.
"(Nevertheless) churn rates still exceed what anyone would hope they would be," he said.
AT&amp;T Corp said in September that high churn in this competitive marketplace was one of the reasons that it predicted an earnings shortfall for the third quarter.
Krause said Sprint's marketing encouraged customers to remain with the company.
"Sprint Sense has a cashback plan that basically rewards people who stay a year or longer," he said, of a consumer market plan.  For small business customers he said that the "Fridays Free" campaign had been equally successful. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
Sprint Corp showed a dynamic performance in all businesses in the third quarter of 1996, and better than MCI Communications Corp or AT&amp;T Corp will manage in long-distance telephone, analysts said.
But uncertainty surrounding the success of expensive new ventures, and continuing dilution of earnings from funding them, are a big and enduring question mark for investors.
"There is a two-sided story here: The businesses are growing very well, but there is all this dilution from new ventures," said analyst Richard Klugman of PaineWebber.  
Sprint third-quarter earnings per share were broadly in line with analysts' estimates at $0.72, down from $0.76 a year ago, weighed down by the cost of new ventures, a 24 percent increase in shares in issue and a two point tax rate rise.
But top line growth was outstanding, analysts said. Call volume carried soared by 21 percent from a year ago, while revenues increased 14.1 percent over the same period.
"Clearly this is going to be the strongest growth of the big three (AT&amp;T, MCI, Sprint) in long-distance volume and revenues," said Better Massick of brokers Bear Stearns.  
However, the shares managed only a restrained rise of 1/2 to 40-3/8 by 1300 EDT/1700 GMT Tuesday.
Two complex multi-billion dollar ventures, Sprint PCS and Global One, caused respectively four and six cents per share of earnings dilution in the third quarter, and more is seen.
Sprint PCS is a wireless Personal Communications Services (PCS) national network being built for tiny new mobile phones that have better battery life and building penetration than existing cellular services, and extra features like paging.  
Sprint owns 40 percent of Sprint PCS, Tele-Communications Inc owns 30 percent, and Comcast Corp and Cox Communications Inc each own 15 percent.
"The question mark over the company is PCS and its ability to execute the strategy," said Simon Flannery of J.P. Morgan.
PCS services are already operating in one metropolitan area, Washington-Baltimore, and Sprint expects to launch two more in November and to be in 15 to 20 by the year end.  
But as each new market opens, the amortization of the license cost -- Sprint paid a total of $2.1 billion for licenses -- plus marketing, network costs and subsidised handset costs also kick in.
Analysts estimate that Sprint could suffer $450 million to $650 million dilution from those costs in 1997. The more successful it is with PCS, the higher these costs will be.
"PCS will not breakeven for years," Klugman said. "But Global One should breakeven sometime in the second half of 1997," he added.  
Global One is an international venture designed both to act as a carrier of services for other telecommunications companies, and a one-stop shop for multinational corporations.
It is half owned by Sprint, and a quarter each by France Telecom and soon-to-be privatised Deutsche Telekom.
The European companies also took a 20 percent stake in Sprint for $3.66 billion in January, which accounts for the extra shares in issue.
Sprint said that Global One is on course for annualised revenues of $1 billion a year by the end of 1996, but Flannery said it was harder to figure out the earnings position.
"The visibility of earnings at Global One is not very good yet," Flannery said. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
Intel Corp stock surged ahead in heavy trading on the strength of its third quarter earnings report, but while its success fueled gains in the stocks of PC makers, the Intel report did little to buoy other chipmakers.
Still, analysts said Intel's share gains Tuesday remained restrained by uncertainties over whether the third quarter ramp-up might lead to a reduction in fourth quarter orders, a concern magnified by Intel's unwillingness to make forecasts.
At midday Tuesday, Intel stock was up 3-3/8 at 111, after trading as high as 114-1/4 near the opening of trading.  
Stocks of personal computer manufacturers who rely on Intel micrprocessors also showed significant gains, as investors saw Intel's order surge as confirmation of strong demand for the machines themselves.
Compaq Computer Corp was up 1-1/2 to 73-3/8. Dell Computer Corp gained 1-1/4 to 86-1/8. Gateway 2000 Inc swelled two to 55-3/8.
"The Intel report was clearly a positive for the whole PC industry," said veteran chip analyst Dan Klesken of Robertson Stephens. "It is an endorsement of our view that we are in for a strong upgrade cycle for the second half of year," he said.  
Chips, a PC graphics chip maker, released its own strong earnings report Monday, with income of $0.42 per share in its first quarter ended September 30 versus $0.20 per share in the year ago fiscal first quarter.
Other gainers in the segment included Trident Microsystems Inc, which was up 7/8 to 20-1/8, after rising nearly two points earlier Tuesday.
Despite these gains, the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index of 16 leading chipmakers was down 1.69 points on the day to 197.97. There were only three advancers, including Intel, compared with 12 losers. One was unchanged.  
Securities analysts said Intel's latest results demonstrate how fundamentally different it is from other semiconductor makers, operating as it does with a virtual monopoly over microprocessors, the core chips of PCs.
Indeed, Intel has benefited from the pain endured by other segments of the seminconductor industry throughout the past year, especially suppliers of memory chips used in PCs.
Memory chip prices have fallen by 80 percent in the last year.  A 32-megabit memory now sells for one-third less than an eight-megabit memory did a year ago but has four times the processing power, noted Robertson's Klesken.  
Earlier Tuesday, for instance, Texas Instruments Inc, a leading U.S. memory chip maker, reported sharply lower operating income for its third quarter of $44 million versus $289 million a year ago.
Correspondingly, the percentage of revenues Texas Instrument derived from Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM) computer memory chips in its recent quarter fell to about 25 percent of company revenues from almost 40 percent last year.
Intel has cut its own prices by up to 50 or 60 percent on processors since last year.  The combined price cuts have spurred order growth Intel is now seeing, Klesken said.  
Robertson's Klesken noted that while the industry revenues are expected to down 10 percent in terms of dollar growth, "Intel will grow 25 percent in terms of top line, full-year revenues."
Excluding the wounded memory chip makers, which account for roughly 30 percent of the semiconductor industry, the chip industry is due to grow only five percent worldwide this year.
"That says it all," Klesken said adding that, "Intel is so clearly head and shoulders above the rest of the industry."  
Intel, which Monday had reported earnings of $1.48 per share in its September quarter, swept past Wall Street's consensus expectations of $1.25 per share for the quarter.
Securities analysts responded Tuesday with a wave of higher earnings estimates for Intel's 1996 and 1997 years.
While trading volume in Intel had reached more than 17 million shares by mid-afternoon, gains in the share price were tempered by lingering questions about whether Intel would see its surge in sales carry through the fourth quarter of 1996.
Intel did not respond directly to such concerns in a conference call with analysts Monday, citing a proposed law on the California ballot in November that would make executives and directors liable for financial forecasts they made.
In addition, some investors appeared to be capturing the recent gains in Intel stock, said Lehman analyst Michael Andrew Gumport, who nontheless reaffirmed his buy rating and set a new 12-month target price of $150 on the stock.
"The stock has done so well that clearly some people are going to take some profits," Gumport said.  Intel traded at around 100 only last Thursday.  The stock hovered around 72 in late July.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Wimbledon champion and fourth seed Richard Krajicek crashed out of the first round of the Czech Indoor Open on Tuesday, losing 6-4 6-3 to Germany's David Prinosil.
Second seed Wayne Ferreira of South Africa also had a rough ride but eventually overcame Italy's Renzo Furlan 7-5 4-6 6-3 while sixth seed Michael Stich of Germany cruised past Australian Sandon Stolle 7-6 6-2.
Krajicek, whose parents emigrated from then Czechoslovakia to the Netherlands when he was a child, struggled to bring his booming serve under control from the outset, failing to mount a sustained attack against Prinosil, ranked number 58 in the world.
"I'm not very happy with the way I played, and David returned my serve very well, and my second serve was off," said Krajicek who served up only seven aces and six double faults.
Former Wimbledon champion Michael Stich found the going much easier, taking a close first set before overpowering world number 71 Stolle in the second set.
After crashing out of the first round in each of his last two tournaments, world number seven Ferreira looked shaky at times, committing a rash of unforced errors that left the match even after two sets.
But another early exit for the South African would have seriously jeopardised his chances of qualifying for the ATP Tour World Championship in Hanover, Germany at the end of the year.
"It's always a tough match against Renzo, he has a game that is suited well against mine," said Ferreira, who currently holds the eighth and final spot for Hanover with Boris Becker, scheduled to play in Ostrava on Wednesday, just 46 points behind.
Fifth seed Todd Martin easily disposed of Slovakia's Jan Kroslak 6-3 6-4 and eighth seed Bohdan Ulihrach fought back in the last set to defeat his Czech Davis Cup team mate Daniel Vacek 6-2 3-6 7-5.
General Motors Corp's decision to invest 300 million stg in its U.K. operations reflected confidence in its Vauxhall Motors unit and international prospects for the Astra model, Vauxhall said on Tuesday.
Vauxhall said the three-year investment will be used to modernise its Ellesmere Port plant in north-west England, which makes Astra cars and vans.
The announcement, made at the British International Motor Show, guarantees the livelihoods of the 4,200 people employed at the plant and will create at least 200 new jobs.
Vauxhall Motors chairman and managing director Nick Reilly told Reuters in an interview that a decision on increasing the number of shifts worked at the plant to three from two to be taken over the next two years could create hundreds more jobs.
Any decision would depend on "what the market is then and the demand for the model is at the time."
The Astra model has been consistently one of Britain and Europe's top five sellers since its launch five years ago, with the development of an estate model boosting its position.
Reilly said the 300 million stg investment was won against intense competition within GM and reflected the transformation of Ellesmere Port from a domestically-oriented plant to "a very important source of manufacturing within General Motors."
He forecast strong growth for the Astra in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Reilly said the British car market is currently "the most competitive in Europe", with a number of importers using huge U.K. fleet sales as a way of offloading cars that remain unsold in sluggish domestic markets. Europe remained "flat," he added.
Vauxhall hoped to keep its market share at around 14.5 percent in 1996, and Reilly said its profitablity is "going in the right direction" after a tough 1995.
Last year, a stagnant car market saw the GM unit's profits slump to three million stg from 79 million in 1994. ($1=.6317 Pound)
General Motor Corp's decision to invest 300 million pounds ($474.9 million) in Vauxhall Motors reflected confidence in its British operation and the international prospects for its Astra model, Vauxhall said on Tuesday.
The company said the three-year investment would be used to modernise its Ellesmere Port plant in north-west England, which makes Astra cars and vans.
The announcement, made at the British International Motor Show, guarantees the livelihoods of the 4,200 people employed at the plant and will create at least 200 new jobs.
Vauxhall Motors chairman and managing director Nick Reilly said in an interview that a possible decision on increasing the number of shifts at the plant to three from two could create hundreds more jobs.
Any decision, likely to be taken over the next two years, would depend on the market and demand for the model at that time.
The Astra model has been consistently one of Britain and Europe's top five sellers since its launch five years ago, with the development of an estate model boosting its position.
Reilly said the 300 million pound investment was won against intense competition within GM and reflected the transformation of Ellesmere Port from a domestically-oriented plant to "a very important source of manufacturing within General Motors."
He predicted strong growth for the Astra in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Reilly said the British car market is currently "the most competitive in Europe," with a number of importers using huge U.K. fleet sales as a way of offloading cars which remain unsold in sluggish domestic markets. Europe remained "flat," he said.
He said Vauxhall hoped to keep its market share at around 14.5 percent in 1996, and said its profitablity was "going in the right direction" after a tough 1995.
Last year a stagnant car market saw the GM unit's profits slump to three million pounds from 79 million in 1994. ($1=.6317 Pound)
Two of the biggest names in the British motor industry, Rover and Vauxhall, kicked off the British International Motor Show on Tuesday by unveiling big new investments to fuel their drive for more exports.
Rover, owned by Germany's BMW, said it planned to launch a new four-wheel drive "baby Land Rover" to take on Japanese rivals in Britain and world export markets.
The new vehicle, due to go on sale in 1998, is part of Rover's rolling 3.0 billion pound ($4.75 billion) investment programme.
Rover will in addition inject 3.5 billion pounds of new business into the components industry. This will go mainly to British firms and safeguard tens of thousands of jobs at Rover and its supplier firms.
Vauxhall, owned by General Motors of the United States.S., also guaranteed 4,200 existing jobs at its Ellesmere Port complex in northwest England with the announcement of a 300 million pound investment to modernise the plant.
Efforts by both companies to gear up to expand foreign sales come as the British market is witnessing sluggish sales, with most growth stemming from sales to company car fleets.
The Birmingham-based motor show, following the recent Paris showcase, saw motor companies banging the sales drum, seeking to gloss over their problems with glitz and new gizmos to tempt customers into buying. But exports remain key.
Rover's new chief executive, Dr Walter Hasselkus, said: "The baby Land Rover is very much an export product," adding that he hoped its export sales would account for 70 percent of production and boost sales in 1998.
Vauxhall Motors chairman and managing director Nick Reilly said while the British and European markets remained difficult, he saw opportunities for sales of the five-year old Astra model to grow quite significantly in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Most industry leaders agree that Europe is likely to remain a cut-throat place to do business, with over-capacity squeezing margins.
Ian McAllister, head of Ford Motors in Britain, told Reuters that the six percent growth levels seen in Europe was distorted by factors like discounting and the French government offering incentives for customers to buy new cars.
Some analysts put underlying European growth as low as two percent, after stripping out factors like those cited by Ford.
McAllister blamed poor consumer interest in Britain on the "feeling-not-so-good" factor and predicted no turnaround until consumers were cured of their recessionary hangover.
The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders industry group admitted that a turnaround depended on persuading "Joe Public to visit showrooms" again and the first test is tomorrow when the show opens to consumers. ($1=.6317 Pound)
Russia's Fuel and Energy Ministry, sitting on the remains of the once-great power it wielded over the oil sector, is struggling to redefine itself in the new market economy, energy analysts said on Tuesday.
The body, known as Mintopenergo, could once command that oil wells be drilled, helped to restrict exports with quotas and ensured that billions of dollars in oil export cash from the world's third largest oil producer went into Kremlin coffers.
Today the power to produce, export and plot corporate strategies largely lies in the hands of Russia's newly privatised, vertically integrated oil firms -- leaving the ministry to redefine itself in the new market economy.
"You kind of have to use the word castrated -- it's not what it once was," said a European energy consultant in Moscow.
Under new minister Pyotr Rodionov, a gas transport specialist, Mintopenergo may have even less of a say in the daily business of oil firms, which increasingly go about their own business and cut their own deals with foreign investors.
Oil companies say the ministry, as the guardian of big state stakes in them, could become a lobby for their interests in the Kremlin and less the long-arm of politicians seeking oil profits to top up the federal budget.
"Undoubtedly its regulatory influence has waned," said Alexei Gorshkov, spokesman for YUKOS, Russia's second largest oil company in terms of reserves. "We don't see it (their former influence) and, frankly, don't want to see it.
"But the ministry does explain our point of view on taxes to the government, and for that we are grateful."
Known as the Ministry of the Oil and Gas Industries in the Soviet era, Mintopenergo lost responsibility for what is today Gazprom, the natural gas monopoly, when it was renamed in 1991.
During Mintopenergo's existence, it has seen Russia's state-run oil production associations transformed into privatised companies, some of them with multi-billion dollar arrangements with Western oil majors.
Mintopenergo's brief includes coal and electricity. But many of its oil specialists have fled the ministry's Stalin-era building for lucrative jobs at investment banks and oil firms.
Even former minister Yuri Shafranik left in August to head the board of the Tyumen Oil Company, whose headquarters are in his Siberian power base in the oil-rich Tyumen region.
"The ministry is simply not going to be as important as it once was," said Matthew Sagers of PlanEcon in Washington in a recent interview. "It's going to be left with a policy-making, advisory, overseer role -- and that's a good thing."
Mintopenergo has a new challenger to the remnants of its power base in the form of the Federal Energy Commission, or FEK.
The brainchild of presidential chief-of-staff Anatoly Chubais, FEK wants to inject a free-market flavour into energy tariff and transport issues, although it is unclear how much leeway it will have. It is seeking to award access to crowded pipeline routes by tender, thus restricting the power of oil pipeline monopoly Transneft in non-operational issues.
Rodionov has said he plans policy changes -- but he has not revealed what he has in mind and has worried some industry players with talk about freezing domestic crude oil prices.
An aide to Rodionov said the ministry was foresaking its broad-brush "industry-wide approach" to energy in favour of concentrating on what he said were individual matters important to the Russian economy, like tax breaks for oil companies.
But one Western oil source said he was not so interested in what Rodionov planned, because the ministry had lost its power.
"Power has been devolved by default out to the oil companies and the ministry recognises this, which is why it puts its people on company boards," said Stephen O'Sullivan, associate oil and gas director at MC Securities in London.
Media mogul Rupert Murdoch said on Tuesday he intended to use sports broadcasting rights as a "battering ram" for dominance of pay television markets in Asia and throughout the world.
He said the purchase of those rights would also buy his way into the world's sporting establishment.
"Sport absolutely overpowers film and everything else in the entertainment genre," Murdoch told shareholders at the annual meeting of News Corp, his global media group.
"We have the long-term rights in most countries to major sporting events and we will be doing in Asia what we intend to do elsewhere in the world, that is, use sports as a "battering ram" and a lead offering in all our pay television operations," said Murdoch, News' chairman and chief executive.
News Corp has spent big money on acquiring sports programming rights worldwide over the last five years and has set up sports programme distribution deals with some of the industry's biggest players in the past 12 months.
Murdoch's global media and entertainment group set up a worldwide sports programming joint venture with U.S. cable television giant Tele-Communications Inc (TCI) and Liberty Media of the United States in January.
Two weeks ago, News Corp formed an Asian sports programming joint venture with its former competitor Walt Disney Inc's sports broadcaster ESPN.
"Sport will remain very important and we will be investing and acquiring long-term rights and becoming part of the world sports establishment," said Murdoch, News' chairman and chief executive.
"Football, of all sports, is number one," said Murdoch, who sails as a sporting pastime.
News Corp has spent millions on football programming rights over the past few years. It has bought the rights for the National Football League (NFL) in the U.S. and Premier League soccer in the United Kingdom and is setting up its rebel rugby league competitions in Australia and Europe.
"We expect the next three World Cups will have a significant place on our platforms," said Murdoch referring to the soccer and Rugby Union world cups.
Murdoch received a boost to his Australian sports broadcasting plans two weeks ago, when the Australian Federal Court overturned a Court ruling in March that banned the launch of News' rebel rugby league competition, Super League. News Corp's Australian offshoot has spent A$273 million (US$216 million) on setting up Super League.
"There has been an unfortunate hold-up, but it (Super League) is going to be a wonderful asset to have now that we are free to get that competition under way," said Murdoch, who is Australian-born, but now holds U.S. citizenship.
The group's sports programmes are broadcast through its vast television operations, which reach accross the United States and into parts of Latin America.
In Europe, News Corp's main TV interest is through its 40-percent stake in British Sky Broadcasting Plc (BSkyB), which announced sharply-increased pre-tax profits of 257 million pounds sterling (US$406 million) for the year to June 30.
News Corp operating profits for the same period were A$1.26 billion. Television, which contributed A$549 million, was the most profitable sector.
In Asia, News' satellite TV operator STAR TV broadcasts throughout Asia from Saudi Arabia to Japan. In Australia, News Corp has a 50-percent stake in the Foxtel cable TV joint venture and a 15-percent stake in TV broadcaster Seven Network Ltd.
(A$=US$.7900, 1 pound sterling = $1.58)
United Airlines said Thursday it ordered 51 new airliners valued at $4.4 billion from Boeing Co. and Airbus Industrie, and although the lion's share went to Boeing, one industry analyst said the European consortium scored a big victory over arch-rival Boeing.
United said it will buy 24 narrow-body A319 aircraft from Airbus. The order is valued at $900 million based on manufacturers' list prices, but United will likely pay much less thanks to special discounts.
United chose the Airbus planes over competing Boeing 737-700s and 737-300s after evaluating both, a UAL spokesman said.
"It certainly is a big win for Airbus," said Peter Jacobs, aerospace analyst at Ragen MacKenzie.
Boeing hardly walked away empty-handed, as United said it will buy 27 new wide-body planes -- 19 747-400s, six 757s and two 777s -- from the Seattle-based aircraft manufacturer.
The Boeing order is valued at $3.5 billion based on list prices. But again, United spokesman Joe Hopkins said, "We're not paying the retail price."
Jacobs said United may have won discounts from Boeing and Airbus of 10 percent to 15 percent off list price.
The new wide-body planes will replace older Boeings in United's fleet, said the airline, a unit of Chicago-based UAL Corp.
Boeing has been flooded with orders for new aircraft over the past 18 months. That may have made the manufacturer less willing to offer rock-bottom prices to beat Airbus for the narrow-body planes, Jacobs said.
"Boeing may have been more willing to walk away from an order than it would have been earlier," he said.
Airbus initially sold United a fleet of narrow-body A320s in 1992 by offering the airline deep discounts and an unusual walk-away lease arrangement.
"What that did was it got Airbus planes into the United fleet. That made this next decision for United easier," Jacobs said.
United will likely need to order another 100 narrow-body planes over the next seven years to update its fleet, he added.
United said the planes will be part of its "retire and replace" programme to update its fleet.
"By 2000, the programme is expected to generate more than $100 million in annual operating cost savings, reducing fuel, maintenance and labour costs," it said.
The programme will also ensure that United meets certain noise reduction requirements.
Delivery of all aircraft is scheduled to be completed by 2002, United said.
The carrier said it placed orders with United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit for engines for the Boeing aircraft and with International Aero Engines AG for engines for the Airbus jets. United Technologies owns 33 percent of International Aero Engines.
The Airbus A319s will replace United's older Boeing 737-200s, the airline and Airbus said. The new planes are configured to seat 126 passengers.
The A319 is a smaller derivative of the Airbus A320. United already operates 34 A320s and will take delivery of 16 more by the end of 1998, they said.
United joins German airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the largest airline customers for the A320 family, each with 74 planes.
Airbus Industrie is a consortium made up of French-owned Societe Nationale Industrielle, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Germany's Daimler-Benz AG, and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA of Spain.
China confirmed on Tuesday that veteran dissident Wang Xizhe had fled the country, accused him of crossing the border illegally and said Chinese authorities were pursuing those who helped him.
"Concerning the question of Wang Xizhe, this is a case of illegally and secretly crossing the border," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a regular news briefing.
"The judicial authorities are currently pursuing the legal responsibilities of Wang Xizhe and the plotters," Shen said, apparently implying that Wang had help when he fled to Hong Kong last week.
Wang, 46, one of China's most vocal advocates of democracy for more than two decades, escaped to Hong Kong just days after a fellow activist in Beijing was condemned to a labour camp for three years.
"We hope that countries concerned will not have the slightest ambiguity in cracking down on illegal and secret immigration," Shen said.
Wang has been missing from his home in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong that abuts Hong Kong since fellow pro-democracy activist Liu Xiaobo was arrested in Beijing last Tuesday and ordered to serve three years in a labour camp.
He is reported to be seeking asylum in the United States but Shen said China had received no official confirmation that Wang had sought refuge there.
"We have not yet seen any action by the United States," Shen said, adding that Beijing would watch Wang's case closely.
"The governments of some countries, including the United States, should carry out what they have always stressed, namely their stand to crack down on illegal immigration," he said.
Wang and Liu penned a daring statement last month accusing the ruling Communist Party of reneging on a 1945 pledge to grant freedom of the press and to allow people to form political parties and stage demonstrations.
The two urged the impeachment of Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin for violating the constitution by saying the army should answer only to the party rather than to the state.
Wang would be the second Chinese dissident to flee to the United States via Hong Kong this year. Activist Liu Gang fled to Hong Kong last May and has since found asylum in the United States.
Wang was first jailed in 1974 on charges of sedition for putting up a wall poster advocating democracy in China. He was paroled in 1993 after serving 12 years of a 14-year sentence and stripped of his civil rights for five years.
The report of Wang's flight abroad comes amid a renewed crackdown on China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Liu Gang, who spent six years in prison as a leader of the 1989 student-led demonstrations for more democracy, fled to the United States last May after months of police harassment at his home in the northeastern province of Liaoning.
Detained dissident and former leader of the 1989 protests Wang Dan faces the capital charge in Beijing of plotting to subvert the government based on evidence such as writings critical of the state and accepting funds from abroad.
Wang Dan, detained since May 1995, has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government -- a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death and a minimum of 10 years in prison.
Wang Dan had defied persistent police surveillance and harassment to take part in a bold appeal in May 1995 to Beijing for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 student protests.
United Airlines has ordered $4.4 billion worth of airplanes from Boeing Co. and Europe's Airbus Industrie, with the the lion's share going to Boeing, the airline announced Thursday.
United ordered 27 wide-body jets -- 19 jumbo 747-400s, six 757s and two 777s -- valued at about $3.5 billion from Boeing and 24 narrow-body Airbus A319s valued at $900 million.
The Chicago-based UAL Corp. unit is the first U.S. airline to order Airbus' latest model, United and Airbus said.
United chose the Airbus planes over competing Boeing 737-700s and 737-300s after evaluating both, a UAL spokesman said.
"United benefited from substantial discounts to the prices from both manufacturers," the airline said, noting that the order values it quoted were based on manufacturers' list prices.
United said the planes will be part of its "retire and replace" programme to update its fleet.
"By 2000, the programme is expected to generate more than $100 million in annual operating cost savings, reducing fuel, maintenance and labour costs," the airline said.
The programme will also ensure that United meets certain noise reduction requirements.
Delivery of all aircraft is scheduled to be completed by 2002, United said.
The carrier said it placed orders with United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit for engines for the Boeing aircraft and with International Aero Engines AG for engines for the Airbus jets. United Technologies owns 33 percent of International Aero Engines.
The Airbus A319s will replace United's older Boeing 737-200s, the airline and Airbus said. The new planes are configured to seat 126 passengers.
The A319 is a smaller derivative of the Airbus A320. United already operates 34 A320s and will take delivery of 16 more by the end of 1998, they said.
United joins German airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the largest airline customers for the A320 family, each with 74 planes.
Airbus Industrie is a consortium made up of French-owned Societe Nationale Industrielle, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Germany's Daimler-Benz AG, and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA of Spain.
Fears China has been cancelling soybean and soybean meal orders in the wake of tumbling world prices came as no surprise to Asian grain traders on Tuesday.
"Prices have dropped US$10 (a tonne) since Friday -- there is the incentive," a Hong Kong trader said.
"If you can buy cheaper material, then you probably will, no matter who or where you are," he said. "But there is no unsold cargo in the market. Most has been committed. We're sold out.
"So the CBOT (Chicago Board of Trade) drops $10, can you buy cheaper? No. There is no physical available," he added.
CBOT soymeal prices closed lower on Monday on fears China might have been cancelling soybean and soymeal purchases following the recent price slides, traders there said.
Soymeal closed unchanged to $4 a tonne lower, with October down $1.60 to $235.10 a tonne.
Asian grain traders could not confirm the rumours.
Traders last week reported total soybean and soybean meal purchases by China of up to 800,000 tonnes. The sales would show up in U.S. Department of Agriculture figures this week.
The Chinese swoop on the market followed an extended public holiday while China celebrated National Day on October 1.
During those three weekdays of rest -- September 30 to October 3 -- CBOT soy product prices fell on worries among traders the crop would be bigger than expected.
China scooped up between 600,000 and 800,000 tonnes of beans and meal. Traders reported c&amp;f (cost and freight) prices at between $300 and $310 a tonne.
On Tuesday, however, traders said Chinese buyers, notorious for their price consciousness, would be keen to get even better prices and to increase their profit margins.
"Now that Chinese buyers are responsible for their own profit and loss, this is becoming more frequent," another Hong Kong trader said.
The shortage of physical availability would see Chinese buyers who wanted to increase their margins by cancelling previous orders missing out altogether, he said.
"They are still waiting for the dust to settle down, and maybe the price will stabilise in one or two days," he said.
"The price today is affordable for the Chinese but they are wanting prompt delivery and there is none around for them."
China is in the midst of the peak soymeal consumption season and has been expected to import significant quantities before the end of 1996.
The possibility that a new import tax regime will be introduced from January 1, 1997, would serve to dampen orders in December, traders said, and orders for delivery before year-end should be high.
Ideally, imports should arrive before new crop soybean products start coming on to the market in January, a Chinese trader said.
Before then, China should have imported 300,000 to 400,000 tonnes of soybean meal to make sure the larders are full for Chinese New Year, which in 1997 falls in February.
"Feed industry demand will go down seasonally after February, so we will see increased domestic supply and decreased demand from February to April," he said.
"Then from April/May demand will go up again so they will need more imports."
This year's soybean crop is expected to be two or three percent down on the 13 million tonnes harvested in 1995.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Investment bankers Salomon Brothers forecast "phenomenal" long term growth prospects for Thai Airways International Ltd and said management is "finally getting serious" about cargo.
In a recent 24 page equity research report, its Hong Kong based author Peter Negline recommended traders buy Thai shares below 50 baht because of the carrier's good prospects.
"Thai has phenomenal long term growth prospects resulting from a strong local economy," the report said.
In an analysis of Thai's strengthens it noted its global alliances with Deutsche Lufthansa AG and United Airlines and its regional competitive advantage because it is closer to European markets and the stability of the baht currency.
"A robust Thai economy should support strong passenger and cargo traffic growth. We assume Thai's improved service and price competitiveness will support higher load factors," Negline told Reuters.
In his report's Forecast Assumptions, Negline says economic growth on the whole should remain robust but warns of lower yields.
"This should continue to provide an ongoing platform for solid growth in passenger and cargo traffic. At an operating level, the airline is likely to suffer from further yield declines in both passenger and freight operations. However, through fiscal 1997/98, management should be able to ensure costs fall as fast, or faster, than the corresponding yield decline - largely due to the lower operating costs of the new aircraft fleet," the report said.
It also highlights opportunities for growth in lower operating costs through cargo.
"Thai has only really started to focus on growing its cargo business over the last two years, (over the last four years, freight revenue tonne kilometres (RTK's) have grown at only 11 per cent per annum) which is on the low side compared with other regional competitors. Thai has improved its freight load factors from 60 per cent in 1991 to 71 per cent in 1995, although cargo still represents only about 13 per cent of total revenue. Volume increases have been at the expense of yield declines. The recent announcement of a joint lease with Lufthansa indicates management is finally getting serious about this market," says the report.
Earlier on Tuesday the Thai Cabinet approved a proposal to allow Thai Airways to take a 40 percent stake in a new cargo company. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 44 171 542 5017,JG 2987 7212
China's rising foreign debt should not cause anxiety because the economy is booming and foreign exchange reserves are bulging, financial analysts and economists said on Tuesday.
Beijing was being cautious about raising the level of its foreign debt despite strong demand for capital, they said.
Foreign debt rose 6.3 percent to $109.57 billion at the end of June from a year earlier, the State Administration of Exchange Control said on Thursday.
Total foreign debt was up by 2.8 percent, or $2.98 billion, compared with end-1996.
The growth in debt was lagging well behind the expansion of the economy in a sign that Beijing was retaining its tight grip on overseas borrowing, said a foreign analyst in Beijing.
"(The debt increase) is not out of line with the size of the economy... I wouldn't think it is an alarming number," he said.
The need to restrain companies hungry for capital and the traditional reluctance of China's communist leadership to be indebted to foreigners were partly responsible for Beijing's tight limits on debt, said a Hong Kong-based financial analyst.
"Basically, the growth in the debt has been very moderate over the last couple of years," he said.
Demand for foreign loans and investment has soared as China's economy has boomed and officials and businessmen have pursued ambitious infrastructure and development plans, but Beijing was reluctant to depend too much on foreign finance, the analyst said.
Healthy foreign exchange reserves that reached a record $95.0 billion by the end of September had given Beijing the ability to boost debt levels without damaging lender confidence, but also enabled it to limit borrowing by providing a separate foreign currency source, said the Beijing analyst.
"China tends to be more conservative in borrowing, that's the culture, and this is more on the conservative side," he said.
"There is capacity for them to borrow more...without worrying about the underlying fundamentals," he said.
A senior Chinese economist under the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation said the rise in total debt was a response to a slight reduction in foreign direct investment and the continuing demand for capital.
He welcomed the exchange administration's report that the proportion of debt held by foreign-funded enterprises had risen to 18.6 percent, compared with the 30.2 percent accounted for by government debt and a 39.1 percent share for financial institutions.
"It is difficult for foreign-invested companies to raise money in China, so it is normal for them to raise funds overseas," the economist said. "China is not responsible for the debts of foreign-invested companies."
State media said in June that China intended to borrow more abroad, but would also adjust the foreign currency structure of its debt to make it match exchange income and reserves.
The decision to expand the scale of the national debt had not weakened Beijing's administrative vetting of the quality of overseas loans, which remained strict, the analysts said.
Ameritech Corp. and Sprint Corp., the two biggest telecommunications companies in the Midwest, Tuesday reported double-digit profit increases in the third quarter of 1996 and said they expect more to come.
Sprint, a long-distance and local carrier based in Kansas City, Mo., said net income rose 16 percent to $312.4 million from $268.5 million in the 1995 quarter. Revenues grew 10.6 percent to $3.54 billion from $3.21 billion.
Earnings per share fell to 72 cents from 76 cents, mainly because of a 20 percent stake taken in Sprint by France Telecom and Germany's Deutsche Telekom which lifted the number of shares outstanding by 24 percent.
Ameritech, based in Chicago, said net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 edged up to $519 million, or 94 cents a share, from $512 million, or 92 cents a share.
Both companies' earnings were broadly in line with analysts' consensus forecasts carried on First Call, which tracks estimates.
"We currently expect to once again report double-digit volume and revenue growth ... in the fourth quarter," Sprint Chief Financial Officer Arthur Krause said.
Ameritech, whose core business is local phone service in the Midwest, said revenues rose 10 percent to $3.7 billion from $3.4 billion.
"Each of our three strategies -- growing our core business, investing in high-growth initiatives and geographic expansion -- plays an integral role in our ability to create sustainable double-digit growth," said Ameritech Chief Executive Richard Notebaert.
Analysts were impressed by Sprint's strong showing in long-distance service, an area where industry giant AT&amp;T Corp. recently slipped up and warned of lower profits.
"Clearly this is going to be the strongest growth of the big three (AT&amp;T, MCI Communications Corp. and Sprint) in long-distance volume and revenues," said analyst Bette Massick of brokers Bear Stearns.
However, some were concerned that the cost of investments such as Sprint PCS, a wireless venture, were eating up profit growth.
"There is a two sided story here: the businesses are growing very well, but there is all this dilution from new ventures," said analyst Richard Klugman at Painewebber.
Sprint PCS is a wireless Personal Communications Services (PCS) national network being built for tiny new mobile phones designed to have better battery life and building penetration than existing cellular services, and extra features including paging.
Sprint owns 40 percent of Sprint PCS, Tele-Communications Inc. owns 30 percent, and Comcast Corp. and Cox Communications Inc. each own 15 percent.
PCS services are already operating in one metropolitan area, Washington-Baltimore, and Sprint expects to launch two more in November and to be in 15 to 20 by the year end.
The other venture is Global One, an international firm designed as a carrier of services for other telecommunications companies and as one-stop shop for multinational corporations.
It is half owned by Sprint, and a quarter each by France Telecom and soon-to-be privatised Deutsche Telekom.
For the year to date, Sprint's net income grew 27 percent to $938.5 million, or $2.22 a share, from $739 million, or $2.10 a share. Sales expanded to $10.42 billion from $9.42 billion.
Ameritech said nine-month net income slipped 1.9 percent to $1.56 billion, or $2.83 a share, from $1.60 billion, $2.88 a share, despite a 12 percent growth in revenues to $11.0 billion from $9.9 billion.
The company said international investments drove more than one-third of its earnings growth in the quarter, led by investments in Belgacom of Belgium, Matav of Hungary and Telecom New Zealand.
In the third quarter telephone lines increased by 3.7 percent to 19.6 million, while cellular customers increased by 37 percent to 2.3 million.
Ameritech's shares fell 87.5 cents to $54.375 while Sprint added 37.5 cents to $40.25, both on the New York Stock Exchange.
General Motors Corp., facing a rancorous strike by its Canadian workers, Tuesday reported a $1.3 billion third-quarter profit that was boosted by strong automotive results and an unsually low income tax rate.
The world's largest automaker said the combined net income of its North American Automotive Operations and its Delphi Automotive Systems parts businesses was $515 million. A year ago, the operations had a combined loss of $93 million, while the parent company posted a profit of $396.7 million.
Increased volume and favourable currency exchange rates helped GM to nearly triple its international operations profits to $323 million from $111 million a year ago.
"The third quarter results from continuing operations clearly show momentum as we continue to rebuild our strength in North America and grow our business in key international markets throughout the world," GM Chairman John Smith said in a statement.
The earnings, equal to $1.57 a share, compared with a profit of 39 cents a share from continuing operations. They do not include results from Electronic Data Systems Corp, which GM spun off in June. Revenues climbed to $39.1 billion from $35.3 billion in the 1995 period.
Contributing to profits was $565 million in one-time favourable items. GM recorded a $253 million after-tax gain from a reduction in the reserve to pay for plant closings, thanks to its decision to use its Wilmington, Del., facility to assemble new Saturn vehicles.
Also, GM's effective income tax rate was 2.8 percent, adding another $312 million, as the company took advantage of several tax credits, including a reinstatement of research and experimentation credits for the last half of 1996.
GM Chief Financial Officer Michael Losh told reporters during a conference call that rate is expected to return to the 27 percent range in the fourth quarter.
As it has all year, GM continued to add to its growing cash account in the third period, contributing another $1.5 billion to bring its total cash balance to $14.5 billion at the end of the quarter.
Because GM has previously set its cash goal at $13 billion, Ronald Glantz, an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds, believes the GM board will return some of that money to shareholders.
"I thought it was a pretty decent quarter," he said. "I have a lot more confidence that they are going to raise the dividend and announce a share repurchase programme."
Glantz said the annual dividend could go to $2.00 a share from the current rate of $1.60 at the next board meeting Nov. 4. By the end of 1997, he said GM may have in place a $3 billion share repurchase programme.
GM's third quarter net profit margin from continuing operations rose to 3.7 percent from 1.3 percent. Smith said that was good news, but noted the company still has a ways to go before it reaches its average annual profit margin goal of 5 percent over an auto business cycle.
"We still have our work cut out to improve margin performance," he said.
GM delivered more vehicles worldwide in the third quarter -- 2,085,000 vs. 2,060,000 -- but its global market share slipped to 16.1 percent from 16.9 percent.
The company also lost share in the U.S. car and truck market, finishing the quarter with 30.4 percent compared with 32.2 percent. GM delivered 1,182,000 vehicles in the United States during the quarter, down from 1,235,000.
But CFO Losh said the overall volume increase represented good news for the company, and was a sign there is demand for the bevy of new models it is launching.
"It's volume that drives earnings, not market share, per say," he said.
Another positive sign was the pace of new-model launches, said Losh. Production of full-size vans at Wentzvile, Mo., and Saturn coupes in Spring Hill, Tenn., have reached full line speed, and other plants are on schedule.
GM is in the midst of launching 15 new cars and trucks. In the third quarter, the company had nine plants actively involved in changeovers. Losh said that is the most it expects to have in a given quarter, adding GM will have seven in changeovers in the fourth quarter.
However, one of those nine plants is a facility in Oshawa, Ontario, which is the target of a strike by Canadian Auto Workers. Losh declined to say how much the strike will set back the new model launch there.
Losh also declined to comment on status of talks between both the CAW and United Auto Workers. About 26,000 CAW members began walking off the job Oct. 3 over the issue of outsourcing -- the use of outside contractors. GM also has yet to reach a new labour pact with the UAW.
On Tuesday, the number of U.S. workers idled by the strike rose to 10,297 from 5,911 on Monday.
A federal judge Tuesday accepted Archer Daniels Midland Co.'s price-fixing guilty plea and ordered it pay $100 million in fines, but the action did not put an end to the scandal at the farm products giant.
Shortly before U.S. District Court Judge Ruben (corrects from Rueben) Castillo accepted ADM's guilty plea to two counts of price fixing, U.S. Justice Department officials in Washington said they were continuing their investigation of two company officials.A "This is not a good day for corporate America," Castillo said in accepting the company's guilty pleas and confirming separate fines of $70 million and $30 million -- by far the largest ever in a price-fixing case.
The judge said he recognised that some parties might criticise the fines as being too low, but said he believed they would serve as a deterrant to any company that is tempted to fix prices.
"No American company is above the law," Castillo said.
Under the plea agreement Castillo accepted, ADM will pay a $70 million fine for fixing prices of lysine, a feed additive, and $30 million for fixing prices on citric acid, an additive used in food, beverages and other products.
Earlier in Washington, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gary Spratling said federal authorities were still gathering evidence in the case involving two ADM officials, Vice Chairman Michael Andreas, and Terrance Wilson, a vice president in charge of ADM's corn refining division.
Attorney General Janet Reno, who joined Spratling at a news conference, also said the settlement should send a message worldwide to corporations that if they engage in collusive behaviour that hurts U.S. consumers, "there will be vigorous investigation and tough, tough penalties."
U.S. Attorney James Burns of the Northern District of Illinois said that under the agreement, Archer Daniels officials are required to cooperate with the Justice Department in its ongoing investigation.
"You should stay tuned," said Burns. "There will be more to come."
The company, meanwhile, said its profits plunged in the latest quarter after it took a $174.4 million charge related to the fines and other litigation settlements arising from the lysine and citric acid cases.
ADM said its net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 fell to $3.6 million, or 1 cent a share, from $163.1 million, or 29 cents a share.
The company's stock was unchanged at $21.625 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Caterpillar Inc., the world's largest construction and mining equipment maker, Tuesday reported record third-quarter profits of $310 million, up 45 percent from $213 million a year ago.
Sales jumped to $4.03 billion from $3.73 billion, while earnings per share rose 50 percent to $1.61 from $1.07.
The results exceeded expectations on Wall Street and Caterpillar stock jumped $2.50 to $76.625 on the New York Stock Exchange. Analysts had forecast profits of $1.34 a share, according to First Call, which tracks earnings estimates.
For the first nine months of 1997, sales were $12.06 billion, up slightly from $11.86 billion a year ago, while profit surged to $980 million from $836 million.
"There really wasn't much of a sales increase but there was a tremendous bottom-line increase," Caterpillar Chief Financial Officer Douglas Oberhelman said in a telephone interview. Most of the earnings gain was due to improved operations, though some was currency related, he said.
Profit margins rose to 25 percent in the quarter from 19 percent a year ago, primarily due to higher prices, stronger volume and the effects of a stronger U.S. dollar, Caterpillar said. Price gains were seen equally inside and outside the United States, Oberhelman said.
Continuing improvements in manufacturing and essentially flat material costs also helped boost profits but were partly offset by an unfavourable product sales mix, the heavy equipment maker said.
The sales mix in the quarter shifted more toward lower margin smaller machines, Oberhelman said, but he added that this mix shifts month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter.
"The thing that's encouraging is the gross margins remain strong," said Lisa Shalett, analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co., Inc. "It looks like the productivity gains they talked about in the second quarter are continuing"
Higher machine sales in the United States accounted for most of a 5 percent increase in sales volume in the quarter, Caterpillar said.
But deliveries to U.S. dealer rental fleets fell from a year ago as rental inventories remained high, the company said.
Machine sales in Europe fell due to declines in Germany and France, where the contruction sector remains weak, the company said. Sales in China, Japan, Australia and Latin America were up, while sales in Canada were unchanged and sales fell in the former Soviet Union.
The company also said it expected 1997 sales to be up slightly from an expected record in 1996, while it expects 1996 profits to exceed the $1.14 billion reported in 1995. The current record for sales is $16.07 billion, set in 1995.
"Our preliminary outlook for 1997 is to slightly surpass the record levels achieved in 1996," Chairman Donald Fites said in a statement.
"We continue to see opportunities for solid growth in the vast majority of the global markets we serve, particularly in the fast-growing developing nations where infrastructure needs are greatest," Fites said.
Higher industrial demand in developing regions, Canada and Australia are expected to offset slightly lower demand in the United States, Europe and Japan, the Peoria, Ill.-based company said.
"The outlook statement surprised me on two levels," Shalett said. "It talked about slightly higher sales but not higher profit. I thought that was deliberate."
She also said that while sales gains outside the United States, Europe and Japan are expected to offset lower demand in those areas, "it's not clear to us that it makes up for (those areas) on the profit side."
Chrysler Corp., planning for a future without fear of financial crisis, said Tuesday it can boost its annual production capacity past 4 million vehicles and grab 20 percent of the U.S. car and truck market.
Chrysler's top executives, in a series of briefings Tuesday, said the automaker was poised to boost its financial performance further through cost cuts, engineering innovations, new products and other initiatives.
Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said the automaker has not made market share a goal, but said an 18 percent to 20 percent share of the U.S. car and truck market "is not unrealistic" for Chrysler.
Detroit's third-largest automaker held 16.2 percent of the market during the first nine months of 1996 -- roughly its highest share ever.
After working to rebuild Chrysler's product line, operations and balance sheet after financial crises in 1980 and 1991, the automaker's management team is now focusing on long-term growth.
"For the first time in its history, this company doesn't have to spend every waking moment looking over its shoulder and worrying about its future," said Chrysler President Bob Lutz. "We've moved beyond saying 'never again' to 'Why not?'"
Indeed, Eaton said he now believes that Chrysler can withstand a 10 percent to 20 percent drop in production and remain profitable -- something that was impossible five years ago.
With a string of hit products, especially Jeeps and minivans, under its belt, the automaker is planning to boost capacity to 3.765 million vehicles by the year 2000 from 3.2 million this year.
Included in those figures are a new Dodge sport utility vehicle that will go on sale in the fall of 1997. Industry analysts have said the vehicle will be called the Dodge Durango and will be based on the new Dakota compact pickup truck.
The automaker could build up to 4.2 million vehicles annually in its current assembly plants if it adds third production shifts, said manufacturing Executive Vice President Dennis Pawley.
That does not include the possible replacement of Chrysler's Toledo, Ohio, assembly plant.
Eaton confirmed that the automaker was working with state and local officials to study replacement options for the 86-year-old facility, but has made no firm plans.
Much of Chrysler's increased capacity will be aimed at overseas markets. The executive vice president of international operations, Thomas Gale, said Chrysler expected to double its international vehicle sales to 500,000 vehicles over the next three years from 250,000 this year.
Gale said he believed Chrysler can ultimately sell more than 1 million vehicles overseas but did not offer a timetable.
He showed off a prototype of a proposed ultra-low-cost car for emerging markets such as China, which features an all-plastic body and a two-cylinder, 0.8-litre engine made by Briggs &amp; Stratton Corp.
The bare-bones car, which would not meet U.S. emissions and safety regulations, resembles France's discontinued but much-loved Citroen 2CV and could sell for $5,000 to $6,000.
Eaton, who Monday announced surprisingly strong third-quarter earnings of $680 million, up from $365 million a year ago, outlined several financial goals for the automaker, without giving a timetable. They include:
-- Boosting production by 6 percent a year.
-- Cutting research and development spending to 2.5 percent of revenues from 2.7 percent. Ford Motor Co.'s spending rate is 5.9 percent of revenues, General Motors Corp. is at 5.5 percent and Toyota Motor Corp. is at 5.0 percent, Chrysler said.
-- Cutting marketing costs to 6.3 percent of sales from 6.5 percent currently.
-- Boosting return on sales to 8.0 percent from 6.5 percent for the first nine months of 1996 and 3.7 percent for the same period of 1995.
Apple Computer Inc is expected to report on Wednesday that it had a loss in its fiscal fourth quarter ended in September amid declining sales of its Macintosh computers, but a turnaround may be at hand.
Apple's management is likely to tell investors that the beleagured company is getting closer to resuming profitability, possibly as early as the December quarter, analysts said.  
"The financial condition of the company has been strengthened," said Todd Bakar, an analyst at Hambrecht &amp; Quist in San Francisco.  "Questions of their long-term viability don't come up as often anymore."
In the past three quarters, Apple has reported huge losses as customers have defected to cheap IBM-compatible personal computers running Microsoft Corp's easy-to-use Windows 95 software.  By cutting costs and firing workers, Apple has managed to whittle its losses.  
Wall Street expects Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., to post a loss of $0.30 a share, according to a recent survey of 23 analysts by First Call.  In the fiscal fourth quarter last year, Apple reported net income of $60.1 million, or $0.48 a share, on revenue of $3.0 billion.
Apple's new management, under former National Semiconductor Corp chief Gilbert Amelio, has done a good job cutting expenses, analysts said.
Apple also has managed to raise enough cash to be out of a dire cash shortage, which threatened to hamper day-to-day operations. The company could even generate a little cash from its business this quarter, analysts said.
The trick now is to convince consumers that the Macintosh is a worthy competitor to PC clones.
Intel Corp. stock surged Tuesday, lifted by a quarterly earnings report that substantially outpaced Wall Street expectations and confirmed its status among analysts as the shooting star of technology stocks.
The earnings report released Monday spurred gains in the stocks of personal computer makers who build machines based on Intel microprocessors but it did little to buoy other chip makers.
"The Intel report was clearly a positive for the whole PC industry," said veteran semiconductor analyst Dan Klesken of Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
"It is an endorsement of our view that we are in for a strong upgrade cycle for the second half of the year," said Klesken.
Still, analysts said Intel stock gains were restrained by uncertainties over whether the third quarter's sharp rise in orders may have come at the expense of the fourth quarter.
The concern was magnified by Intel's decision to at least temporarily halt the practice of forecasting its business prospects.
Intel stock rose $3.50 to $111.125 Tuesday on Nasdaq in a volatile day of trading in which just under 20 million Intel shares changed hands. Intel's gains sparked the technology-heavy Nasdaq index to 1,258.10, up 1.74, its second consecutive record closing high.
On Monday Intel reported third-quarter profits of $1.3 billion, up from $931 million in 1995's third quarter. Wall Street had predicted profits of $1.1 billion.
Brokers responded to the results with a wave of higher earnings projections for Intel for 1996 and 1997.
Personal computer makers who rely on Intel micrprocessors also saw significant gains, as investors viewed Intel's order surge as confirmation of strong demand for the machines themselves.
Compaq Computer Corp. gained $2 to close at $74.75 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange, a day ahead of its own earnings report, due Wednesday.
Dell Computer Corp. rose $3.50 to $88.375 and Gateway 2000 Inc. climbed $3.375 to $56.75, both on Nasdaq.
But Intel's swelling fortunes were seen as having only limited effect on other semiconductor suppliers.
Montgomery Securities analyst Clark Westmont said the main beneficiaries were a handful of custom PC chip makers who sell graphics controllers and other PC-related devices.
Every Intel processor that goes into a PC is accompanied by serveral such ancillary chips.
"Intel is the locomotive who drags along all the other guys in this food chain," Westmont said. "As a result, these other guys are enjoying higher recognition today."
He pointed in particular to PC graphics component supplier Chips and Technologies Inc. stock, which jumped $4.875 to $19.75, or roughly 25 percent, after it released its own strong quarterly earnings report.
A year after its massively publicized introduction, Microsoft Corp.'s Windows 95 computer operating system has fallen short of the most optimistic expectations for the software giant and the industry.
Even though more than 40 million copies of Windows 95 have been sold, making it the fastest-selling new software ever, it would have been impossible for any product to live up to the unprecedented hype of the Aug. 24, 1995 launch, when stores around the world opened at midnight to greet long lines of customers.
The Redmond, Wash.-based company spent tens of millions of dollars promoting the product with stunts that included buying the entire print run of the Times of London and lighting New York's Empire State building in a Windows color scheme.
But the product, delivered eight months late, has fallen short of its sales potential in part because Microsoft delivered a mixed message to business customers, analysts said.
"It didn't do as well as it could have," said Rob Enderle, an analyst with Giga Information Group.
Scores of software and hardware companies that had hoped for a big boost in sales were disappointed when only a brief spike materialized.
"People who were expecting major coat-tails were somewhat disappointed," said Scott Winkler, an analyst with Gartner Group.
"It's not as though it hasn't had an impact," he said. "It just hasn't had the huge earth-shattering impact some people were looking for."
Symantec Corp., which had been among the most bullish of software companies at the time of the Windows 95 launch, ended up posting disappointing financial results when retail sales of the operating system fell short of its projections.
Touchstone Software Corp. had to pay $1.3 million in cash and stock to settle a shareholders lawsuit brought after the company's sales failed to meet expectations tied to the Windows 95 launch.
Many software developers apparently saw their crucial holiday season sales suffer last year because store shelves were jammed with blue-and-white boxes of Windows 95, resulting in a shortage of space for seasonal products, said Ann Stephens, president of PC Data Inc.
To be sure, sales of Windows 95 and the accompanying Office 95 upgrade drove Microsoft sales up 46 percent last year to a record $8.67 billion and cemented the company's status as the industry's dominant company.
Microsoft executives say they are thrilled with the sales figures, and industry analysts estimate that by sometime next year, the installed base of Windows 95 will surpass that of the older version of Windows, now used on about 100 million computers worldwide.
But Enderle said the figure could have been even higher if Microsoft had done a better job of handling the huge demand for technical support from customers who were frustrated trying to install the system.
He and other analysts said corporate America adopted a go-slow approach because Microsoft already was promoting the new version of its high-end Windows NT operating system, expected to be available in stores in the next several weeks.
"Microsoft sent a lot of signals that NT was going to be the answer," Winkler said. "Many people began to believe that Windows 95 was being downplayed."
But now that Windows NT 4.0 has been launched, Winkler and others believe only a relatively small proportion of corporate users will elect to pay the added software and hardware costs needed to use it instead of Windows 95.
"Windows 95 is going to do great," he said. "The mistake people made was in thinking it was going to be a fast, sweeping change rather than a slow, building change."
French aviation executives said on Tuesday they feared renewed turbulence with the United States over airline market access in France, with flagcarrier Air France caught up in a looming "air war".
The U.S. government wants France to sign a bilateral treaty which would grant more landing rights to American airlines, while Paris seeks a gradual market liberalisation.
A spokeswoman for the U.S. embassy in Paris told Reuters the U.S. authorities had not rejected the new winter schedule for state-owned Air France.
"However, Air France has requested increased services over last winter," she said.
"The Department of Transportation has extended the deadline to rule on Air France's request until October 27, thereby giving our government time to discuss the schedule with the French authorities."
That delay on approving Air France's schedule was seen as a strongarm measure to force Paris into agreeing a new aviation treaty.
"It's like placing a dagger at our throat," an aviation executive said. Air France's winter schedule was due to enter service on October 27.
Air France has requested an extra flight to San Francisco, two to Los Angeles and one to Chicago this winter, compared to the 1995 winter schedule. It wants to add extra cargo capacity from March to Miami and Chicago.
A second French executive said if the United States took unilateral measures, Paris would not hesitate to retaliate against U.S. airlines, as it did in March when U.S. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena rejected Air France's summer schedule.
Paris cut landing rights of six U.S. airlines before the junior transport ministers of both countries, meeting in Paris, agreed to open talks aimed at reaching a treaty to replace one which expired in 1992.
Without such a treaty, each route and landing rights have to be negotiated on a case-by-case basis, whereas Washington would like a global, market-driven solution.
Separately, Washington is withholding approval of a planned alliance between American Airlines and British Airways Plc until Britain agrees an "open skies" treaty with the United States.
Rupert Murdoch on Tuesday reported that News Corp. Ltd. had performed below expectations in the first quarter, but he said the global media group was still on track for a 20 percent profit rise this year.
Murdoch, the chairman and chief executive of News Corp., also unveiled a more conservative approach to financing new acquisitions.
"I am on record as saying that we expect a 20 percent increase in profit for the year," Murdoch told a packed News Corp. annual meeting in Adelaide.
"We still expect that and are still aiming for that during the coming year. However, I should say that the first quarter may not be quite up to those expectatations, but we will certainly be striving to make up any shortfall," Murdoch said.
Analysts viewed the comments as disappointing and said they were now more sceptical about the 20 percent profit pledge.
"If they can't meet expectations in the first quarter, when they have those strong revenues from 'Independence Day," then what hope do they have of getting 20 percent in the full year?" asked one Sydney-based media analyst referring to a hit Hollywood movie made by News Corp's Fox studio.
Traders on the Australian share market did not like the first quarter comment either, selling the shares 14 cents or almost two percent lower to close at A$7.20 ($5.69), while the broader Australian stock market closed at a record high.
In the 1995/96 year ended June 30, News Corp's net profit slipped to A$1.02 billion ($806 million) from A$1.37 billion in 1994/95 ($1.08 billion).
Murdoch said revenues at the Fox U.S. television business had begun 1996/97 slowly because of of the Atlanta Olympic Games, the rights to which were held by a rival network.
Australian newspaper revenues would be flat in 1996/97, said Murdoch.
But he remained buoyant about News' British operations, saying the advertising market there was booming and the partly-owned BSkyB pay television operation was growing strongly.
Murdoch then unveiled a more cautious strategy for financing future expansion.
"As far as possible, we will finance them (News' expansion plans) out of current cash flow to maintain liquidity so that we will be ready to take new opportunities as they arise," he said.
News has often funded its aggressive growth in pay television and other media through either hefty debt or equity issues, which have sometimes met shareholder resistance. It almost collapsed under a debt mountain in the early 1990s.
United News &amp; Media on Tuesday secured victory in a battle for control of international exhibitions group Blenheim with an agreed offer valuing the company at 592.5 million pounds ($935 million).
The deal will create the world's largest trade exhibition group with a turnover of more than 500 million pounds, based on 1995 figures.
Media and financial services group United said it had already secured acceptances for 51 percent of Blenheim after offering five pounds per share.
"The acquisition will be earnings-enhancing in the first full year but the real attraction is the long-term growth we can get out by combining these businesses into one group," United chief executive Clive Hollick told Reuters.
United News shares added 31 pence to 674-1/2 pence after the announcement, while Blenheim gained 22-1/2 to 496.
Dutch publisher VNU, which last week acquired a 15 percent stake in Blenheim, said it would not make a counter-bid and was likely to sell its stake. That decision effectively removed the threat of a bidding war developing for Blenheim.
Anglo-Dutch media group Reed-Elsevier had been regarded as a rival suitor to United but sources close to the company indicated in the last few days that it had dropped out of the running.
The deal ends an on-off saga that began in June when Blenheim said it had received a bid approach. In August it said that talks with an unnamed party had broken down but then made another statement a few weeks later confirming a new approach.
Based on 1995 figures, combined turnover and operating profit would be 545.5 million pounds and 88 million pounds, respectively.
Analysts said that Blenheim's geographical strength in continental Europe, and France in particular, made it a good fit with United.
United's Miller Freeman subsidiary operates more than 100 exhibitions in the United States, Europe and Asia but the American market is seen as its main strength. These exhibitions are supported by a range of trade publications.
Blenheim operates more than 170 exhibitions worldwide but does not have a significant publishing portfolio.
"The directors of United believe that the Miller Freeman and Blenheim trade show portfolios are highly complementary geographically, by market sector, and in terms of operational management," United said in a statement.
The acquisition is the first major move by United since the national newspaper group merged with television and financial services group MAI earlier this year.
That merger doubled the size of the company, creating a British media major with a market capitalisation of more than three billion pounds.
United News &amp; Media on Tuesday emerged with the winning hand after a lengthy poker game over the future of international exhibitions group Blenheim.
United, which has interests in British national newspapers and commercial television, trumped its rivals with an agreed offer valuing Blenheim at 592.5 million pounds ($935 million).
The deal will create the world's largest trade exhibition group with a turnover of more than 500 million pounds based on 1995 figures.
Media and financial services group United said it had already secured acceptances for 51 percent of Blenheim after offering five pounds per share.
"The acquisition will be earnings-enhancing in the first full year but the real attraction is the long-term growth we can get out by combining these businesses into one group," United chief executive Clive Hollick told Reuters.
United News shares added 30 pence to 683-1/2 pence after the announcement, while Blenheim gained 23 to 496-1/2.
Dutch publisher VNU, which last week acquired a 15 percent stake in Blenheim, said it would not make a counter bid and was likely to sell its stake. That decision effectively removed the threat of a bidding war developing for Blenheim.
Anglo-Dutch media group Reed-Elsevier had been regarded as a rival suitor, but sources close to the company indicated in recent days that it had dropped out of the running.
French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux confirmed on Tuesday that it planned to sell its 15 percent stake in Blenheim following United's offer.
The deal ends an on-off saga that began in June when Blenheim said it had received a bid approach. In August it said that talks with an unnamed party had broken down but then made another statement a few weeks later confirming a new approach.
Analysts said that Blenheim's geographical strength in continental Europe, and France in particular, made it a good fit with United.
"After VNU's move, United have done well to tie it up at five pounds a share," said David Forster of Salomon Brothers.
"In Miller Freeman, United have a substantial established business in this area and Blenheim will fit well into it."
United's Miller Freeman subsidiary operates more than 100 exhibitions in the United States, Europe and Asia but the American market is seen as its main strength. These exhibitions are supported by a range of trade publications.
Blenheim operates more than 170 exhibitions worldwide but does not have a significant publishing portfolio.
"The directors of United believe that the Miller Freeman and Blenheim trade show portfolios are highly complementary geographically, by market sector, and in terms of operational management," United said in a statement.
The acquisition is the first major move by United since the national newspaper group merged with television and financial services group MAI earlier this year.
That merger doubled the size of the company, creating a British media major with a market capitalisation of more than three billion pounds. ($1=.6337 Pound)
United News &amp; Media on Tuesday secured victory in a battle for control of international exhibitions group Blenheim with an agreed offer valuing the company at 592.5 million pounds ($935 million).
The deal will create the world's largest trade exhibition group with a turnover of more than 500 million pounds, based on 1995 figures.
Media and financial services group United said it had already secured acceptances for 51 percent of Blenheim after offering five pounds per share.
"The acquisition will be earnings-enhancing in the first full year but the real attraction is the long-term growth we can get out by combining these businesses into one group," United chief executive Clive Hollick told Reuters.
United News shares added 31p to 674-1/2p after the announcement, while Blenheim gained 22-1/2p to 496p.
Dutch publisher VNU, which last week acquired a 15 percent stake in Blenheim, said it would not make a counter-bid and was likely to sell its stake. That decision effectively removed the threat of a bidding war developing for Blenheim.
Anglo-Dutch media group Reed-Elsevier had been regarded as a rival suitor to United but sources close to the company indicated in the last few days that it had dropped out of the running.
The deal ends an on-off saga that began in June when Blenheim said it had received a bid approach. In August it said that talks with an unnamed party had broken down but then made another statement a few weeks later confirming a new approach.
Based on 1995 figures, combined turnover and operating profit would be 545.5 million pounds and 88 million pounds, respectively.
Analysts said that Blenheim's geographical strength in continental Europe, and France in particular, made it a good fit with United.
United's Miller Freeman subsidiary operates more than 100 exhibitions in the U.S., Europe and Asia but the American market is seen as its main strength. These exhibitions are supported by a range of trade publications.
Blenheim operates more than 170 exhibitions worldwide but does not have a significant publishing portfolio.
"The directors of United believe that the Miller Freeman and Blenheim trade show portfolios are highly complementary geographically, by market sector, and in terms of operational management," United said in a statement.
The acquisition is the first major move by United since the national newspaper group merged with television and financial services group MAI earlier this year.
That merger doubled the size of the company, creating a British media major with a market capitalisation of more than three billion pounds. ($1=.6337 Pound)
Ford Motor Company Ltd, the U.S. carmaker's U.K. arm, said on Tuesday that the British sales outlook for 1997 looked pretty flat as customers suffered from a "feeling-not-so-good" factor.
Ian McAllister, chairman and managing director of Ford U.K., told Reuters in an interview at the British International Motor Show that weak sentiment was the primary reason for sluggish interest among UK consumers in the last three years.
"People were badly bitten by the recession and have become cautious about their own personal balance sheets," he said.
He added that it would require an end to consumer worries, like house owners' negative equity, and a cure for the recessionary hangover before the private car market took off.
Industry analysts have said that most of the growth in the UK car market has been due to companies buying cars, rather than the man on the street snapping up new models.
McAllister said company fleet sales would remain a priority for Ford in the coming year but said, "We will reduce our exposure to the heavily discounted rental market."
The UK chief agreed that the slight growth in sales across the wider European car market so far in 1996 had been distorted by government incentives in countries like France to trade in fuel guzzling old cars for new models, as well as heavy discounting by most car makers.
The underlying picture for the European car industry has been less promising, he acknowleged, agreeing that excess market capacity in Europe had fuelled downward pressure on margins for players across the board.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717
British industry watchdog Ofwat said on Tuesday it would review water company price limits in 1999, five years ahead of schedule, in a move which commentators said was not unexpected and possibly with political undertones.
The opposition Labour party, currently standing ahead of the ruling Conservative party in opinion polls with a general election due by May 1997, welcomed the move as "long overdue".
Ofwat set the current price limits in 1994 for a 10-year period with an option to review in five years at the request either of Ofwat director general Ian Byatt or the companies.
In a statement, Byatt said "a gap of ten years between reviews is too long even given the long term nature of the water industry."
"The regulator's decision to have a review in 1999 comes as no surprise," Janet Langdon, director of the Water Services Association which represents water firms, said in a statement.
Labour environment spokesman Frank Dobson said in a statement the review was an admission by Ofwat that Labour "has been right to argue that the water companies have been allowed to rip off their customers since privatisation."
Byatt said he was announcing the review now "to remove speculation and regulatory uncertainty...to give sufficient time for consultation with all those involved."
Water company shares dipped on the news with Anglian Water down six pence to 547-1/2 pence while Severn Trent shed four pence to 600 pence and Thames Water was down four pence to 548-1/2 pence.
Multi-utilities Hyder and United Utilities also suffered, sliding 12-1/2 pence to 700 pence and four pence to 585 pence respectively.
Byatt said major consideration would be given during the review to the need for balancing supply and demand and to pay more attention to leakage control, factors highlighted in last year's drought when many firms banned non-essential water use.
Labour criticised the industry at the time for allowing some 826 million gallons of water a day to seep out through pipes while paying large dividends and hefty salaries to directors.
Ofwat has already flexed its muscles against Yorkshire Water's inadequate handling of the drought which saw the company forced to tanker in supplies, by imposing price cuts for next year and singling it out at the time for a review in 1999.
The company, which has since had a change of management, said on Tuesday it would finally lift all restrictions imposed in the summer of 1995 on November 1.
Labour, which has utility companies in its sights for a proposed "windfall" profits tax, said Ofwat's planned price review would "have to play its part in (a) better deal for customers."
Byatt, by announcing an early review and stressing the need to pass savings on to customers, is "moving to assuage the politicians," said one analyst who declined to be named.
"There is lots of jockeying for position ahead of an election. The companies want to be seen to be doing the right thing," said Chris Perry, analyst at Charterhouse Tilney.
Later this year, companies will have an opportunity to go some way to pre-empting a harsh review when they announce interim results at the end of November.
Several of the water companies have used the announcement of past results to share out benefits of cost savings between customers and shareholders, giving rebates to the former and generous dividend payouts to the latter. "Companies may well consider there is a value now in laying out their plans for benefit sharing ahead of the next election," one analyst said.
Rupert Murdoch on Tuesday reported that News Corp Ltd had performed below expectations in the first quarter, but he said the global media group was still on track for a 20-percent profit rise this year.
Murdoch, the chairman and chief executive of News Corp, also unveiled a more conservative approach to financing new acquisitions.
"I am on record as saying that we expect a 20-percent increase in profit for the year," Murdoch told a packed News Corp annual meeting in Adelaide.
"We still expect that and are still aiming for that during the coming year. However, I should say that the first quarter may not be quite up to those expectatations, but we will certainly be striving to make up any shortfall," Murdoch said.
Analysts viewed the comments as disappointing and said they were now more sceptical about the 20-percent profit pledge.
"If they can't meet expectations in the first quarter, when they have those strong revenues from Independence Day, then what hope do they have of getting 20 percent in the full year?" asked one Sydney-based media analyst referring to a hit Hollywood movie made by News Corp's Fox studio.
Traders on the Australian share market did not like the first quarter comment either, selling the shares 14 cents or almost two percent lower to close at A$7.20, while the broader Australian equity market closed at a new record high.
In the 1995/96 year ended June 30, News Corp's net profit slipped to A$1.02 billion ($806 million) from A$1.37 billion in 1994/95.
Murdoch said revenues at the Fox U.S. television business had begun 1996/97 slowly because of of the Atlanta Olympic Games, the rights to which were held by a rival network.
Australian newspaper revenues would be flat in 1996/97, said Murdoch.
But he remained buoyant about News' British operations, saying the advertising market there was booming and the partly-owned BSkyB pay television operators was growing strongly.
Murdoch then unveiled a more cautious strategy for financing future expansion.
"As far as possible, we will finance them (News' expansion plans) out of current cash flow to maintain liquidity so that we will be ready to take new opportunities as they arise," he said.
News has often funded its aggressive growth in pay television and other media through either hefty debt or equity issues, which have sometimes met shareholder resistance. It almost collapsed under a debt mountain in the early 1990s.
Analysts said the comments indicated a more conservative approach towards acquisitions and their financing and would be welcomed by the market.
"It imposes a huge financial discipline on the company which would hearten people immensely," said another analyst.
(A$1 = $0.79)
News Corp Ltd's unveiling on Tuesday of plans to run its finances more conservatively were welcomed by analysts who have sometimes been critical of News' previous big debt and equity issues.
Rupert Murdoch, the chief executive and chairman of the global media group, told the company's annual meeting in Adelaide that News now had over US$2.5 billion of cash in the bank after a bond issue last week and planned to keep it there.
"We know that we have to be not only viable and profitable, but also that we should stay strong and liquid," Murdoch said.  
Murdoch then said News Corp's multi-billion dollar plans to create huge pay television networks in the United States, Asia, Japan, Latin America and Australia would be financed from cash flow. He also said News Corp needed to keep its liquidity up to finance new acquisitions.
"We have outlined these plans to show you where we are and where we plan to go. As far as possible, we will finance them out of current cash flow to maintain liquidity so that we will be ready to take new opportunities as they arise," he said.  
Analysts said the comments indicated a more conservative financial strategy, constrasting with the big acquisitions, investments and big debt and equity issues of the past.
The analysts said the market, which has sometimes been critical of the big deals and the big calls on the market, would welcome the comments.
News Corp's issue of preference shares earlier this year to fund the US$2.48 billion buy out of New World Communications upset many and triggered a slump in the price of the preference shares.  
"It's slightly more conservative and the market will like it," said Macquarie Equities media analyst Alex Pollak of Murdoch's latest approach.
"The market is absolutely paranoid that they'll go out and spend A$1.5 billion on something that they will not like," Pollak said.
"Anything with more money spent on the big picture stuff, they're not going to like much," he said, adding the market wanted News to concentrate on ploughing money into its existing pay television networks in the United States.  
Analysts said Murdoch's comments about keeping the US$2.5 billion in the bank and financing projects from cashflows indicated any acquisitions would be small by Murdoch standards.
"That imposes a huge financial discipline on the company which would hearten the market immensely," said a Sydney media analyst. "If he can keep to those comments then it's most certainly a big plus," he said.
News Corp shares closed 14 cents or 1.9 percent lower at A$7.20 after Murdoch said the first quarter was not up to earlier expectations of a 20 percent profit rise in 1996/97. But he said News remained on track for that 20 percent rise.  
"If they can't meet their expectations in the first quarter when the strong revenues from 'Independence Day' are coming, then what hope do they have for the full year," one analyst said.
The hit movie was made by News Corp's Twentieth Century Fox subsidiary.
"His comments about the first quarter were weaker than what people were anticipating and it looks like U.S. television was one are of disappointment," another analyst said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
The computer software and instruction kit for the death machine used in the world's first legal mercy killing will soon be available on the Internet, the Australian doctor who developed it said on Tuesday.
Dr Philip Nitschke, who last month connected cancer sufferer Bob Dent to the machine in Australia's outback Northern Territory, said Internet users would be able to copy the software and instructions from a home page now being developed.
"We see no reason in restricting it in any way," Nitschke told Reuters in Melbourne, where he is due to demonstrate the machine at an euthanasia conference this week.
The death machine used in the Northern Territory, which has the world's only voluntary euthanasia law, enables people to give themslves lethal injections with the tap of computer keys.
On September 22, Nitschke hooked Dent up to the machine with an intravenous tube. Dent, a 66-year-old former carpenter and one-time Christian missionary, started the flow of lethal drugs by entering three simple computer commands.
"Once the intravenous line is put into the patient...then it's simple a matter of the patient pressing the response to the questions on the screen," Nitschke said. The computer programme asks three times if the patient wishes to go ahead.
Dubbed Australia's "Dr Death" by opponents of assisted suicide, Nitschke said the idea of an euthanasia home page was a response to strong interest in Dent's death and the new law, atlhough he said he was having some logistical problems getting the page up and running.
An estimated 50 million people use the worldwide Internet computer network.
"It's to let people know and give them some idea of the way this is being done in a responsible fashion in the Northern Territory," he said, adding he had already sent how-to-do-it kits overseas and around Australia using electronic mail.
A doctor cannot lawfully hook a patient up to the machine anywhere outside the Northern Territory, whether overseas or in Australia's six states and other territory, Nitschke said.
But he dismissed suggestions he could face criminal charges if a machine built from material supplied on the Internet was used in mercy killings outside the remote outback jurisdiction.
"I feel very safe as far as giving the details of the equipment and as far as providing the software and the like," he said. The software is a "trivial" part of the device, he added.
The software and equipment needed to build the machine are very simple and can be bought for around A$200 (US$160), though the lethal drugs are extremely difficult to obtain, he said.
He said he was now developing another death machine which used carbon monoxide and an oxygen mask, enabling people to end their lives without needing someone to insert intravenous tubes.
"When people get too old and frail it can be very difficult to get access to veins and gas is a much easier way to go, and carbon monoxide is a painless and acceptable way...," he said.
Nitschke described his machine as a "slicker" version of the suicide device designed by U.S. euthanasia advocate Dr Jack Kevorkian, who has publicly acknowledged attending more than 40 deaths since he began his assisted-suicide crusade in 1990.
(A$1 = $0.80)
Media magnate Rupert Murdoch said on Tuesday the first quarter performance of his global media group, The News Corp Ltd, had been below expectations, but that he was still confident of a 20 percent profit rise in 1996/97.
"I am on record as saying that we expect a 20 percent increase in profit for the year," Murdoch told a packed News Corp annual meeting in Adelaide.  
"We still expect that and are still aiming for that during the coming year. However, I should say that the first quarter may not be quite up to those expectatations, but we will certainly be striving to make up any shortfall," he said.
In the 1995/96 year ended June 30, News Corp's net profit slipped to A$1.02 billion from A$1.37 billion in 1994/95.
He said revenues at the Fox U.S. television business had begun 1996/97 slowly because of of the Atlanta Olympic Games, the rights to which were held by a rival network.
Australian newspaper revenues would be flat in 1996/97, he said.  
However, News Corp's British newspapers were doing extremely well, with circulation at The Sunday Times climbing with little promotion while advertising in Britain was booming.
Murdoch, News Corp's chief executive and chairman, also announced the group now had US$2.5 billion in cash in the bank after recent U.S. bond issues and would leave it there.
He also said that News now planned to fund future expansion from cash flow where possible.
"We know that we have to be not only viable and profitable, but also that we should stay strong and liquid," Murdoch said.  
"As far as possible, we will finance them (News' expansion plans) out of current cash flow to maintain liquidity so that we will be ready to take new opportunities as they arise," he said.
News has often funded its aggressive growth in pay television and other media through either hefty debt or equity issues, which have sometimes met shareholder resistance.
Murdoch also announced that News planned to float its British based digital media technology company, Digital Media Services, within the next two to three weeks and would sell 20 percent of the company.  
Digital Media Services, a combination of News Data Comm and Digi-Media Vision Ltd, would operate in Britain and Israel and produce technology for digital television.
He also later said News' Asian satellite pay television operation, STAR TV, was performing well.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Media magnate Rupert Murdoch said on Tuesday that the first quarter performance of his global media group, The News Corp Ltd, had been below expectations, but that he was still confident of a 20 percent profit rise in 1996/97.
"I am on record as saying that we expect a 20 percent increase in profit for the year," Murdoch told a packed News Corp annual meeting in Adelaide.
"We still expect that and are still aiming for that during the coming year. However, I should say that the first quarter may not be quite up to those expectatations, but we will certainly be striving to make up any shortfall," he said.
In the 1995/96 year ended June 30, News Corp's net profit slipped to A$1.02 billion (US$806 million) from A$1.37 billion in 1994/95.
