The study found, for example, that in 1995 consumers paid more than $1.4 billion for installation and use of 6 million second phone lines devoted to accessing the Internet or other online services. The study said another 8 million second lines were not primarily used for Internet access.
Local phone companies, some of which had not seen the new study, disputed Selwyn's conclusions.
"To suggest that there is no real problem here is mind boggling," Bell Atlantic Corp. spokesman Harry Mitchell said. As Internet companies add huge numbers of phone lines to meet growing demand, "it does impact the capacity of the public telephone network."
America Online Inc., for example, said recently it would double the number of modems it has to connect with subscribers from 200,000 to 400,000 by June.
But phone company studies considered only a few pieces of the phone system, focusing on switchs between Internet service providers and the rest of the network, Selwyn said. While those few switchs might be congested, capacity could be added inexpensively, he said.
The study also cited speeches by some phone company executives who have bragged about the additional revenues generated by increased Internet usage.
"Sales of secondary lines at Bell Atlantic increased more than 50 percent, fuelled by surging demand for Internet and telecommuting applications," company Chief Executive Raymond Smith told Wall Street analysts last March.
The revenue generated substantial profit because "we were able to provision new lines and services from idle capacity in an existing plant," he said.
Company spokesman Mitchell said charges from second lines "were not designed to subsidise Internet service providers."
In the end, all sides agree that a technological solution could eliminate most congestion problems by separating calls carrying voice and data.
SBC Communications Inc., parent of Southwestern Bell, announced last week it would introduce such splitting technology at a cost of less than $100 million.
"Technological solutions are readily available," Paul Misener, chairman of the Internet coalition's steering committee said.
Biotechnology company Celltech Group Plc said late on Tuesday that it expected to post a pre-tax loss of around 10 million stg in the year to September 1997 before moving firmly into profit.
Finance director Peter Allen said in an interview with Reuters that a further 10 million stg receipt next December from the 1996 sale of the Biologics business to Alusuisse-Lonza Holding AG would push the group back into the black the following year. Analysts said around half of the payment would go to Celltech's bottom line.
And a successful launch of Celltech's septic shock treatment, being developed with Germany's Bayer AG, and leukaemia drug, with American Home Products Corp should see the Slough-based group post an operating profit in 1999.
"I think that 1997/1998 will be a better year. Providing both products launch when we expect them to launch we will start to get some contribution from the septic shock product in 1998," he said.
With the Biologics sale swelling cash in the bank to more than 46 million stg at the end of last September, Allen said Celltech would have no need to seek fresh funding for its day-to-day operations. A cash-call would only have to be made if there were problems with the two lead drugs or Celltech decided to make an acquisition.
Cash burn for the current year would be just under 10 million stg, Allen said, with spending on research and development rising by around a fifth to 21 million stg. He predicted that milestone payments would be at similar levels to last year, totalling 5.5 to 6.0 million stg.
Allen added that analysts' forecasts of 3.5 million stg of royalties from the Centocor/Eli Lilly product ReoPro were "fairly conservative."
Chief executive Peter Fellner told Reuters that Celltech remained committed to its strategy of collaborating with major drug companies, but was considering taking more products through to later stages of development itself. He said the group's psoriasis drug, currently in Phase II trials, would be a prime candidate for such a move.
"We can see that by doing it ourselves, at least in Europe, we can control the timetable better ... and probably get a larger slice of the cake," he said.
The chief executive also told Reuters that Celltech could be interested in making an acquisition in the right circumstances. He praised rival Chiroscience Group Plc's $120 million acquisition of U.S. gene technology company Darwin last November as "very creative."
"I think if we could identify a particular set or sets of technology, or alternatively one or two pipeline products, then potentially we would have an interest..but we wouldn't simply go and buy something with a view to making ourselves that bit bigger."
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Toronto stocks closed weaker on Tuesday, dragged into negative territory by tarnished gold stocks and profit-taking.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index fell 37.92 points to finish at 6075.98, the TSE's second straight day of losses. Trading was brisk at 120.9 million shares worth C$2.1 billion ($1.57 billion).
Heavily-weighted gold stocks began the day stronger, but turned softer amid volatile bullion prices.
"We had a negative reversal in gold," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie.
Midland Walwyn analyst Dunnery Best said investors reaped the benefits of Toronto's recent rally by selling some holdings.
"Little bit of profit-taking here and there," Best said, adding "it's been a heck of a run."
Toronto posted four record closing highs during a seven-day winning streak which was broken by Monday's decline.
Beattie said short-term losses could be expected after a gain of about 215 points. "A one-to-three day pull-back is not surprising," she said.
Traders began the day nervously awaiting comments by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on the U.S. economy, but his generally upbeat assessment was a boost for Wall Street equities.
In Toronto, all 14 sub-indices slipped except transportation, pipelines and real estate. Falling sectors included consumer products, conglomerates, oils and media.
Declining stocks outnumbered advances 559 to 454 with 274 issues unchanged.
Active stocks included oil and gas shares. Petro-Canada fell 0.20 to 21.50 on almost 6.1 million shares, topping the most-active list.
Gold prospector Bre-X Minerals Ltd. fell 0.40 to 22.60 while Barrick Gold Corp. inched up 0.05 to close at 36.15.
Barrick said on Tuesday the only obstacle to a joint venture over the Busang gold deposit is agreements with two of Bre-X's Indonesian partners.
Northrock Resources Ltd. rose 0.35 to a close at a 52-week high of 15.35 after announcing it would be flush with cash following a sale of non-strategic oil and gas properties.
Weak Japanese regional banks face a scramble to clean up their bad loan problems before oversight standards are tightened next year, but their room for manoeuvre may be limited by a sagging stock market.
This squeeze on the struggling players in the banking sector could cause more financial collapses and forced liquidations down the road, analysts and banking sources say.
The introduction of formal capital adequacy standards in April next year means banks must deal with non-performing assets or risk being taken to task or closed down by the authorities for failing the new financial health test.
Banking sources and analysts say this is putting pressure on the banks to raise capital in order to bring their ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets to an acceptable balance.
But a weak stock market raises the chances of institutions flunking the capital adequacy test, as it makes it hard for them to raise capital by issuing new shares.
"Smaller banks with a weak capital base must take measures to raise capital before the new system is introduced," said Katsuhito Sasajima, a Nikko Research Centre analyst.
One option which has already proved popular with banks is to issue new shares to existing shareholders at a price pitched midway between the market value and face value. But this is getting harder amid the stock market gloom, Sasajima said.
The slide in the stock market is hurting the banks in a number of ways, eroding the paper profits on their share portfolios that they were using to tackle bad loans, as well as narrowing their options for raising fresh capital.
The new adequacy standards, known as the prompt corrective action (PCA) system, are being introduced to bolster confidence in Japan's banking sector by keeping a closer watch on firms' health and preventing problems spinning out of control.
Under the new system, banks are strictly required to set aside loan loss provisions in line with the global accounting standards. To be classed as "adequately capitalised", financial institutions operating only in Japan must have an adequacy ratio of four percent or more, while internationally active banks must have a ratio of eight percent.
A bank can be ordered to take action to improve its health, and can be liquidated if its capital adequacy ratio falls below zero percent and inspectors pinpoint inadequacies.
At the moment there are no clear Finance Ministry standards, which has been cited as one factor in the ballooning bad loan problem after the collapse of the 1980s asset bubble.
"The imposition of a strict write-off system (via the PCA)...would force a large number of  smaller, weaker banks to the wall," said Yukiko Ohara, an analyst at UBS Securities Ltd, in a recent report.
At the end of last September, problem loans at Japan's deposit-taking financial institutions totalled 29.23 trillion yen ($247 billion), of which 7.3 trillion yen ($61.8 billion) was estimated to be uncovered loan losses, according to Finance Ministry data. But analysts believe the scale is actually much bigger than that.
To boost capital ahead of the new system, about 10 regional banks announced last year that they would issue new shares by the end of March priced halfway between the market and face value. Among them are Hokuetsu Bank Ltd, Hokkoku Bank Ltd, Miyazaki Bank Ltd, Yamagata Bank Ltd and Awa Bank Ltd.
However, analysts say that there are several regional banks with a more urgent need to increase their capital.
Japan's Nihon Keizai Shimbun reported last week that there were 10 regional banks whose capital adequacy ratio was below four percent at the end of March, 1996.
Among them was Hanwa Bank, whose operations -- except for withdrawals -- were suspended by Finance Ministry last November as it was unable to recover bad loans.
Tokyo-based regional bank Tokyo Sowa Bank Ltd has said it had a capital adequacy ratio of 3.8 percent as of March 31, 1996, compared with 4.35 percent a year earlier after going into the red to dispose of a swathe of problem loans, eroding its capital. It disposed of 130 billion yen ($1.10 billion) in problem loans in 1995/96, much more than its competitors and Tokyo Sowa said the problem was now under control.
In order to clear the four percent hurdle by April 1998, the bank will take such steps as procuring subordinated debts and issuing new shares, a bank spokesman said.
Analysts have said that before the PCA system is introduced, the Finance Ministry may have to pull down the shutters at some ailing banks that are unable to break free of bad loans and cannot boost their capital. ($1=118 yen)
The Federal Communications Commission's new rules opening the local telephone market to competition are likely to survive a slew of legal challenges leveled by state regulators and local phone companies, lawyers predicted Wednesday.
They said it is unlikely a federal court would overturn the core of the "interconnection" rules.  They said such a move would happen only if the FCC acted arbitrarily, or grossly overstepped its legal boundaries by making the rules inconsistent with the new telecommunications law.  
But lawyers do not believe the FCC has overstepped the law. "Unless the commission has really overstepped the bounds, no court is going to be eager to overturn this carefully constructed apple cart," said attorney Jeffrey Olson with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison.
Scott Harris, a former top FCC official who is now an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher, echoed that view.
"The commission will eventually win in court," he said.
State regulators already have filed suit to block the new rules, which the FCC issued last month.  
On Wednesday, the New York Public Service Commission said it asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York to annul the rules, which implement the 1996 Telecommunications Act.
The regulator said the FCC rules are an intrusion on the state's authority to set local telecommunications policy.
Last week, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners -- which represents state regulators -- said it would ask the courts to offer a speedy review of the rules.
The regulations are designed to break open local phone monopolies and give long-distance companies, cable television firms and others a crack at offering local phone service.  
Meanwhile, GTE Corp and Southern New England Telecommunications Corp said they would ask a federal appeals court in Washington to block the rules.
BellSouth Corp said it would ask a federal appeals court to overturn the rules, charging that the FCC had "gone far beyond the intent of Congress."
U S West Communications Group is exploring legal options, including a legal challenge or having the court set aside certain components of the rules through a "stay."  
In addition, the United States Telephone Association, a trade group representing the Baby Bells and local phone companies, said it is exploring its legal options and plans to be involved in the appeals process.
But lawyers think the rules will withstand such moves.
"The (FCC) did such a good job here it is going to be sustained on appeal," said Harris of Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher.
Lawyers said that while a court could rule against the FCC on smaller aspects of the interconnection rules, the heart of the rules should remain unscathed.  
Still, lawyers hedged their bets and said it was possible that the FCC could lose and that the legal challengers could pull a rabbit out of the hat and have the rules overturned.
"You may get lucky.  You may win the lottery," said Olson of Paul, Weiss, explaining the tactics behind the challenges.
"If I were a betting man, the odds favor the commission over the petitioners," said former FCC General Counsel Henry Geller.  "But I wouldn't put a lot of money on it."
As Japanese telecoms titan NTT mulls an investment with British Telecommunications (BT) in France, analysts said on Thursday any such deal would be a major coup for Britain's dominant telecoms operator.
One investment banker told Reuters that Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, the world's biggest telecoms company, had approached probably more than two investment banks to evaluate an investment alongside BT in the French telecoms market.
"I am aware approaches have been made and I am also aware that strategically and commercially this is an opportunity which has been given a lot of attention within the senior management of NTT," he said.
With further details largely confidential, the investment banker said only that BT was also exploring whether to strengthen its 1.1 billion pound ($1.8 billion) investment in a 25 percent stake in France's new telecoms operator Cegetel.
Cegetel, which was set up by Cie Generale des Eaux, is seen as the main rival to France Telecom.
"What is being looked at these initial stages is much more to do with access to international traffic and strategically, from NTT's perspective, how it can enter the market," he said.
BT declined to be drawn on reports that NTT was evaluating a 300 million pound ($490.3 million) investment -- or whether it would welcome such a link. But along with its American partner MCI, BT has been openly courting NTT along with MCI for many years.
And major deal in Japan has become increasingly urgent since the NTT was last month freed by the government to pursue international business.
But a BT spokesman would only say: "If NTT have appointed investment bankers that is their decision."
All three global telecoms alliances are vying to get a foothold in the lucrative Asian markets so that they can sell their services to multinational firms.
"If BT were able to get NTT to take this step in France that would be a significant coup for BT because it would be the first step towards tying them in to (BT's) global Concert alliance," said Andrew Harrington, telecoms analyst at Salomon Brothers.
"Japan is the last major frontier for the world telecoms companies...And if you're going to service multinationals, you've really got to be in Japan," he added.
NTT is the obvious partner choice as it controls virtually all of the local network in Japan as well as having a large presence in Asia.
And there are three main global alliances eager to link up with the group; BT and MCI's Concert, Global One, which incorporates France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom and America's Sprint and U.S. telecoms gaint AT&amp;T's loosely-knit global alliance.
But while speculation is swirling that NTT may first move in France, the investment banker said he would be surprised if the group wasn't looking for alliances right across Europe.
France is one of the most important European markets, but companies such as Italy's STET are also looking to see whether they can forge international partnerships with other operators.
"I would think NTT would be looking at a toe-hold in the top four or five markets in Europe," he said. "(It seems) discussions within NTT have moved onto a more advanced stage and I would be surprised if their efforts were being focused exclusively on France. But that is pure speculation." ($1=.6119 Pound)
Shares in British-based drugs group Medeva Plc raced ahead on Thursday following encouraging results from tests of a potential new vaccine and treatment for hepatitis B.
Shares in Medeva, which have climbed steadily this week on the expectation of good news, jumped almost six percent to 296 pence before easing to 289-1/2 pence in early afternoon trading, up 10 pence on the day. The stock has risen more than 13 percent since the start of the year.
In an update of its product portfolio, Medeva also announced a tie-up with small drug discovery group Peptide Therapeutics Plc which could see painful injections against illnesses such as influenza, typhoid and tetanus replaced by nasal sprays or capsules.
The two are also investigating a vaccine against the E-coli bacteria, which has killed 17 people in a recent outbreak in Scotland. Medeva said it spent three million pounds ($4.90 million) taking a 2.5 percent stake in Peptide, whose shares soared nearly 20 percent to 289 pence.
But the market's main focus was on prospects for the hepatitis B vaccine, Hepagene, which many analysts see as a huge potential money-spinner. In an interview with Reuters, Medeva chief executive Bill Bogie said Hepagene could eventually sell "millions of doses" a year, and carry a three-figure price tag.
The vaccine is targeted at a significant group of people who do not respond to existing Hepatitis B vaccines, such as SmithKline Beecham Plc's Engerix-B.
Medeva sees a large market for it, especially among health workers and police who are routinely protected against the infection.
Still more exciting is the drug's potential to treat people who are already infected with Hepatitis B, which is 100 times more infectious than HIV and kills two million people a year around the world. Bogie said tests on people who do not respond to the current treatment, Interferon, showed a 38 percent response rate.
Medeva will decide later this year whether to expand production capacity for Hepagene at its plant in Speke in northwest England or to look elsewhere for extra output.
A major surprise was Medeva's declaration that it would seek regulatory approval for Hepagene in Europe and the United States in 1998, opening up the prospect of first sales in 1999. Bogie said this was a sign of confidence that Medeva would win outstanding battles over patents on both sides of the Atlantic.
It won a key judgement in Britain's House of Lords against U.S. rival Biogen Inc last year. Bogie said Medeva would not be seeking marketing partners for Hepagene beyond its existing agreement with Johnson &amp; Johnson to sell Hepagene in southeast Asia.
"We are not looking for a partner. That does not mean they won't happen but we are fairly confident we can do it ourselves," he said.
Medeva, whose executives spent Thursday morning with analysts, also announced plans to go ahead with development of a purified form of its most profitable product, the behaviour-controlling drug Methylphenidate.
Bogie said the new version of the drug being developed by Chiroscience Group Plc would give Medeva important patent advantages over rivals and cut down the number of times a day Methylphenidate is taken.
The drug is used to control attention deficit disorder in children and young adults. It is widely used in the United States but Bogie said it was starting to be more accepted in Britain and Europe. ($1=.6119 Pound)
Light rains in Ivory Coast after a dry start to January will help mid-crop (April-Sept) cocoa crop development, particularly if they extend into February, a crop analyst said on Thursday.
"We have seen around average rain levels for January so far but a little more now and in February would help," another local crop analyst told Reuters.
Distribution of rains was patchy.
Most fell in central and northern cocoa and coffee areas, particularly around Man, Daloa, Yamoussoukro and Gagnoa, the data showed. Little fell in coastal areas around San Pedro and Abidjan.
"The front (associated with rain) is now over central areas," said one weather analyst. "Central areas have seen a surplus for the period but southern areas are in deficit," he added.
One crop analyst told Reuters rains seemed to have reached most cocoa and coffee areas.
"There seem to have been good light showers in most cocoa areas," said the crop analyst after returning from an up-country tour. "There is no dust on most bush tracks."
Dry harmattan conditions from the Sahara had now retreated northwards after failing to reach southern Ivory Coast as usually expected in late-December or early January.
Exporters and crop inspectors said cocoa humidity levels remained around 8-10 percent against exportable quality of eight percent, despite drying efforts
Coffee farmers have also had drying problems but export activity remained low after shipments put by port sources at 10,492 tonnes for October to December, exporters said.
Quality inspectors said a better picture of coffee humidity and quality after rains would emerge as arrivals picked up.
The data, from Ivory Coast's national weather station, showed the following rainfall for the second 10 days of January in key growing areas plus the commercial capital Abidjan:
Dalao 47.5 mm, Gagnoa 7.8 mm, San Pedro 0.1 mm, Tabou 6.2 mm and Man 0 mm, Dimbokro 4.6 mm, Yamoussoukro 44.8 mm, Aidjan 6 mm, Sassandra n/a, Adiake n/a, Korhogo 0 mm.
No data were available for Adiake and Sassandra.
-- Matthew Bunce Abidjan Newsroom +225 21 90 90
Quick &amp; Reilly Group Inc agreed on Wednesday to buy over-the-counter market-maker  Nash, Weiss Inc, another step by the pioneering discount broker into low-profile, but lucrative financial services businesses.
Terms were not disclosed, but two sons of co-founder Leslie Quick Jr said in an interview that the acquisition of the New Jersey firm was by far the biggest deal Quick &amp; Reilly has done.
Nash, Weiss buys and sells on behalf of retail brokerages some 2,500 stocks listed on the Nasda.  
Salomon Brothers analyst Michael Sears said the acquisition may be the start of a flurry of deals involving market-makers in Nasdaq stocks as reforms in pricing threaten to narrow the often wide spreads on Nasdaq stocks.
Investors have complained that the price differences can amount to as much as 10 percent or more of a stock price.
"Going for market share through acquisitions is one way to make up for narrowing spreads," Sears said.
He said he knew of no pending deals.  
Among the top six independent Nasdaq market makers, Nash, Weiss profits on the spread, or difference between prices the seller and buyer get. It employs about 60 people, Quick &amp; Reilly said.
The biggest Nasdaq market makers are subsidaries of big financial firms.
"This gives us another major leg," said Leslie Quick III, head of the company's U.S. Clearing Corp subsidiary. "We expect this Nasdaq market maker business to be a fourth leg for us."  
Best known as a retail broker, Quick &amp; Reilly is also a significant force through U.S. Clearing in backroom processing of Wall Street trading and owner of the JCC Specialist Corp., the second-largest market-maker, or specialist firm, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The deal really plays well with The Quick &amp; Reilly Group as whole," said Salomon Brothers analyst Michael Sears. "With U.S. Clearing it gives Nash, Weiss a lot of potential for going after instutitional clients."  
Thomas Quick, president of the firm, said Quick &amp; Reilly with Nash, Weiss would court institutional clients by adding to its roster of 2,500 securities in which it makes markets.
"That number will probably go to 3,500 to 4,000," Leslie Quick III said.
The brothers, whose father, chairman Leslie Quick Jr., co-founded the firm in the early 1970s, said the mightily improved  capitalization of Nash, Weiss after the merger with Quick &amp; Reilly will make it much more attractive to large institutional clients.  
Thomas Quick said the leading market-maker for institutional clients had capitalization of about $80 million, or 20 times or more that of Nash, Weiss. Sears said Quick &amp; Reilly had capitalization of about $350 million.
The brothers said they expect revenues at Nash, Weiss to rise dramatically as long as stock trading remains robust and may even double to $120 million by early 1998.
Business has been strong in December and in January and should yield a strong fiscal fourth-quarter, Thomas Quick said. He declined to comment on analysts forecasts of earnings. Sears expects Quick &amp; Reilly to report $0.77 a share for the period ending February 28. Last year, the company reported a normalized $0.91.
Co-founder Leslie Quick Jr serves as chairman and chief executive of the firm, which was the first to offer discounted commissions on New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks after fixed trading commissions were abolished in 1975.
British companies tipped as possible targets for a windfall tax under a Labour Government are unconvinced by the opposition party's promise not to discriminate unfairly between "utilities".
Labour, which is far ahead of Prime Minister John Major's Conservative Party in opinion polls, has said only that it plans to tax what it calls "the excess profits of privatised utilities" if it wins the next election, due by May 22.
With speculation mounting that the party plans to raise up to 10 billion pounds ($16.6 billion) from such a tax, companies as diverse as electricity, water, gas, telecoms, airline and airport firms are being tipped as possible targets.
"If Labour are not going to increase taxes anywhere else -- and utility taxes are not exactly unpopular -- they could decide to go and dig more deeply into the stores of privatisation wealth," said Nigel Hawkins, utilities analyst at Yamaichi.
Hawkins speculates that on a rough calculation based on market value, the 15 electricity groups might be hit by a two billion pound bill, the 10 big water companies with one billion pounds, British Telecommunications with 1.5 billion and British Gas with 500 million.
To raise 10 billion pounds, Labour might stretch the phrase "utilities" to include firms such as former airports authority BAA, Associated British Ports, British Steel, British Aerospace and possibly some bus firms.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, while Labour said it did not want to "discriminate unfairly between companies", none of the firms contacted by Reuters believed they should be affected by Labour's tax proposals.
Labour has argued that Britain's utilities were sold too cheaply on privatisation and have benefited from relatively benign regulation allowing them to stack up windfall profits.
Electricity and water giant United Utilities denied it had benefited from a windfall, BT, the country's dominant telephone company, insisted it was neither a monopoly nor a utility and BAA would not even contemplate such a tax.
"We just think it would be a crazy thing to do...the likelihood is just so small,"a BAA spokesman said.
A spokeswoman for British Gas said the firm had made no provisions for a profit tax. "We prefer to see any details of any proposals before commenting on them. It's all hypothetical at the moment," she said.
But analysts are starting to pencil in calculations.
"I work on a basis, as a very rough guideline, of a tax of between five and 10 percent of total market capitalisation," Hawkins said. "In some cases it means in a single year a utility has no retained earnings."
But ahead of its first budget, the Labour Party declines either to define what it means by privatised utilities, or to disclose how much it plans to raise.
Labour has consistently condemned the so-called "fat cat" executives of the privatised electricity and water companies for what it calls short-changing consumers while lining their own pockets and those of their shareholders with hefty dividends.
But short of conceding that it does not consider British Airways a utility, the party will not be drawn on which other companies will fall into its tax net.
"We will consult with the regulators before we make any announcement about the definition of the tax, who it will apply to, its scale. And that won't happen until we're in government," an aide to Labour's finance spokesman Gordon Brown said.
The party, which has taken extensive legal advice, added: "No amount of lobbying by companies or the Conservatives will make any difference. In the way we intend to introduce it, we're 100 percent convinced there will be no legal, financial or technical obstables to the introduction of a windfall tax." ($1=.6035 Pound)
The Toronto stock market closed softer for a third straight day on Wednesday, depressed by losses on Wall Street.
"Canada very often is just following New York," said Montreal-based portfolio consultant Ron Meisels.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index fell 17.31 points to close at 6058.67. Trading was brisk on turnover of 123.1 million shares worth C$1.97 billion ($1.47 billion).
Wall Street was volatile after analysts were disappointed with fourth quarter earnings from computer giant International Business Machines Corp., they said.
Toronto's three-day decline is considered a healthy breather after strong gains earlier this year, Meisels said. "A pause is perfectly natural."
Toronto's 14 sub-indices were equally split between gaining and losing ones. The weaker side was led by battered golds, oils, base metals and consumer products. Stronger sectors included media, transports and pipelines.
Declining stocks outnumbered advances 559 to 450 while 271 traded unchanged.
Shares in the nation's largest airline Air Canada rose 0.75 to 8.00 on ten million shares. Investors were comparing Air Canada's favourable outlook with financially troubled competitor Canadian Airlines Corp. as both waded back into a profit-cutting seat sale, one analyst said.
Small prospector Golden Rule Resources Ltd. rose 1.10 to close at 12.00 on speculation about a property in Ghana.
Barrick Gold Corp. slipped 0.60 to 35.55 after news that potential partner Bre-X Minerals Ltd. said it acknowledged the 30-day deadline provided by the Indonesian government and will strive to resolve issues with its Indonesian partners. Bre-X shares rose 0.05 to 22.65.
Milumil babymilk powder, used by around 25,000 mothers in Britain and Ireland, was withdrawn from from stores and clinics on Friday after a scare over Salmonella poisoning.
Milupa, part of the Dutch specialist food producer Nutricia NV, said it was withdrawing its Milumil milk powder in Britain because of an unconfirmed link with 12 cases of a rare form of the Salmonella bug.
The company later followed suit in Ireland after consultations with the Irish government, despite saying that no incidents had been reported there.
The company was forced to launch a damage limitation exercise after it was contacted by Britain's Department of Health on Thursday afternoon.
Government scientists had identified 12 cases of Salmonella anatum infection, leading to gastro-enteritis, in children under 12 months old which followed consumption of the French-made milk, sold as "Milumil for Hungrier Bottle Fed Babies."
The Health Department said that only two of the children involved were admitted to hospital and all had since recovered. However it told parents and other carers to stop using the product immediately and ordered the withdrawal of all stocks.
"There is no direct, incontrovertible proof that (the cause) is Milumil. It is a statistical association but we have to take every precaution," a company spokeswoman told Reuters.
Shares in Nutricia were suspended for around an hour in Amsterdam after falling sharply. However they later recovered much of their losses, closing down 9.70 guilders at 267, above a low of 260.50 guilders.
Milupa said it would hold a thorough investigation at the French plant where the milk was made, and added that production of the product had been suspended.
Sales of Milumil milk powder total between six and seven million pounds a year, and the product has a market share of around five percent. Another Milumil product, Milumil Ready to Feed, is not affected.
Dutch-based Nutricia, which also owns the Cow &amp; Gate brand, is no stranger to controversy.
In June 1993, it withdrew all of its powdered baby food products in the United States because of possible Salmonella contamination.
And 140 million guilders were wiped off the value of the company in November of the same year after it recalled batches of its Olvarit baby food when excessive levels of disinfectant were found in some samples.
Japan's third biggest securities house, Nikko Securities Co, will focus on cutting personnel and other costs as it braces for "Big Bang" financial reforms, executive vice president Masao Yuki said on Friday.
"The Big Bang reforms will mean the survival of the fittest," he told Reuters in an interview.
"The (Japanese) financial sector must correct its high-cost structure to cope with the Big Bang. If it doesn't, we will lose out to our Western rivals," he said.
The most important and urgent issue for Nikko is how to cut personnel costs while raising the salaries of talented young workers and maintaining overall morale, he said.
He acknowledged this would be a very difficult task and he had no specific ideas at this time, but Japan's manufacturers had already made impressive progress in this area.
"(Japanese) manufacturers say that brokerages and financial institutions have been living the good life. That's why they say it will be difficult for us to restructure," he said.
Tinkering with personnel practices is widely considered taboo at large Japanese companies.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto unveiled plans in November for a five-year "Big Bang" set of policy moves to liberalise Japan's financial markets and catch up with reforms carried out more than a decade ago in Europe and North America.
Market sources said that since late last year the Tokyo stock market has focused on the negative impact of the Big Bang reform on Japanese financial institutions, as they would heat up the competition and create losers as well as winners in the financial markets.
On Friday, the key Nikkei average of 225 leading shares ended down 220.10 points, or 1.23 percent, at 17,689.36. The index has shed nearly 2,000 points since the beginning of this year, led by the banking and brokerage sector.
Yuki said that, while Tokyo's Big Bang would eventually provide business opportunities for brokers and help revitalize Japan's financial markets, it would also pressure brokers' earnings in the near term.
"It is inevitable that we'll face a tough fight for profits in the near term," he said. "Such a severe business environment may result in an industry-wide shakeout including mergers and acquisitions."
Last week, Moody's Investors Service issued a grim rating outlook for Japanese brokerages, noting that the securities industry was faced with the dual challenges of operating in volatile markets and strategically repositioning itself in a deregulated landscape.
The likely elimination of fixed commission rates on stockbroking was cited as one move likely to undermine profitability at many brokerages, it said.
Yuki said that there would be no quick remedies to boost currently sagging bank and brokerage stocks, but policies were need to ensure Japan's economic recovery and implement drastic reforms of the nation's economic structure.
He added that the abolition of Japan's securities transaction tax, as urged by some politicians and business leaders, would also help Japan's stock market.
Japan is the only country with a securities transaction tax.
"I don't advocate any government moves to artificially prop up stock prices ... but announcing the abolition (of the tax by the end of March) would have a good effect on stocks," he said.
He said that, since Japan has already announced a sweeping deregulation of foreign exchange transactions beginning in 1998, failure to abolish the transaction tax would encourage institutional investors to go abroad to trade Japanese stocks due to higher costs here.
Database software company Informix Corp. said Friday it filed a lawsuit against Oracle Corp., accusing its bigger rival of stealing trade secrets by hiring away its employees.
Oracle hired 11 Informix employees from Informix's Portland, Ore., research and development centre. All 11 workers quit on Wednesday morning, said Informix Chief Executive Phil White.
Informix stock fell $1.50, or 6.6 percent, to $21.375 in active trading on Nasdaq. Oracle stock fell 87.5 cents to $39.625, also on Nasdaq.
"This is a blatant effort by Oracle," said White. "They're behind significantly technically. We're not going to let someone who's significantly behind technically just buy his way in."
Oracle officials called the lawsuit "ridiculous" and said the 11 programmers approached Oracle on their own. They also had approached Microsoft Corp. about jobs, said Jerry Held, Oracle senior vice president of server technologies.
"This is a group of senior developers that was very frustrated by the lack of vision of Informix top managers," Held said. "We did no active recruiting. I was called absolutely out of the blue" when the former Informix staff joined Oracle.
The lawsuit, filed on Thursday in Oregon Circuit Court in Portland, seeks unspecified damages. Informix on Thursday also obtained a temporary injunction barring the former employees from giving trade secrets to Oracle, Informix said.
Informix also charged Gary Kelley, a former Informix product development vice president who left for Oracle, with breach of contract. Kelley did not return phone calls to Oracle's Portland facility.
Informix, based in Menlo Park, Calif., and Oracle, based 20 miles north in Redwood Shores, Calif., both write sophisticated programmes that store and retrieve huge amounts of information in corporate computer networks.
The companies for years have been fighting a marketing war touting their advances in database technology with each new release of their respective flagship products.
White said he believed Oracle was interested in gaining Informix's expertise in writing software for so-called massively parallel computers -- top-of-the-line machines that can process huge amounts of transactions simultaneously.
The 11 Informix employees who left for Oracle were working on this type of product, White said.
Held said Oracle does not have an interest in Informix's technology because Oracle is ahead in that area.
"Oracle has had parallel technology for years," Held said. "Informix is playing catch-up. Phil has a knack for being behind and saying he's ahead."
Technology debates aside, the spat is the most serious between the companies in years. White, normally a publicity-shy executive, said he was livid about Oracle's tactics and intended to make the lawsuit a political cause in Silicon Valley for preventing employee raids.
White said he personally went to the home of Oracle Chief Executive Larry Ellison on Thursday night to discuss the issue, but Ellison was in Hong Kong. Both men live in the same small town in Silicon Valley.
"I'm doing this not only for Informix and for our shareholders but also for the industry," White said. "We can't let companies come in and throw big financial incentives and walk away with intellectual property we spent hundreds of millions of dollars developing."
In recent years, several software rivals in Silicon Valley have accused each other of trade secret theft by employee snatching.
In 1992, Borland International Inc. accused a former employee of sending confidential electronic mail to new employer Symantec Corp.. Last year, Cadence Design Systems Inc.. filed a similar charges against direct competitor Avant Corp..
The court has set a hearing in the Informix case for Feb. 7.
Prospects for comprehensive reform of U.S. banking and financial services laws remain bright despite a far-reaching proposal being considered by the Clinton Administration that has upset some banks.
Most in government and the industry now agree that the 60-year-old Glass-Steagall Act separating banking from other financial activities like insurance and securities dealing should be scrapped.
But there is little consensus about removing the barriers between financial firms and other commercial companies, a position the administration is actively considering for its reform proposal expected in the next two months.
"The feeling is still very, very good that everyone wants Glass-Steagall reformed," former Congressman and bank lobbyist Larry LaRocco said.
With almost two years left for the 105th Congress, legislators should have sufficient time to come to agreement, added LaRocco, managing director of the American Bankers Association's securities section.
"There's tremendous momentum building. Maybe it won't be in 1997 but certainly within the 105th," he said.
Federal courts and regulators spurred the momentum last year by lifting many restrictions on banks' non-banking activities, LaRocco noted.
As previously reported, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin is weighing the recommendations of a task force headed by Under Secretary John Hawke to remove all barriers between financial and non-financial companies. Under the plan, a company like General Electric Co. or Microsoft Corp. could own or be owned by a financial services company like Citicorp or Aetna.
"There has been an enormous amount of movement on the whole issue in the last two months," a person familiar with the administration's deliberations said.
Among various bills in Congress and the administration, the commerce issue "is the last issue that's left, which is an indication of how far we've come. For the first time, the omens are good and this is the only hang-up," the person said.
The remaining "hang-up" has raised strong opposition from House Banking Committee Chairman Jim Leach along with smaller banks and consumer groups.
"There is no public support and no economic need for the conglomeration of financial institutions and other businesses," the Iowa Republican said. "The nation needs to be concerned about creating jobs, not simply consolidating ownership."
If the administration pushes ahead with the Hawke plan, it would create a "much longer debate and prolong the process," one Leach staffer added. "This is an issue which (Leach) feels has not been fully debated," the staffer said.
Small bankers agree. "It's a proposal that would essentially change and concentrate not only the financial structure of the United States but the whole economic and financial structure," said Ken Guenther, executive vice president of the Independent Bankers Association of America.
Such concentration would be bad for the economy, Guenther added. "It is based on very debatable assumptions."
One bill in Congress includes a possible compromise approach, lobbyists noted. Representative Marge Roukema's bill would allow banking, insurance and securities firms to merge and would allow such companies to derive up to 25 percent of their revenues from non-financial activities.
The New Jersey Republican, chairwoman of the House Banking Committee's Financial Institutions subcommittee, has lined up some big guns behind her bill. The Alliance for Financial Modernisation, a coalition representing most the large trade groups involved in financial services, broadly endorsed the bill.
Database software company Informix Corp. said Friday it filed a lawsuit against Oracle Corp. accusing its bigger rival of stealing trade secrets by hiring away its employees.
Oracle hired 11 Informix research and development employees from Informix's Portland, Ore., research and development centre. All 11 workers quit Wednesday morning, said Informix Chief Executive Phil White.
"This is a blatant effort by Oracle," said White. "They're behind significantly technically. We're not going to let someone who's significantly behind just buy his way in."
Oracle officials could not immediately be reached for comment.
The lawsuit, filed Thursday in Oregon Circuit Court in Portland, seeks unspecified damages. Informix on Thursday also obtained a temporary injunction barring the former employees from giving trade secrets to Oracle, Informix said.
Informix also charged Gary Kelley, a former Informix product development vice president who left for Oracle, with breach of contract. Kelley did not return phone calls to Oracle's Portland facility.
Oracle stock dropped 62.5 cents to $39.875 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq, where it was among the most actively traded shares. Informix lost $1.625 to $21.25, also on Nasdaq.
Informix, based in Menlo Park, Calif., and Oracle, based 20 miles to the north in Redwood Shores, Calif., both write sophisticated database programmes that store and retrieve huge amounts of information in corporate computer networks.
The companies for years have been fighting a marketing war touting their advances in database technology with each new release of their respective flagship products.
White said he believed Oracle was interested in gaining Informix's expertise in writing software for so-called massively parallel computers -- top-of-the-line machines that can process huge amounts of transactions, such as bank ATM withdrawals, simultaneously.
The 11 Informix employees who left for Oracle were working on this type of product, White said.
White, normally a publicity-shy executive, said he was livid about Oracle's tactics and intended to make the lawsuit a political cause for preventing raids in high-technology industries.
White said he personally went to the home of Oracle Chief Executive Larry Ellison on Thursday night to discuss the issue, but Ellison was in Hong Kong. Both men live in the same small town in the hills of Silicon Valley.
"I'm doing this not only for Informix and for our shareholders but also for the industry," White said. "We can't let companies come in and throw big financial incentives and walk away with intellectual property we spent hundreds of millions of dollars developing."
In recent years, several software rivals in Silicon Valley have accused each other of trade secret theft by employee snatching.
In 1992, Borland International Inc. accused a former employee of sending confidential electronic mail to new employer Symantec Corp.. Last year, Cadence Design Systems Inc.(. filed a similar charges against direct competitor Avant! Corp.
The court has set a hearing in the Informix case for Feb 7.
With the Clinton administration busily reworking its 1995 proposal overhauling the U.S. financial services sector, one faction in the Treasury Department is recommending a more far reaching plan this time around, people familiar with the matter said.
Under Secretary of the Treasury John Hawke, who oversees an administration working group on bank reform, is pressing for a plan allowing commercial companies to own financial companies, they said.  
The Hawke plan is said to be in front of Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, who carries great weight with the President on financial policy issues.
Most in the administration and on Capital Hill agree that the 60-year-old laws separating banking from other financial activities like insurance and securities dealing should be scrapped.
But there is still widespread disagreement about letting outside companies into financial businesses. "There's a major war brewing," one lobbyist familiar with the plan said. "People are choosing up sides and getting to the White House."  
A spokesman for the Treasury did not have an immediate comment.
Two years ago, the Clinton plan took a middle path on the issue between House Banking chairman Jim Leach's bill and a proposal put forward by Senate Banking Committee chairman Sen. Alfonse D'Amato.
Leach remains strongly opposed to allowing non-financial firms into the financial services sector. The Iowa Republican introduced a bill last month that would allow banks, insurance companies and securities firms to affiliate only amongst themselves.  
A second House bill, backed by Rep. Marge Roukema, would allow a financial services company to derive up to 25 percent of its revenue from non-financial activities.
Sen. D'Amato, by contrast, favors lifting all limits, allowing a company like General Electric or Ford to own and operate a bank. D'Amato is expected to reintroduce his bank reform measure in the next few weeks, a spokesman said.
The notion of allowing commercial companies into banking alarms consumer advocates and small banks.
Veteran consumer advocate Ralph Nader wrote a letter to Secretary Rubin last week opposing the Hawke recommendations.
Common ownership "would create powerful conglomerates that would dominate the nation's economy," Nader warned in the letter obtained by Reuters.
"The distortion of the allocation of bank credit ultimately would have a substantial adverse effect on competition and the overall productivity of the economy," Nader wrote.
Small bankers also oppose the plan, which could lead to further consolidation and concentration in the banking industry, lobbyists said.
((--202-898-8312))
The lean times for the video game software industry appear to be over.
Three of the largest game developers on Thursday reported results for the crucial December quarter that were better than Wall Street expected.
Electronic Arts Inc., Activision Inc. and Spectrum Holobyte Inc. said strong sales of games for personal computers and next-generation video game consoles, such as the Sony PlayStation, contributed to the strong results.
For the past year, the video game software industry had been in a funk while consumers waited for the release of advanced game machines from Sony Corp., Sega Enterprises and Nintendo Corp. The industry also lacked blockbusters to draw customers to the video game isle at stores.
The release of the PlayStation last year and the Nintendo 64 this year has revitalized the industry, analysts said.
"People are underestimating how truly red hot sales of the video game systems are," said David Farina, an analyst at brokerage William Blair &amp; Co. in Chicago. "If history is any guide, we're in for a strong two-year cycle for my investors, cross my finger."
After the market closed, Electronic Arts, the biggest U.S. game publisher, said net income for its fiscal third quarter, ended Dec. 31, rose 25 percent to $36.7 million, or 66 cents a share, from $29.3 million, or 54 cents, in the same quarter a year ago.
Electronic Arts' revenue in the quarter jumped 13 percent to $271.1 million from $240.1 million on strong sales of games for the PlayStation and PCs, the company said.
Activision, another big game vendor, said net income in its Christmas quarter more than doubled to $4.12 million, or 28 cents, from $1.95 million, or 13 cents, a year ago.
Spectrum Holobyte, based in Alameda, Calif., said net income in the December quarter was $5.7 million, or 20 cents a share, more than double the 9 cents Wall Street expected. In the same quarter last year, Spectrum Holobyte had a loss of $9.95 million, or 41 cents a share.
The strong earnings likely will continue into the March quarter, analysts said, as consumers buy a new generation of PCs based on Intel Corp.'s MMX technology, which soups up the graphics capabilities of the machines.
Milumil babymilk powder, used by around 25,000 mothers in Britain and Ireland, was withdrawn from British stores and clinics on Friday after a scare over Salmonella poisoning.
Milupa, part of the Dutch specialist food producer Nutricia NV, said it was withdrawing its Milumil milk powder because of an unconfirmed link with 12 cases of a rare form of the Salmonella bug.
Dennis Segal, managing director of Milupa UK, told reporters the company was also in talks with the Irish government, although no incidents had been reported there.
The company launched a damage limitation exercise after it was contacted by Britain's Department of Health on Thursday afternoon.
Government scientists had identified 12 cases of Salmonella anatum infection, leading to gastro-enteritis, in children under 12 months old which followed consumption of the French-made milk, sold as "Milumil for Hungrier Bottle Fed Babies."
The Department of Health said that only two of the children involved were admitted to hospital and all had since recovered. However it told parents and other carers to stop using the product immediately and ordered the withdrawal of all stocks.
"There is no direct, incontrovertible proof that (the cause) is Milumil. It is a statistical association but we have to take every precaution," a company spokeswoman told Reuters.
Shares in Nutricia were suspended for around an hour in Amsterdam after falling sharply. However they later recovered some of their losses, trading down 9.70 guilders at 267, above a low of 260.50 guilders.
Milupa said it would hold a thorough investigation at the French plant where the milk was made, and added that production of the product had been suspended.
Sales of Milumil milk powder total between six and seven million pounds a year, and the product has a market share of around five percent. Another Milumil product, Milumil Ready to Feed, is not affected.
Dutch-based Nutricia, which also owns the Cow &amp; Gate brand, is no stranger to controversy.
In June 1993, it withdrew all of its powdered baby food products in the United States because of possible Salmonella contamination.
And 140 million guilders were wiped off the value of the company in November of the same year after it recalled batches of its Olvarit baby food when excessive levels of disinfectant were found in some samples.
Shares in Britain's pharmaceutical industry were sharply higher across the board on Thursday, bouyed by sterling's weakness, continued takeover speculation, positive broker comment and upbeat news from Medeva Plc.
Shares in the "big three" of Glaxo Wellcome Plc, SmithKline Beecham Plc and Zeneca Group all rose.
Glaxo Wellcome added 3.3 percent or 31 pence to 955, SmithKline Beecham was up 4.4 percent or 37 pence at 880 1/2 and Zeneca rose 3.0 percent or 50 1/2 pence to 1,723.
Traders said sterling's sharp falls on the foreign exchanges overnight had been a major factor behind the gains, easing some of the anxiety over the effect of a strong pound on crucial overseas earnings.
Shares in the major companies fell earlier this month after analysts at NatWest Securities cut 1997 earnings estimates because of the currency impact.
"Currency is very important," said Panmure Gordon analyst Robin Gilbert. "There is a general view that the sector has lagged a bit because of currency, and we had something of a rebound."
Speculation that Roche Holding AG is preparing to announce a merger or takeover may also be buoying Zeneca and SmithKline Beecham, analysts said, although scepticism about such a move is widespread.
The two were further helped by Salomon Brothers' decision to place a buy stance on their stocks, with a hold on Glaxo Wellcome.
Shares in Medeva, which has long traded at a discount to other large drug stocks, rose 8 1/2 pence to 288 pence on the back of "positive" trial data from its hepatitis B vaccine Hepagene, which the company hopes will act both to stop people getting the disease and to help those already infected.
News that Medeva had formed a collaboration with Peptide Therapeutics Plc, one of the smallest stocks in the sector, made it the biggest gainer, jumping nearly 20 percent or 46 1/2 pence to 288.
The two companies hope to develop a range of non-injectable vaccines, and Medeva cemented the link by taking a 2 1/2 percent stake in Peptide for 3 million pounds.
Other strong biotech performers included the flagship British Biotech Plc, which was squeezed up 11 percent or 23 1/2 pence to 232 as several sell positions finally unwound.
Celltech Group Plc also continued to benefit from optimism about its two lead drugs, for septic shock and leukaemia, rising 17 1/2 pence to 637 1/2.
Sears, Roebuck and Co. Thursday said earnings jumped 24.6 percent in the fourth quarter, boosted by strong sales and improved profit margins during the Christmas selling season.
"We ended the year with excellent fourth-quarter results, which are even more impressive given the strength of last year's fourth quarter," Sears Chairman Arthur Martinez said in a statement.
December included the company's first ever back-to-back billion-dollar sales weeks, he said. The Christmas season is crucial for retailers since store chains typically earn half or more of their annual profit during the period.
"They had a great 1996 capped off by the best Christmas of any department store operator," said Alan Rifkin, analyst at Dain Bosworth Inc. He noted that Sears' sales at comparable stores rose 9.5 percent in December.
The nation's second-largest retailer said earnings rose to $567 million, or $1.42 a share, in the quarter, from $455 million,  or $1.13 a share, in the 1995 period. Sales grew 10.8 percent to $12.04 billion from $10.87 billion.
The earnings beat Wall Street forecasts that averaged $1.38 a share, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
But Sears' stock fell $2 to $49.125 on the New York Stock Exchange, mostly on profit-taking.
"The stock was up strongly early in the week and I think people are just taking profits," Rifkin said.
Analysts said Sears gained from its decision to remodel some stores and expand its clothing offerings.
"Clearly they're gaining market share and clearly they're doing the right thing and the consumer likes what she sees when she goes into the store," said Karen Sack, analyst at the S&amp;P Equity Group.
Operating income from domestic operations rose 14.8 percent to $531 million in the quarter as revenue rose 11.6 percent to $10.92 billion. Comparable-store sales rose 5.4 percent for the quarter.
Operating income from domestic operations for all of 1996 rose 20.9 percent to $1.28 billion, while revenues increased 10.2 percent to $34.85 billion.
Gross margins as a percent of merchandise sales rose to 27.9 percent from 26.9 percent in the 1995 period.
Rifkin said margins were not likely to rise as much in 1997 as in the fourth quarter, but said cost-cutting should drive earnings growth this year.
He forecast earnings at $3.60 a share in 1997 and $4.25 a share in 1998, up from $3.12 a share in 1996.
International operations, including merchandising and credit operations in Canada and Mexico, earned $36 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $7 million in the 1995 period.
The increase in earnings was largely attributable to improved performance at both Sears Canada and Sears Mexico, lower selling and administrative expenses at Sears Mexico, and writeoffs of Sears Canada properties in the year-ago quarter, it said.
Sears, based in Hoffman Estates, Ill., operates more than 800 department stores and 2,500 other stores offering clothing, home and automotive products and services.
While earnings rose in the quarter, they fell for the year, in part because 1995 included a gain of $776 million from the former Allstate Corp. subsidiary, which was spun off to Sears' shareholders in June 1995.
For all of 1996, Sears earned $1.27 billion, or $3.12 a share, in net profits, down from $1.80 billion, or $4.50 a share, in 1995. Sales grew 9 percent to $38.22 billion from $35.0 billion.
Toronto stocks ended softer on Thursday but avoided the massive sell-off on Wall Street as heavyweight bank and transport issues restrained losses in the Canadian market, analysts said.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index slipped 18.16 points to end at 6040.51, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 94.28 points to 6755.75.
Trading was brisk with 117 million shares changing hands worth C$2.19 billion ($1.63 billion), the fourth highest on record.
"This is mostly a Dow-blue chip sell-off," one trader said.
Strength in the TSE's financial services and transport sectors restrained Toronto's decline.
Computer trading programs drove Wall Street lower after selling was triggered by fears that the Dow was reaching stratospheric levels, traders said.
"They were hysterically euphoric in the morning and hysterically nervous in the afternoon," said Oppenheimer &amp; Co. Inc. chief investment strategist Michael Metz.
Traders attributed some of the bearish sentiment to news that investment strategist Elaine Garzarelli had turned bullish on U.S. stocks, reversing her call for a 10 to 15 percent correction. Traders said this latest conversion to the bull camp raised concerns among some investors.
Of the TSE's 14 sub-indices, 10 lost ground led by media, golds, base metals and utilities. Gaining sectors included transports, real estate and financial services.
Declining stocks outpaced advances 525 to 456 with 288 issues unchanged.
--- HOT STOCKS ---
* Agrium Inc. topped the most-active list, rising 0.60 to 20.50 on 3.9 million shares. Agrium announced plans for a share buyback and US$300 million debt issue on Thursday.
* In financial services, Royal Bank of Canada slipped 0.10 to 49.80 on 3.0 million shares. The bank urged shareholders to reject an activist's proposals to limit senior executive pay at its annual meeting in March.
Among other banks, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce rose 0.60 to 59.10, while Bank of Nova Scotia improved 0.10 to 46.75.
* Gold miner Placer Dome Inc. sank 0.70 to 26.90 after announcing a construction delay at its Las Cristinas gold mine in Venezuela.
World-wide Australian transport group TNT Ltd reported another annual profit slump on Wednesday, but promised the sale of its troubled airline and other reforms would produce strong profit growth in current year.
"We haven't got any numbers, but it should be quite strong relative to the position we're starting from," TNT managing director David Mortimer said of prospective profit growth, in an interview with Reuters.
TNT's net profit for the year to June 30 fell to A$9.84 million (US$7.79 million) from A$40.01 million in 1994/95 and A$105.05 million in 1993/94.
Mortimer said a sharp drop profits from Australia's Ansett Airlines, 50 percent owned by TNT, and losses from its Brazilian operations and local general freight business offset good revenue growth in TNT's core operations.
He said profits from these core activities of domestic and international time-sensitive freight and logistics had grown 48.7 percent to A$165.3 million in 1995/96.
TNT had moved to excise these loss-making units and focus on profitable core activities, he said.
"We've dealt with the (Australian) LCL (Less Than Container Load) business -- that's been closed, and we've sold Brazil," he said.
"What's the saying ... when in doubt shoot it or fix it."
TNT would also look to sell other unprofitable, non-core businesses, Mortimer said. "We've got other non-core activities and to the extent that they don't perform, then they will be vulnerable to sale
"The inconsistency in our results has come from these fringe activities...it's that volatility around the earnings base that says we have to concentrate on core activities and get out of the non-core 'riff-raff,' if you like," he said.
Earlier this week TNT announced the finalisation of plans to sell its stake in Ansett to Air New Zealand Ltd for cash receipts of A$325 million. The other 50 percent of Ansett is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd.
TNT's remaining non-core activities include an airline leasing company jointly owned with News Corp, some shipping operations between New Zealand and Australia, a mono-rail in Sydney and some information technology assets.
Mortimer would not single out any of these as potential immediate sale prospects, but said they were vulnerable while they were not making profits.
He said the airline leasing firm, Ansett Worldwide, needed to have its capital base restructured before it could be sold.
Shareholders, however, took the profit slump in their stride, having actually forecast a slight loss rather than a slight profit.
Net profit before abnormals, but after preference dividends, fell to A$0.6 million from A$38.48 million in 1994/95.
Analysts had expected a pre-abnormal, post preferences loss of between A$4 million and A$22 million.
TNT's shares closed up three cents at A$1.47.
(A$1 = US$0.7920)
Australasian food group Goodman Fielder Ltd is expected to report a slightly higher annual net profit before abnormals early on Thursday, as firmer margins in some areas are seen largely offset by higher grain costs.
"I'll be looking for some margin growth, but also there's been some strong raw materials cost increases," one Sydney analyst said, adding he was forecasting a pre-abnormals net profit of just under A$100 million.  
The median forecast in BZW Australia's Barceps survey of analysts was for a A$100.0 million pre-abnormals net profit for the year to June 30, 1996.
Forecasts ranged from A$97.0 million to A$102.3 million, compared with the A$97.3 million profit posted in 1994/95.
"There'll be a big impact from the grain prices in the second half and going into the first half of this (1996/97 year)," another Sydney analyst said, estimating extra grain costs of about A$60 million.  
But analysts expected the cost of grain, a major input in Goodman's breadmaking and chicken operations, would ease back later in calendar 1996.
The higher grain costs were likely to have been offset somewhat in the second half of 1995/96 by lower packaging and palm oil costs, some analysts said.
Profit expectations are in a tight band in part because of Goodman's own comments about the result in early August.
Goodman chief executive David Hearn said then that the pre-abnormal profit would be around A$100 million.  
"We're saying that there will be a small increase in pre-abnormal profit in the 0-5 percent range from last year and since we made A$97 million last year, zero to five means somewhere between A$97 and A$102 million," Hearn said.
Goodman then also announced it would post abnormal losses of up to A$75 million in 1995/96, including a revaluation of its loss-making poultry operations.
This would produce a net profit after abnormals of around A$25 million, Hearn said then.  
Analysts said however most of the interest would be centred on Goodman's strategic plans for recovery from its profit slump of recent years.
Goodman Fielder shares closed down a cent at A$1.31 on Wednesday.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Over half a million people insured with Australian life office National Mutual Holdings Ltd have rushed to buy shares in the group in what the insurer said on Wednesday was a "fabulous" start to its stock market debut.
National Mutual, which plans to list on the Australian and New Zealand exchanges next month, announced on Wednesday that half of its 1.2 million policy-holders had elected to take up their entitlement to shares in the multi-billion-dollar float.
"National Mutual Holdings will have the largest shareholder base of any company in Australia and New Zealand ... it's a fabulous result," National Mutual managing director Geoff Tomlinson told reporters and insurance analysts in Melbourne.
Tomlinson also set an offer price of A$1.50 (US$1.18) per share for retail investors and indicated a price range of between A$1.35 and A$1.55 for institutional investors, which will bid for at least 60 percent of the shares on public sale.
Once listed on the Australian bourse, National Mututal will figure in the top 50 companies by market capitalisation.
The retail price of A$1.50 a share translates to a market capitalisation of about A$2.5 billion ($1.98 billion).
"This excellent response to the offer by our policy-holders has demonstrated a vote of confidence in National Mutual and our strategy for the future," Tomlinson said.
National Mutual, the first big Australian life insurer to demutualise and destined also to be the first major life office to list on the Australian market, is floating its shares partly in a bid to become a global player focused on Asia.
National Mututal Asia Ltd is already the second-biggest life office in Hong Kong and is lobbying for a licence to operate in China, the group has said.
National Mutual Holdings will be owned 51 percent on listing by French insurance giant Axa. The float will help National Mutual become "a member of a truly global financial services group", Tomlinson said on Wednesday.
Joint lead manager for the issue, brokerage J.B. Were &amp; Son, said the strong demand for shares by policy-holders should ensure good demand from institutional investors.
"I think there will be pretty keen competition for it," said J.B. Were group managing director Terrence Campbell.
"There's plenty of Asian interest but as far as we can tell, there's plenty of interest in the (United) States and Europe as well," he told reporters in Melbourne.
Tomlinson and other National Mutual executives will leave Australia next week for a two-week roadshow of Asia, Europe and the United States to sell the offer to institutions.
Under the float, retail investors will be offered a refund if the final institutional price is below A$1.50, but they will pay no more if the final price exceeds A$1.50.
"Given the high policy-holder take-up (of shares), it then gives us more confidence ... that at the price of A$1.50, we were pitching at the right level," said John Magowan, head of stockbroking at joint lead manager McIntosh Corp Ltd.
Insurance analysts predicted on Wednesday the demand from policy-holders would help to ensure the final price determined by institutional bidding would fall in the upper end of the group's indicative price range.
"That will boost the price just because of the supply and demand situation," a Sydney-based analyst told Reuters.
"I think it (the institutional price range) is a realistic price," insurance analyst Nick Selvaratnam of brokerage BZW Australia, told Reuters.
The offer prices compare with a net tangible asset backing for the group of A$1.39 per share and an appraisal value, accounting for future profits, of A$1.60 per share.
(A$=US$0.79)
Over half a million people insured with Australian life office National Mutual Holdings Ltd have rushed to buy shares in the group, in what the insurer said on Wednesday was a "fabulous" start to its stock market float.
National Mutual, which plans to list on the Australian and New Zealand exchanges next month, announced on Wednesday that half of its 1.2 million policy-holders had elected to take up their entitlement to shares in the multi-billion-dollar float.  
"National Mutual Holdings will have the largest shareholder base of any company in Australia and New Zealand ... It's a fabulous result," National Mutual managing director Geoff Tomlinson told reporters and insurance analysts in Melbourne.
Tomlinson also set an offer price of A$1.50 (US$1.18) per share for retail investors and indicated a price range of between A$1.35 and A$1.55 for institutional investors, which will bid for at least 60 percent of the shares on public sale.
Once listed on the Australian bourse, National Mututal will figure in the top 50 companies by market capitalisation.  
The retail price of A$1.50 a share translates to a market capitalisation of about A$2.5 billion ($1.98 billion).
"This excellent response to the offer by our policy-holders has demonstrated a vote of confidence in National Mutual and our strategy for the future," Tomlinson said.
National Mutual, the first big Australian life insurer to demutualise and destined also to be the first major life office to list on the Australian market, is floating its shares partly in a bid to become a global player focused on Asia.  
National Mututal Asia Ltd is already the second-biggest life office in Hong Kong and is lobbying for a licence to operate in China, the group has said.
National Mutual Holdings will be owned 51 percent on listing by French insurance giant Axa. The float will help National Mutual become "a member of a truly global financial services group", Tomlinson said on Wednesday.
Joint lead manager for the issue, brokerage J. B. Were and Son, said the strong demand for shares by policy-holders should ensure good demand from institutional investors.  
"I think there will be pretty keen competition for it," said J. B. Were group managing director Terrence Campbell.
"There's plenty of Asian interest but as far as we can tell, there's plenty of interest in the (United) States and Europe as well," he told reporters in Melbourne.
Tomlinson and other National Mutual executives will leave Australia next week for a two-week roadshow of Asia, Europe and the United States to sell the offer to institutions.
Under the float, retail investors will be offered a refund if the final institutional price is below A$1.50, but they will pay no more if the final price exceeds A$1.50.  
"Given the high policy-holder take-up (of shares), it then gives us more confidence ... that the price of A$1.50, we were pitching at the right level," said John Magowan, of joint lead manager McIntosh Corp Ltd.
Insurance analysts predicted on Wednesday the demand from policy-holders would help to ensure the final price determined by institutional bidding would fall in the upper end of the group's indicative price range.
"That will boost the price just because of the supply and demand situation," a Sydney-based analyst told Reuters.  
"I think it (the institutional price range) is a realistic price," insurance analyst Nick Selvaratnam, of brokerage BZW Australia, told Reuters.
The offer prices compare with a net tangible asset backing for the group of A$1.39 per share and an appriasal value, accounting for future profits, of A$1.60 per share.
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Transport and logistics group TNT Ltd said on Wednesday it was well placed for quite strong profit growth in the current 1996/97 year, but would continue to look at selling its currently unprofitable non-core assets.
"We haven't got any numbers, but it should be quite strong relative to the position we're starting from," TNT Managing Director David Mortimer said of prospective profit growth, in an interview with Reuters.  
Mortimer said the non-core activities that slowed down TNT's earnings in 1995/96 were its general freight business in Australia and its Brazilian operations.
"We've dealt with the LCL (Less Than Container Load) business -- that's been closed and we've sold Brazil," he said.
"What's the saying...when in doubt shoot it or fix it."
TNT would also look to sell other unprofitable non-core businesses, Mortimer said.
"We've got other non-core activities and to the extent that they don't perform then they will be vulnerable to sale," he said.  
One of those non core activities is TNT's 50 percent interest in airliner leasing firm, Ansett Worldwide. News Corp Ltd owns the other half.
Mortimer said he had consistently said that Ansett Worldwide's capital base needed to be restructured to give it cheaper access to capital so it could compete properly.
"In its present structure, it's difficult for it to be optimised for News and TNT ownership because it needs access to capital at an effective rate," he said.
News and TNT continued to look at ways of restructuring Ansett Worldwide's capital base before selling it, he said.  
Ansett's GD Express operation based in Europe had turned around in the last year and was now going well, Mortimer said.
He said the just completed sale plans for Ansett Airlines
Mortimer said in the longer term, TNT aimed to get double digit revenue and earnings growth.
"Overall we'd like to do good double digit (revenue and earnings) growth, but we can't guarantee any of that," he said.
TNT's share price closed up three cents at A$1.47.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
After years of war-induced poverty, gum arabic is offering drought-stricken Chad's rural poor a lifeline to the production plants of the world's food and beverage giants.
The name gum arabic may mean little to most people but the sticky acacia tree sap balls are a valued commodity in companies as diverse as Coca Cola Co, drug manufacturer Hoechst and bubble gum factories around the globe.
For impoverished sub-Saharan states producing the bulk of world demand, gum arabic simply means export currency.
"Gum arabic is one of nature's best emulsifiers but the industry has suffered from low prices in recent years," a senior U.N. Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) official said.
"But with synthetic food-substitutes losing favour prices could move up again as quality is improved," FAO's programme director Mahamat Ali Hassam told Reuters in the capital N'Djamena.
Soft drinks makers now consume 30 percent of world output but it is also used in sweets such as pastilles and chewing gum. The food industry uses it as a stabiliser and a preservative.
Chad, neighbour of the world's largest gum arabic producer, Sudan, is planning a quality blitz to win markets after years of falling yields and bloody turf disputes between foraging nomads and commercial farmers.
"About 70-80 percent of world output (about 35,000 tonnes) is African with Sudan producing 25,000 to 30,000 tonnes," said FAO Chad director Pierre Gence. "But Chad has the potential to match Sudan's output."
The FAO and the French aid agency Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) are both working on projects to propel Chad's output to 30,000 tonnes from around 3,000 tonnes today.
Some experts say Chad has the capacity to produce 160,000 tonnes a year but that world demand would have to increase dramatically to accomodate that.
Gum arabic has a history dating back to ancient times. Arab traders brought it north from Africa in caravans to Middle Ages Europe and the Middle East along with gold, ivory and slaves.
It is also highly prized as a soluble food fibre because, unlike other strong vegetable emulsifiers with thickening and gelling qualities, it can be used in foods and beverages without altering texture.
It is used in everything from indelible ink for Chad's Koranic schools to textile dyes, glues, pastilles, perfumes and pharmaceutical products.
Despite traces of arsenic it is also nutritious, with 90 percent sugar and 2.5 percent each of fat and protein in addition to copper, calcium, sodium and magnesium.
Hungry nomads pluck gum arabic as they pass with grazing goats and cattle.
But state land rights for Chad's 25,000 producers are poorly defined. "People get killed over this," said one French worker.
"Our studies aim to entirely review and reform the whole sector so everyone's interests are respected and output can grow," said a spokesman for the French CFD development agency.
Trees take five years to mature yielding about 150 grams in each of two main harvests between November and March.
"Some super-trees yield eight kg per harvest so we are trying to find out their genetic code and plant more," said the FAO's Mahamat Ali.
Gum arabic is dried from squash-ball sized yellow blobs of sap into quartz-like chunks and split into top grade Kitir followed by Tarlah grades before it enters a highly secretive marketing chain in 2.5 kg Corlo lots.
Marketing data is kept secret.
Commercial planting has not got underway but existing trees have suffered from 20 years of drought. Rains of 300-500 mm are needed whereas some areas are only forecast to get little over 100 mm in 1997. Chad has already appealed for food aid.
Chad's four-year "Gum Arabic Project" to 1999 seeks to improve knowledge of the sector and its practices -- from commercial tree bleeding, tooling, drying, sorting, stocking, transporting to dealing along the murky marketing chain.
The FAO's two-year $285,000 project up to 1997 on inventory assessment, mapping, training and standards completes the picture of sectoral reform.
Neighbouring countries are also planning more output, from Senegal, Burkina Faso, and across the arid Sahel desert fringe to strife-torn Central African Republic.
Nigeria is already second only to Sudan in terms of production. India is the main producer outside Africa.
Colombian police said on Sunday they discovered a second multimillion-dollar drug stash aboard a yacht owned by three Britons being held on cocaine smuggling charges stemming from a bust on the yacht in December.
The three men Michael Hayne, 50, of Egham, Surrey, his son Stephen Alan Hayne, 27, of Ashford, Kent, and David Maurice Shaw, 49, of Oldham, Lancashire, were arrested on Dec. 13 in the Caribbean coast port of Barranquilla and were being held on cocaine smuggling charges.
At the time, officials of the state security force DAS discovered more than 425 pounds (194 kg) of highly pure cocaine aboard their U.S.-registered boat Perla del Mar (Sea Pearl). In a more exhaustive search, conducted over the weekend, police turned up another 326 pounds (148 kg) of cocaine -- stowed away in the vessel's waste water tanks.
A DAS chief estimated the street value of the first haul at $50 million. Police declined on Sunday to speculate on the overall value of the illicit consignment.
"The drugs were coated with a mixture of burned oil and coffee, which masks the smell and makes it more difficult for sniffer dogs to detect," a Barranquilla police spokesman said.
The Britons were being held in custody in Barranquilla's El Modelo jail. They could not be contacted on Sunday.
In a phone conversation in December, Michael Hayne told Reuters the situation had been a "huge mix-up" and hoped everything would be "straightened out soon."
DAS officials said Hayne, whose passport was issued by the British Embassy in Spain, and his son had entered Colombia illegally from Venezuela. Shaw entered Colombia legally -- his passport had been issued by the British High Commission in Trinidad.
A spokeswoman for the regional prosecutor's office said the men could face between four and 12 years behind bars if convicted of the smuggling charges.
Colombian laws on drug trafficking are frequently seen as lax compared to standards in Britain and the United States.
The country's cocaine kings Gilberto and Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela, heads of the once-mighty Cali drug cartel were sentenced 10 days ago.
The brothers admitted running a vast international criminal empire for more than 20 years and arranging the shipment of almost 40 tonnes of cocaine into the United States -- thought to be just a fraction of the real amount they sent. They received jail terms that could in practice let them walk free in just five years.
Two very different Cambridge biotechnology companies set out their plans to join the stock market on Monday.
Cambridge Antibody Technology Group Plc (CAT), which uses human antibodies to discover new drugs, and the Bioscience Innovation Centre, which aims to "incubate" new biotech businesses, both hope to raise millions of pounds to fund their work.
Sources close to CAT said its listing later this year should raise between 30 and 35 ($48-57 million) through a placing of its shares with institutional investors, valuing the company at around 85 million pounds.
Kleinwort Benson Ltd has been appointed as sponsor to the flotation, with Cazenove &amp; Co as broker.
CAT, which has been operating since 1990, is working to find drugs to tackle inflammation, fibrosis, cancer and obesity.
It said two drugs were expected to enter human clinical trials this year. CAT plans to develop drugs on its own up to intermediate stage clinical trials, and then find partners to help fund the costly business of late-stage trials, registration and marketing.
The strategy would enable the company to keep a higher percentage of profits from drug sales than if it introduced a partner early on, but will also increase its costs.
The Bioscience Innovation Centre (BIC) said it hoped to raise up to 6 million pounds through a share placing and open offer, and to list its shares on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM).
The money will go towards the construction of a 20,000 square foot building in Cambridge which will act as a "business incubator", offering technical and commercial skills to budding biotechs.
"In the U.S, sector-specific business incubators have been shown to have a positive and dramatic effect on the success rate and growth of start-up businesses," BIC said.
It added that the planned centre would give suitable companies access to "professionals in the fields of intellectual property, commercial management, licensing, marketing, regulatory affairs and finance."
Teather &amp; Greenwood have been appointed as advisers and brokers for BIC's flotation.
Cambridge is growing rapidly as a biotechnology centre. Companies already established in the city include Chiroscience Group Plc, Peptide Therapeutics Plc, Cantab Pharmaceuticals Plc and Celsis International Plc. ($1=.6161 Pound)
Toronto stocks ended mixed in thin dealings on Monday, resisting New York's continued sell-off with the help of stronger key gold issues.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index rose 7.18 points to reach 6040.76 in turnover of 87 million shares worth C$1.29 billion ($961 million).
But declining issues beat out advancing ones 510 to 460. Another 296 ended flat.
"Stocks didn't do too badly today, thanks to strength in the gold sector," said ScotiaMcLeod's senior vice-president Fred Ketchen.
Trading was thin ahead of Tuesday's U.S. fourth quarter Employment Cost Index. Last week, U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan expressed concern over rising wages.
Toronto's 14 sub-indices were evenly split. The strong side was led by a 1.6 percent gain in precious metals, followed by consumer products and conglomerates.
Weak groups included transportation, forestry products and financial services.
Golds were among actively traded issues. Golden Rule Resources Ltd. added 0.55 to 13.10 while Placer Dome Inc. rose 0.80 to 28.30.
Telecommunications conglomerate BCE Inc., Canada's largest publicly traded firm, slipped 0.10 to 65.65 after posting fourth quarter results that were in line with market expectations, traders said.
Beer and entertainment conglomerate Molson Companies Ltd. rose 1.10 to 22.95. Molson announced plans to sell a 50-percent stake in retailer Reno-Deport Inc. for C$62.25 million ($46.34 million).
Telecommunications firm Northern Telecom Ltd. saw shares dip 1.30 to 92.30 despite posting a strong fourth quarter profit of $1.23 a share versus year ago $0.98.
Demands for commodity auction rule changes to stop overbidding for cocoa export contracts will dominate talks in Abidjan next week on progress with Ivorian agriculture reforms, donor and industry delegates say.
"We are now ready to revisit the issue and the possibility of amending rules," a World Bank official told Reuters.
Ivory Coast's Consultative Committee, set up in October to review progress on a World Bank Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) timetable, meets in Abidjan on February 5-7.
A clear agenda was expected to emerge after intitial meetings between the Ivorian government, industry and international trade officials.
Exporters want immediate changes to the auction, which is aimed at ensuring price competition and market transparency.
"Exporters have to pay too much, sell at a loss and get into (contract) positions they don't really want," one told Reuters.
The World Bank sponsored the auction as part of a $150 million ASAC loan dating back to 1994 on condition that rules and penalties were applied.
"The problem is that the Caistab (Caisse de Stabilisation marketing board) has not given us sales data since September," said one bank official.
Contract allocation was previously handled by the Caistab as a state commodity marketing monopoly.
Donors in September agreed to two modifications but said initial overbidding and concentration of export rights in a few hands had waned since the system was put in place in May 1996.
"We cannot wait until next year (Oct-Sept 1997/98) for changes," one exporter told Reuters. "Two thirds of each year is sold forward so new rules would not bite until 1999."
"Support for the system is disappearing, especially for physicals traders," another said. "There's a lot of forward buying for 1997/98 to ensure smooth debloquage."
Ivorian ministry officials along with International Cocoa Organization, World Bank, International Monetary Fund, European Union, industry and trading representatives will attend talks.
"The market has certainly fallen below the price of some people's contracts," said one exporter. Auction rules were partly the problem but recent low world demand and price could also mean some would hold on to stocks for a March premium.
Warehouses at Ivorian ports are full to normally operating capacity estimated to be at least 380,000 tonnes.
There is also discord over auction penalty rules.
"Penalties are not being applied so the system is really not working," one European-based buyer told Reuters.
Exporters say penalties are unclear. "The rules are too blurred and are being applied when they shouldn't," said one.
Export contracts are auctioned in two daily sessions but exporters are banned for five sessions if they fail to put up a bank guarantee of 25 CFA per kilo within three days of bid confirmation by the Caistab.
"We are still in disageement with the Caistab about the levels of interest rates," said one exporter. Before the reforms, the Caistab put up guarantees on behalf of exporters.
The World Bank in late 1996 agreed to a proposal for an 85-15 percent split between sales to local exporters and by the Caistab directly to international traders.
"If international traders' bids do not at least match the best local exporters' bid they should not be allowed to buy," said one exporter.
The World Bank has not agreed to parts of a GEPEX exporters' forum proposition to spread contracts more widely, between five highest bidders in each session.
"We have agreed the principal of differentiated prices and the 85-15 rule but not the five bidders proposal," said a World Bank official.
The World Bank wants bidders held to the price they bid, rather than winning contracts but at the second highest bid price -- a rule which it says encourages overbidding.
($1=551 CFA francs)
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Police arrested a U.S. pilot carrying a suitcase packed with at least 13.5 pounds (6.2 kg) of high grade heroin at Bogota's international airport on Sunday evening, a prosecutor said.
Bradley Dale Brandt, 40, originally of North Dakota but now living in southern California, was detained as he made his way to board one of the Colombian airline's ACES flights to Panama City, said the prosecutor, who cannot be named for security reasons.
Brandt told Reuters he had been framed and the suitcase was not his. He was to have travelled on the flight to Panama as a passenger but was wearing a commercial aviator's uniform when arrested. He declined to say exactly where in southern California he lived but his passport was issued in Los Angeles.
"I was carrying the suitcase but it was not mine. I was totally surprised when the police opened it up. The clothes inside were mine but nothing else was. I'll kill the person who switched my bag if I ever find them," Brandt said.
"I just wouldn't do a thing like that. This has put my career and my family in jeopardy. I've worked too hard just to blow it on something stupid like this," he added.
Brandt declined to say which airline he worked for. No airline insignia were visible on his uniform or his pilot's overcoat.
A police spokeswoman said the heroin was discovered when the bag Brandt was carrying was put through an x-ray machine -- one of the multiple routine checks that international passengers have to undergo when leaving Bogota.
"Brandt was arrested with a suitcase stuffed with clothes and high quality heroin," the spokeswoman said.
The prosecutor said Brandt would be interviewed further in the presence of a lawyer and an interpreter on Monday.
Earlier in the day airport police seized a Mexican passenger as he tried to board a flight to Mexico City with false-bottomed suitcases packed with 93 pounds (42 kg) of cocaine.
The U.S Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) estimates Colombian drug cartels supply at least 80 percent of the world's cocaine. And in a report late last year, it said Colombia had edged out the Golden Triangle of southeast Asia as the No. 1 supplier of high grade heroin to the United States.
China's top graft-buster on Monday lauded the country's success in battling corruption in 1996 but urged greater efforts this year to fight abuses of power by government officials.
Vigilant residents and rules requiring officials to report their incomes had helped uncover hundreds of thousands of graft cases in 1996, Xinhua news agency quoted Wei Jianxing, chairman of the Communist Party's Central Disciplinary Inspection Committee, as saying.
Authorities had also cracked several cases involving major officials such as Tie Ying, a member of the standing committee of the Beijing Municipal People's Congress, Wei told a meeting of the committee in Beijing that opened on Monday.
Several officials were dismissed during the investigation of those cases, Wei said but gave no further details.
More work was needed to fight corruption in 1997, Wei said.
"While affirming the achievements of 1996 we must address the serious situation and problems facing the anti-corruption drive," Wei said.
President and Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin launched a crackdown on corruption in 1995, saying that graft was a virus that threatened to topple the party.
Wei said China should place priority on fighting random and illegal fees on public roads, students in primary and middle schools and on farmers.
"The leaders and cadres of some localities and departments still do not have sufficient understanding of the seriousness and importance of the anti-corruption struggle," he said.
The party should step up internal scrutiny and encourage supervision of officials by the public, he said.
Residents made more than 1.45 million telephone calls to anti-graft hotlines in January-November last year, 16.8 percent more than the same period in 1995, he said.
The calls had resulted in more than 135,000 cases, including 5,643 involving officials at the county level or above, he said. The total number of cases in the period had risen 10.9 percent from the same time in 1995.
Disciplinary authorities had punished more than 116,000 people, up 14.3 percent from the year before. Of those, 3,695 were from the county level or above while 321 were provincial level officials, he said.
Investigators had found more than 21,000 cars used by party or government officials that exceeded standards set for officials, he said.
More than 72,000 officials had admitted using their positions to obtain better housing, with 74 percent handing over a total of 94 million yuan ($11.3 million) to pay for the housing, he said.
Some 85,000 officials, 95 percent of whom ranked above the county level, had handed over cash and gifts worth more than 51 million yuan ($6.1 million), he said.
Government agencies and state-owned enterprises had reduced entertainment expenses by 1.6 billion yuan ($193 million) after being forced to make full accountings of such items, he said.
"The use of public funds to engage in the unhealthy trend of 'eat, drink and be merry' has been contained somewhat," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
France's national audit office criticised on Monday a lack of clarity and insufficient competition in the water supply market, dominated by two giant companies Cie Generale des Eaux and Lyonnaise des Eaux.
"There is a high degree of concentration. That is not to say competition is absent, but it is organised competition," said Francois Logerot, author of the Cour des Comptes (court of auditors') report.
"It may be that concentration in this sector is accentuated by agreements between these companies...sometimes by creating joint subsidiaries at the request of local councils."
Logerot cited as an example the Saint-Etienne city council, where the water company Societe Stephanoise des Eaux is jointly owned by Lyonnaise des Eaux Dumez and Generale des Eaux (CGE).
The report, presented at a news conference, said the private sector held 75 percent of the supply of drinking water in France in 1991, up from 60 percent in 1980 and 31 percent in 1954.
The price of water rose by a national average 47.7 percent from 1990 to 1994, it said.
Significant price rises occurred where contracts were awarded to the private sector, Logerot said.
"Sometimes there was a catch-up effect but there were also excesses and abnormal situations."
But CGE noted in a statement that the report said the main reason for rising water prices was higher quality and increasing investment needs.
It said the official audit pointed to a near doubling of the cost of water treatment between 1990 and 1995, while the price to the consumer rose by 30 percent.
Logerot said local authorities often awarded contracts to the water companies in exchange for payments which the companies then recovered in the price charged to customers.
The study followed a 1995 law which banned "right of entry" payments that water companies paid to win an operating licence.
The report cited the Alpine city of Grenoble, where a contract with Lyonnaise des Eaux resulted in the conviction for bribery of the mayor, former Gaullist minister Alain Carignon.
Grenoble used the proceeds of the water contract to finance its general expenditure, while accounting principles call for water expenses to be kept separate from the general budget.
Lyonnaise said in a statement that each water company had given details of its contracts to the audit office and, of the 12,000 in France, only about 20 had drawn explicit comment. And these had been agreed under conditions prevailing before the 1995 law.
The CGE statement said much of the criticism in the report related to the past, when payment for contracts was legal. It added that the company was pleased such payments had been banned and the duration of those contracts was limited.
CGE said the water market was highly competitive and 1996 had shown that, when contracts expired, there was competition to win new licences. The sector was also subject to strict controls by a number of public bodies, including competition and quality experts.
France's national audit office on Monday criticised a lack of clarity and insufficient competition in the water supply market, dominated by two giant companies Cie Generale des Eaux and Lyonnaise des Eaux.
"There is a high degree of concentration. That is not to say competition is absent, but it is organised competition," said Francois Logerot, author of the Cour des Comptes (court of auditors) report.
"It may be that concentration in this sector is accentuated by agreements between these companies...sometimes by creating joint subsidiaries at the request of local councils."
Logerot cited as an example the Saint-Etienne city council, where the water company Societe Stephanoise des Eaux is jointly owned by Lyonnaise des Eaux Dumez and Generale des Eaux (CGE).
The report, presented at a news conference, said the private sector held 75 percent of the supply of drinking water in France in 1991, up from 60 percent in 1980 and 31 percent in 1954.
The price of water rose by a national average 47.7 percent from 1990 to 1994, it said.
Significant price rises occurred where contracts were awarded to the private sector, Logerot said.
"Sometimes there was a catch-up effect but there were also excesses and abnormal situations."
Lyonnaise officials were not available for comment. But CGE noted in a statement that the report said the main reason for rising water prices was higher quality and increasing investment needs.
It said the official audit pointed to a near doubling of the cost of water treatment between 1990 and 1995, while the price to the consumer rose by 30 percent.
Logerot said local authorities often awarded contracts to the water companies in exchange for payments which the companies then recovered in the price charged to customers.
The study followed a 1995 law which banned "right of entry" payments that water companies paid to win an operating licence.
The report cited the Alpine city of Grenoble, where a contract with Lyonnaise des Eaux resulted in the conviction for bribery of the mayor, former Gaullist minister Alain Carignon.
Grenoble used the proceeds of the water contract to finance its general expenditure, while accounting principles call for water expenses to be kept separate from the general budget.
The CGE statement said much of the criticism in the report related to the past, when payment for contracts was legal. It added that the company was pleased such payments were banned and the duration of those contracts was limited.
CGE said the water market was highly competitive and 1996 had shown that when contracts expired, there was competition to win new licences. The sector was also subject to strict controls by a number of public bodies, including competition and quality experts.
The audit office called for tighter water management and said higher water quality standards contained in a 1992 law would require annual investment of around 14 billion francs.
Long before Hong Kong's handover to China, celebrity painter Liu Yu Yi, whose portrait subjects include Beijing's leaders, is already benefiting from the return of Britain's last Asian outpost to the Chinese fold.
Spanning an entire wall in his home in Hong Kong's posh Mid-levels district is an almost finished oil painting depicting over 200 famous personalities at a feast celebrating the handover at midnight on June 30.
Central on the canvas is China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, the man hailed as the architect of the "one country, two systems" formula under which Hong Kong would be treated after the handover.
Raising a toast, Deng is flanked by President Jiang Zemin, Premier Li Peng and Tung Chee-hwa, the man who will run Hong Kong after Britain hands back its colony of more than 150 years.
"I am using art to capture this momentous event that is watched by all nations of the world," Liu, reclining on a sofa, told Reuters during an interview.
THE CHINA BREAKTHROUGH
Trained at the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing, Liu shot to fame in 1993 when he sold "Liang Xiao" (Festive Evening) -- a flashback to a historic gathering of China's leaders in 1950 -- for HK$8.36 million (US$1.08 million).
It was the highest price paid for a contemporary Chinese work of art, and he has been hitting jackpots ever since.
He sold "Song of the Goddess Nu Wa" for HK$8.88 million in 1994 and "Gathering of Immortals" for HK$10.8 million in 1995.
THE HONGKONG CONNECTION
Whether because of his talent, access to high places or being in the right place at the right time, Liu has penetrated the ranks of the rich and influential since coming to Hong Kong in 1991.
Liu, whose entire family lived on his monthly wage of 40 yuan (US$4.80) in the 1970s, has done portraits of Hong Kong business titans such as Li Ka-shing, Stanley Ho, Simon Li, Gordon Wu and Run Run Shaw.
Mindful of the handover five months away, Hong Kong's rich and pragmatic have been embracing their mainland peers, be they politicians, businessmen or artists, and are stocking up their homes with Chinese art and antiques.
But the well-connected Liu, who drew Tung into his work on the handover more than five months before the tycoon was even selected as Hong Kong's first colonial leader, betrayed little when asked what sparked the insight.
"I just thought he was the likeliest candidate," he chuckled before adding that the dozen empty headslots would be drawn in after Tung announces his team-designate.
SUCCESS DIDN'T COME EASY
Liu's real break came in 1988 when "Festive Evening" was exibited in the Memorial Hall of the late Chinese leader Mao Zedong.
It prompted a request from Beijing for Liu to create another work. The resulting "Ren Min Wan Sui" or "Long Live The People" has adorned Beijing's Tiananmen Rostrum since 1990.
But all this did not come easy for the artist who was sent off to toil in a rural commune during the ultra-leftist years of the Mao-inspired Cultural Revolution (1966-1976).
"I suffered tremendous shock, persecution. They said I was a 'black' artist, that I did not conform politically," Liu said.
"Seven years. Seven years I lost time to practise my art. I only came back in 1977, then I painted again," he said.
CULTURAL REVOLUTION HARDSHIPS PROVIDED INSPIRATION
Ironically, it was those years of persecution and aimless toil that inspired "Liang Xiao", his first work after the end of the revolution, and a piece which would take him till 1984.
"After the Cultural Revolution, I wanted to say many things which had been locked in my heart. I saw all the chaos and fighting. I was very depressed and I suffered a lot," Liu said.
"I knew this can never be repeated. I wished that it would be 'liang xiao' every night. That every night would be wonderful and whole for the country. That was what I wanted to say."
Things have looked up since for Liu, whose works echo the leanings of socialist realism, a creed that was hammered into intellectuals and artists during the late 1950s.
Snubbing the formulaic mountains, valleys, bamboo trees and the miniature people of lofty Chinese landscape art, Liu said: "These works have lasted for too long in China. From the Song Dynasty onwards, too many, too many.
"Under my hand, my pursuit is different...that of entry into the world, not retreat. To immerse into this world," he said.
FELLOW ARTISTS AND CRITICS LESS KIND
While Liu's talent as a portrait painter is admired, the material success that his brushes have brought more than just raised eyebrows from those in his trade.
Gallery owner Karl McLean, who helped sell "Song of the Goddess Nu Wa", said: "He's a very good portrait painter, and has very good connections in Beijing...but the artists hate him, they think he is just political and very commercial.
"I think he's a very clever guy, he's a very smart guy. He knows how to make money and he knows how to handle the rich. He knows how to get them to pay up big time," McLean told Reuters. (US$1 = HK$7.73)
Wallace Computer Services Inc. said Thursday its directors will unanimously recommend that shareholders reject a bid by Wyser-Pratte &amp; Co. Inc. to gain control of the computer services company's board.
Wyser-Pratte, which holds 2.3 percent of Wallace's outstanding shares, has proposed three candidates as directors for the Lisle, Ill.-based company, as well as a special committee to explore ways to maximize shareholder value.
It seeks to remove Wallace's poison pill takeover defence, which requires an 80 percent vote to approve certain mergers.
Wyser-Pratte filed the proposals with the Securities and Exchange Commission after Moore Corp. Ltd., a huge Canadian business forms manufacturer, abandoned a 13-month campaign to acquire Wallace in a $1.3 billion deal in early August.
Wallace's board said in a letter to Wyser-Pratte that it will recommend that its shareholders vote against the proposals at their annual meeting on Nov. 6, as they are not in the best interests of them or the company.
Wallace said it was aware that Wyser-Pratte tried to contact the three Wallace directors who were nominated by former suitor Moore at last year's annual meeting.
"You should be under no illusion that you or your purported director nominees have three allies on the Wallace board. We want to emphasise that we are unanimous in opposing your actions," the letter said.
Guy Wyser-Pratte, president of Wyser-Pratte, responded that he would continue to push his proposals.
He said although Wallace had increased its dividend substantially and reported higher-than-expected earnings Wednesday, the stock was only up slightly. Wallace rose 12.5 cents to close at $27.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"They're not delivering value to shareholders," he said.
Wallace said its profits jumped to $19.2 million, or 42 cents a share, in the fourth quarter ended July 31, from $15.8 million, or 35 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Sales rose 8.2 percent to $214.5 million from $198.2 million.
Factoring in the company's stock split, the stock is trading at just over $54, compared with Moore's offer last year of $60, Wyser-Pratte said.
"It's been a year and nothing has happened with the stock," he said.
However, analysts said that strong business fundamentals and a presumed change in Wallace's shareholder profile should protect it from Wyser-Pratte's proposals.
Many arbitrageurs likely sold their Wallace stock after Moore abandoned its 13-month takeover campaign, resulting in more shareholders interested in long-term gains, analysts said.
Home decorating giants ICI Paints and Black &amp; Decker hope their new product to be launched on Wednesday won't make a splash.
The two companies have invested two years and millions of pounds in developing the Black &amp; Decker Paintmate, a battery-operated roller system they claim will take the pain out of painting.
The Paintmate, which will be sold in DIY (do-it-yourself) stores across Britain from April for 39.99 pounds ($65), uses an air-filled bellow system to squeeze the contents of a two-litre refill bag of Dulux paint down a tube and onto a roller, with the flow controlled by a trigger.
The small, cylindrical Paintmate can be strapped on to the back to eliminate tiresome bending over. Black &amp; Decker spokesman Richard Sanderson told Reuters, "It is a long time since the DIY market saw a product of such significance."
Sanderson said the companies hoped to sell 500,000 of the British-designed, Chinese-made Paintmates in the first full year in Britain, together with a million bags of paint.
If all goes well in Britain, which Sanderson said was "quite a sophisticated DIY market", Paintmate will be rolled out across western Europe next year, after which attention would switch to the huge U.S. home improvement market.
ICI, which sells enough paint in the UK to decorate five million homes a year, hopes the product will revolutionise the way people decorate.
"It's quick, it's easy and I think people will find it fun," said ICI Decorative Paints international marketing director Chris Harris.
Harris said the whole system could be flushed out with water. "We think people would redecorate more regularly if the painting process was quicker and easier," he added.
The Paintmate's promoters hope to benefit from a surge in DIY sales, fuelled by an upswing in Britain's temperamental housing market.
The product's launch will be backed by a 10 million pound promotional campaign in Britain and Europe, with television adverstising starting in April. ($1=.6199 Pound)
Britain's Imperial Tobacco Group Plc took advantage of its new-found independence on Tuesday to buy the world's biggest maker of handrolling tobacco papers.
Imperial, which was demerged from conglomerate Hanson Plc last October, said it was paying 168 million pounds ($272.7 million) for Netherlands-based Rizla International BV, as well as acquiring 17 million pounds of Rizla's debt.
Chief executive Gareth Davis told Reuters that Rizla, which employs more than 700 people in France, Belgium and Wales, would enhance the group's international expansion.
"Imperial Tobacco is a relatively late entrant to international markets but is making some very fast strides in growth," Davis said.
Rizla has a large market share in seven or eight European countries, he said.
Shares in Imperial, which will finance the deal out of bank borrowings, rose 9.5 pence to 394 as traders greeted the news.
Founded in 1796, Rizla is the world's largest producer and seller of the thin papers used for handrolling cigarettes. It has around 66 percent of world market share in branded products.
Davis said the company was active in more than 60 countries, adding: "Obviously we are looking to extract the potential we see at Rizla for increased profitability and productivity."
Davis said Imperial had been able to take advantage of its new-found independence from Hanson.
"It is a company we have been interested in for many years," he said, adding that the acquisition was "very much in line with our strategy at demerger of focusing on tobacco and tobacco-related products."
No job losses are anticipated as a result of the acquisition. "We do see scope for productivity improvements but the plants are working at capacity," Davis said.
Imperial said Rizla, which is based in Breda, would continue to be run as a separate division, with the existing management remaining in place.
In 1996, Rizla posted a trading profit of 23 million pounds on sales of 74 million pounds, and had net tangible assets of around 17 million pounds.
($1=.6161 Pound)
She once jokingly thought of calling her autobiography "Fascist Bitch," and now Canadian journalists are wondering what epithet to use as she plays an expanding role in the country's largest newspaper empire.
British-born Barbara Amiel, the wife of Hollinger Inc. chairman Conrad Black, is an accomplished journalist who counts many fans in Britain, where she writes a rightwing shoot-from-the-hip column for the Daily Telegraph, the centerpiece of the Hollinger empire.
Although she honed her craft in Canada, she makes many Canadians bristle by standing out from the mass of generally liberal journalists. She says she has never managed to reap the accolades she desires from Canadians, the ones she routinely receives from the British.
A sought-after London party guest, Amiel now is in the Canadian spotlight through her position as vice president of editorial in her husband's newspaper empire. Hollinger added a majority shareholding in Southam Inc., the country's largest daily newspaper chain, to its media stable, substantially boosting its control to more than 40 percent of the industry.
The move left some Canadians worried about Hollinger's influence on their media and many Southam journalists fearful for their jobs as Black's well-known road to profits often involves cutting newspaper staff.
HUSBAND CAN SPEAK FOR HIMSELF
At a recent conference of journalists in Ottawa, Amiel, a former Toronto Sun editor, was repeatedly asked about Black's intentions. She replied that he could speak for himself. But she added, "I think the Southam papers ... have not done their best but have terrific potential."
Amiel, who still writes for Maclean's magazine, hesitated when asked if she was treated differently in Canada than abroad. "I think Canada's been very good to me. I became editor of a newspaper, (former editor) Peter Newman gave me a column in Maclean's magazine, how many people have got that? You can't complain."
But then she added, "I've never, although one always wants it, had the recognition of my peers that I've had in England, but then maybe I didn't deserve it in Canada."
Television personality Alan Edmonds, an admirer of Amiel who disagrees with her views, said Canadians have refrained from praising Amiel's talents because of her rightwing bias. "In the years that she was in Canada ... the prevailing mindset in the media was in the opposite direction."
Edmonds said other journalists were jealous of the openings that came her way. "She's used her undoubted feminine attraction to ... create opportunities to use her undoubted superior intellect."
In person and in print, Amiel has a knack for sparking debates. For instance, she once wrote that Quebec's moves toward independence, culminating in a narrow 1995 defeat for the separatists, could be blamed on Canada's liberal elite, which promoted multi-culturalism, thereby strengthening French-Canadian nationalism.
CASTIGATING LEFTWINGERS
Her columns have castigated Ontario's former leftwing government, led by the New Democratic Party, for allegedly being swayed by special interest groups like the disabled. She also wrote that Ontario, which gave homosexual couples the same rights as heterosexual ones, had weakened the family.
Canada's most widely read satirical magazine, Frank, noted "a favorite theme in her columns is the insidiousness of self-pity, that the poor should get on with their lives and quit carping about it." And columnist Allan Fotheringham once observed, "Barbara Amiel, otherwise known as Mrs. Conrad Black, can take out any opponent in the world and eat them for breakfast. As she does regularly in print."
Amiel has even joked about her reputation, saying she thought about calling her surprisingly frank 1980 autobiography "Fascist Bitch," a name suggested by irate readers. Instead the book was titled "Confessions."
Now in her mid-50s, the much-married Amiel began her path at the tender age of eight at a "grotty little newspaper" in her hometown of Hendon, England. Her parents divorced, her mother remarried and her new Canadian stepfather dragged his new family back home. Amiel, used to fine surroundings, ended up in Hamilton, a gritty steel town in southern Ontario about 40 miles (70 km) from Toronto.
Before her 1991 marriage to Black, she was married to student Gary Smith, philosopher George Jonas and cable magnate David Graham, with whom she returned to England in 1985.
In 1993 well-known Canadian author Margaret Atwood published "The Robber Bride" about a scapel-assisted femme fatale named Zenia. The Canadian rumor mill identified Amiel as the model for Zenia, but she denied it.
Zeneca Group Plc set the scene for record profits on Tuesday, telling investors that its 1996 performance was expected to be in line with market expectations.
Analysts are forecasting a leap in pre-tax profit for the year to around 1.0 billion pounds ($1.62 billion) from 619 million pounds in 1995 when Zeneca unveils results on March 11.
With a strong set of results already factored into the share price, Zeneca stock settled back four pence to 1689-1/2 pence in early trading.
Bumper pharmaceutical sales will help to drive profits forward, with 1996 sales volumes likely to be ahead by around 14 percent year-on-year.
Sales of the group's biggest-selling product, cardiovascular drug Zestril, are tipped to rise at a similar rate to 1995's 12 percent growth, despite increased competition from rival Merck &amp; Co MRK.L 's Prinivil and Cozaar.
Established prostate cancer treatment Zoladex also "continued to grow strongly," Zeneca said, while a decline in sales of its ageing breast cancer product Nolvadex slowed.
In a quarterly trading statement, Zeneca highlighted the performance of new drugs, with sales of prostate treatment Casodex and Nolvadex back-up Arimidex beating expectations. The recent launch of a novel tablet asthma drug Accolate in the U.S. has "gone well," the group said.
Sales of agro-chemicals last year "were close" to the 14 percent rise reported at the nine-month stage, with record sales of herbicides and of the insecticide Karate.
Operating profits at the slimmed-down specialities business were likely to be above 1995 levels after "a particularly strong second-half performance," Zeneca said.
Full-year results will be affected by a 35 million reorganisation charge on speciality disposals, signalled at the half-year stage, while reorganisation of the seeds joint venture should cost Zeneca around 20 million pounds.
($1=.6161 Pound)
Drug group Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc said on Wednesday it was still keen to forge a cancer drug partnership in the U.S. as part of its goal of becoming a major oncology player over the next five years.
Setting out the U.S.-based group's growth strategy, RPR President Tim Rothwell said the company "aims to be in the top five, and ideally the top three" in cancer sales.
RPR ranked 15th in oncology sales in 1995. Rothwell said the improvement would be driven by breast and lung cancer drug Taxotere, which he predicted would achieve peak sales of at least $500 million over the next five years.
Sales this year are forecast to double in 1997 from around $90 million last year. Brain cancer treatment Gliadel, which Rothwell said should be approved in the U.S. in 1998, will also fuel the improvement.
"We continue to be interested in a partnership or alliance in the U.S. Others have two or three cancer products in a market dominated by Bristol-Myers Squibb, so it would make sense to ally ourselves," he said.
Rothwell cited RPR's link with Novo Nordisk on hormone replacement therapy as a model for other therapeutic alliances.
He again brushed aside recent speculation that RPR, which is 68 percent-owned by France's Rhone-Poulenc SA, could be a suitor for Sanofi, saying that the French company would not help achieve his aim of building up RPR's strength in the U.S. and Japan.
"The U.S. is still the largest and most profitable market in the world," Rothwell said, noting that only 24 percent of RPR's sales are in the United States compared to more than 40 percent for many of its rivals.
He said he wanted to raise U.S. sales to around 35 percent of the group's total, adding: "That will only come about through internal growth and perhaps from opportunistic product deals." In Japan RPR's strategy would be to continue with alliances and to build on the "eight or nine products in Phase II and Phase III trials."
"If the right kind of acquisition came along we would consider it, but the very good Japanese companies are the ones that can't be bought," he added.
In addition to cancer, RPR's growth strategy will centre on enhancing its position in key therapeutic areas, including thrombosis, asthma/allergy and anti-infectives.
It will also seek to swap non-core products with other companies and build up its base of early-stage products through links with universities and biotech companies.
In thrombosis, where RPR is number three in the world, the company expects sales of its best-selling drug Lovenox to double by the end of the century to more than $800 million.
In asthma and allergy, where RPR's position was enhanced by the acquisition of Britain's Fisons FISN.L, Rothwell said RPR was likely to remain in fourth place in five years' time, but predicted it would have overtaken Germany's Boehringer and would be challenging Sweden's Astra for third place.
Rothwell also hopes RPR will move up from 15th to be in the top five for anti-infective sales by the year 2005. He said new oral antibiotic Zagam and "other compounds under consideration" should boost its standing.
RPR is currently the 11th largest drug company in the world in terms of total sales. On Monday the company announced a 25 percent jump in 1996 net profits to $428.7 million.
British Biotech Plc said on Wednesday that a rethink on the way drug giants form alliances with fledgling biotechs was "desperately required".
British Biotech chief executive Keith McCullagh told the IIR's Pharma Summit conference that many product partnerships failed because small drug discoverers were forced to relinquish control of their projects too early.
He said a project that might be very important to a biotech was "one of many at an early stage of development" for a large company "and is usually not regarded with any great sense of uniqueness or urgency."
McCullagh said biotech projects often got clogged up in bureaucracy, rarely achieved the same priority as in-house discoveries and often fell victim to changes in management.
"The consequences of this are that the majority of biotech-pharma alliances fail, not as a consequence of product failure but as a result of a change of will on the part of the partner," he said.
British Biotech's deals over several years had been affected by changes in research and development management, complete R&amp;D reorganisation and changes in overall control of the partner through merger and acquisition, said McCullagh.
"Success is more likely to be achieved, as judged by product progress to market, if the originating company continues to play an important role in ongoing development," he said.
The chief executive said this could be achieved by the biotech company continuing to control development of a drug in-house with funding from its partner, or by establishing a joint venture "to progress the project with equal input into its management."
A third way could be for large companies to invite biotech staff to sit on project teams and management committees.
"By allowing the originator greater control over the outcome of the development, not only is the chance for success for the project enhanced but (the large company) is also more likely to achieve a return on its investment," he added.
British Biotech is unusual among its peers in choosing to develop and market its cancer portfolio, including its lead cancer drug Marimastat, on its own, although it has formed alliances in other key areas.
-- London newsroom 44 171 542 7717
British Telecommunications Plc (BT) might give some ground to U.S. rival AT &amp; T Corp in a quest to win regulatory approval for its $20 billion merger with U.S. carrier MCI Communications Corp, a source familiar with negotiations said on Wednesday.
The proposed merger, the biggest transatlantic deal in history, is being examined by British, American and European regulators. Regulatory clearance from America hinges on whether the British telecom market is deemed to be as open as America's.
AT&amp;T, the world's second biggest telecoms group after Japan's Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp, has charged that it does not have the same competitive advantages in Britain as BT will have in the U.S. after its MCI take-over.
The source said BT might look at some of the prices it charges AT&amp;T, which has been active in Britain for some years. The American giant wants BT to lower its transit' costs -- charged for transporting calls from the coast to AT&amp;T's network in cities.
The company also wants what is dubbed "equal access" to the British market. This would mean that customers would not have to call special numbers or press other buttons on their telephones before being connected with their chosen telecoms operator.
AT&amp;T complains that customers often forget to dial an access code to get onto its service before making calls, which means that BT gets paid for the call.
While the source said BT was unlikely to give ground on equal access, because it was not cost-effective, he said BT might consider its transit charges. "It is something that BT may look at," the source said, adding: "I think interconnect costs are always looked at in the UK."
MCI is America's second biggest international carrier and BT, keen to gain a greater access to the world's biggest telecoms market, wants to buy the 80 percent of MCI it does not already own.
EU sources say that the European Commission is expected to launch a full investigation into the alliance later this week.
The proposed merger, announced last November, was submitted to the Commission for clearance last December, and it has until Thursday to decide whether to clear it following a preliminary investigation -- or launch a deeper probe.
An in-depth probe into whether the deal could violate European fair competition rules could last up to four months.
But BT's EU affairs official Mike Corkerry told Reuters in Brussels: "We're not picking up any negative vibes about the merger...but there may be some nervousness because it is just so big."
BT, which along with MCI is holding briefing on Thursday to discuss British and American regulation, expects the deal to be cleared around autumn.
The London High Court on Thursday adjourned a hearing to decide whether British authorities will hand over to Italy documents related to the business affairs of Italian media tycoon Silvio Berlusconi.
The judge decided the hearing could not be finished in the two days allotted and lawyers would have to return in the first week of October before two new judges.
Britain's Serious Fraud office (SFO) seized the documents -- 15 bags full -- earlier this year from London lawyer David Mills who represents the business interests of former Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi, who, among other things, owns three TV channels and the football club AC Milan.
An SFO statement after the adjournment said: "We regret that the court has not been able to hear this matter, particularly as it is now nearly five months since the documents were seized."
The hearing stemmed from an appeal by Berlusconi and his company Fininvest and others against a decision that the papers be handed over to Italian magistrates.
An earlier court hearing was told the papers were linked to fraud and false accounting allegations amounting to 41 million pounds ($64.33 million) at overseas companies which were moved from Switzerland to England.
Italian investigators suspect Berlusconi's Fininvest may have used offshore companies to channel payments to politicians.
Berlusconi is on trial in Milan for alleged complicity in bribing tax officials for lenient audits of Fininvest companies.
The tycoon, who leads the centre-right Freedom Alliance, has also been indicted in another case in which he is charged with illegal party funding.
In court on Thursday, a lawyer for the appellants told the judge the SFO had allowed Italian police too much time to see the documents before a decision was made on whether to send them officially to Italy.
She also alleged that the Italian government's request for documents was too wide and amounted to a "fishing expedition", which is not allowed under British law.
China warned Taiwan on Wednesday not to seek independence from the communist mainland, hinting the island would meet disaster if Taipei insisted on splitting from the motherland.
Taipei had failed to answer a 1995 call by Chinese President Jiang Zemin for reconciliation and had instead actively sought to split Taiwan from mainland China, the official Xinhua news agency said.
"We urge the Taiwan authorities to rein themselves in at the precipice so that they can see clearly that the status of Taiwan being part of China cannot be changed and that the trend of Taiwan's reunion with the motherland cannot be resisted," the agency said in a commentary.
Beijing, which views Taiwan as a rebel province, refuses to rule out the use of force to recover the island if Taipei declares independence.
However, the tough commentary by China's state news agency held out the possibility of a resumption of quasi-official talks if Taiwan's authorities showed they sincerely wanted the eventual unification they say is their goal.
The commentary was issued to mark the second anniversary of a conciliatory speech by Jiang, who urged an end to hostilities between the bitter political rivals and the opening of direct trade links.
Taiwan officials had shrugged off Jiang's olive branch and were actively working to divide China and further block economic and trade links, Xinhua said.
"The Taiwan authorities advocate 'splitting the country and ruling under separate regimes' and 'two equal political entities', which are in fact aimed at tearing apart China's sovereignty and territory," the agency said.
It said people gifted with insight and who had at heart the fundamental interests of Taiwan's people should unite and remove obstacles preventing talks.
"The Taiwan authorities, under pressure both from within and without, have to respond to the important speech of President Jiang Zemin and at least gesture to make strategic readjustments regarding some questions in the cross-straits relations," Xinhua said. It did not specify what adjustments were needed.
Taiwan has barred direct trade and transport links with the mainland since the two were separated at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949. Taipei has clung to its ban as a last bargaining chip in talks on reunification with Beijing.
China's resumption of sovereignty over Hong Kong this year is expected to give Beijing more leverage in any talks.
"With the return of Hong Kong and that of Macau in 1999, the solution of the Taiwan question and the motherland's reunification will become more prominent issues for all Chinese people," Xinhua said.
Analysts have said Jiang is eager to bring Taiwan into the mainland's communist fold to etch his name in history alongside the late Chairman Mao Zedong and current paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, who negotiated the return of Hong Kong from Britain.
China would continue to promote economic exchanges between the two sides while keeping a vigilant watch over any movement toward independence for Taiwan, the Xinhua commentary said.
"The fight against separatism and Taiwan independence has illustrated the Chinese people's strong determination and ability...to strike hard against separatist activities and Taiwan-independence forces in Taiwan," the agency said.
China defended on Wednesday a proposal to roll back civil liberties in Hong Kong after the British colony reverts to Chinese rule this year, saying all rights and freedoms had limits.
Recent British reforms to Hong Kong's civil liberties laws had violated the Basic Law, the future mini-constitution of Hong Kong promulgated by Beijing, said Zhou Bingxin, an official with the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office under the State Council, China's cabinet.
"Hong Kong's original laws are in line with international human rights conventions and there is no need to unilaterally draft more laws," Zhou told a news conference.
Zhou's comments came amid criticism from Britain and the United States over a plan by the China-appointed body in charge of the handover to roll back laws protecting some civil rights in the colony.
A panel of the Preparatory Committee earlier this month listed 25 laws and articles, some the product of recent reforms and others the trappings of the colonial era, for repeal or amendment when Beijing resumes control of the territory.
The 1990 Basic Law and a 1984 Sino-British handover treaty promises Hong Kong's 6.3 million people a high degree of autonomy and permits them to retain their freewheeling capitalist system.
Zhou said the right to hold mass public gatherings and demonstrations in Hong Kong would be guaranteed by law after the handover on midnight on June 30 but said all countries had legal restrictions on such activities.
"No rights or freedoms are absolute, all of them have limits," Zhou said.
"For example, everyone has the freedom of speech, but must respect the rights and life of others and guarantee the safety of the state and public order," Zhou said.
"Limiting some rights and freedoms of the minority is to guarantee more rights and freedoms for the majority," Zhou said.
Britain last week voiced concern to China over the proposed changes as legally unsound and has protested against plans to scrap Hong Kong's elected legislature and replace it with a provisional body when it takes over.
U.S. President Bill Clinton said on Tuesday that Hong Kong's value to China might fall if liberties in the colony were lost after it returned to Beijing's rule.
Zhou dismissed international concerns over Hong Kong's post-handover liberties, saying he was optimistic about the colony's future.
"The Basic Law...explicitly states that Hong Kong residents enjoy the freedoms of speech, the press, publication and the freedoms of forming organisations, assembly and demonstration," Zhou said.
The 60-member provisional legislature held its first formal meeting last week in Shenzhen, across the border from Hong Kong, to avoid legal challenges to its legitimacy in the territory, where opponents have branded it as illegal.
Britain has challenged China to allow the world court in The Hague to rule on whether the existence of the provisional legislature violates the treaty governing the handover.
Beijing on Tuesday dismissed as irresponsible a proposal by U.S. Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jesse Helms to bar members of Hong Kong's provisional legislature from visiting the United States.
Mercury Finance Co. said Wednesday it found problems in its bookkeeping that caused it to overstate earnings by $90 million over four years and that its chief accountant had apparently disappeared.
The Northbrook, Ill.-based finance company said the irregularities appear to have come from unauthorised entries in financial records by its chief accounting officer.
The company said a special committee of the board has been formed to investigate with legal and accounting experts.
The accountant, James Doyle, was last seen at the company on Jan. 23, the day it reported fourth quarter results, Mercury Finance spokesman Joseph Kopec said.
"He called Friday and said he would not be in for personal reasons," Kopec said. "They haven't seen him since."
Doyle's whereabouts were unknown.
The problems may jeopardise Mercury's planned acquisition of Fidelity Acceptance Corp., a consumer finance company, from BankBoston Corp. in a $393 million deal announced on Jan. 10.
Wednesday's announcement caught the financial community by surprise, with analysts unwilling to comment after Mercury's statement, saying they were still trying to gather information.
As a result of the adjustments, shareholders' equity as of Dec. 31, 1996, would be reduced from $353 million to $263 million, the company said.
As a result of the overstatement of earnings, Mercury said it is in violation of some of its debt agreements and was negotiating with lenders.
It said its financial condition remained strong and would support continuing operations and its expansion plans.
BankBoston said it would await the results of the accounting investigation before proceeding with the sale of Fidelity Acceptance. Mercury said it was optimistic about completing the deal.
Mercury said 1996 net income would be restated to $56.7 million from $120.7 million, 1995 profits would be cut to $76.9 million from $98.9 million and 1994 earnings would be $83 million instead of the $86.5 million originally reported.
In addition, 1993 profits would be trimmed to $64.2 million from $64.9 million.
Mercury stock was halted all day on the New York Stock Exchange. It closed Tuesday at $14.875.
Moody's Investors Service cut its rating on Mercury's short-term borrowings and Standard &amp; Poor's said it may lower its rating.
Mercury Finance suffered another blow last year, when Daniel Terra, chairman of the company since it went public in 1989, died in June.
Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Canada's two largest banks, wrapped up the industry's third-quarter profit parade on Thursday with sharply higher earnings.
Royal Bank of Canada, the country's biggest bank, said income climbed 12 percent to C$358 million ($261 million) in the three months ended July 31.
CIBC, Canada's second largest bank, reported a 24 percent jump in income to C$336 million ($245 million).
CIBC's earnings per share of C$1.50 ($1.09) beat analysts' forecasts of around C$1.43 ($1.04) a share. Royal Bank reported a C$1.02 ($0.74) per share profit, in line with analysts' expectations.
The results capped a strong quarter for the six major banks and put them on track for a third straight year of record annual profits.
The group rang up a combined profit of C$5.17 billion ($3.7 billion) in the fiscal year ended Oct. 31.
Soaring bank profits have sparked hostility from Canadian consumers who complain about high service fees and tight lending policies.
In a bid to soften that criticism, the banks have taken to highlighting their tax bills and job creation efforts.
For example, CIBC said it paid out more than C$0.50 ($0.36) in taxes for every dollar earned so far this year.
The group's public relations efforts may get easier next year when analysts predict earnings growth will start to tail off.
In the third quarter, CIBC and Royal Bank gained from stronger loan volumes, higher brokerage and fee revenues and improving credit quality.
"Our solid performance this quarter reflects the continued strong contribution from our core businesses," CIBC chairman and chief executive officer Al Flood said in a statement.
The bank's return on equity, a key measure of profitability, was 16.6 percent in the third quarter, up from 13.7 in the same quarter last year.
Flood said CIBC's personal and commercial bank continued its strong performance this year.
Recent strategic moves at CIBC's brokerage unit, CIBC Wood Gundy, are also paying off wth new financial products and high-yield debt adding to the bank's bottom line.
Stronger revenues from underwriting, capital markets and foreign exchange pushed non-interest income up 17 percent to C$691 million ($504 million) in the third quarter.
Net interest income was up slightly to C$1.1 billion ($800 million) in the third quarter.
At Royal Bank, higher revenues from capital market, mutual fund and trading businesses pushed other income up 13 percent to C$757 million ($552 million).
Net interest income climbed three percent to C$1.1 billion ($800 million), due mostly to higher asset volumes, lower impaired loans and proceeds from the sale of bonds.
"This quarter was marked by higher growth in residential mortgages and other loans, continued improvement in credit quality and stronger performances from a number of fee-based businesses," said Royal Bank chairman John Cleghorn.
Royal Bank's return on equity was 17.2 percent compared to 16.4 percent in the third quarter of 1995.
Despite the strong performance, shares in both banks finished weaker on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce fell C$0.30 ($0.22) to C$45.15 ($32.80), while Royal Bank lost C$0.20 ($0.14) to close at C$34.20 ($25).
Britain's Northern Rock Building Society, due for flotation in the autumn, on Wednesday reported pretax profits of 167.5 million pounds ($270 million) for 1996, up 14 percent from 147 million the previous year.
The home loan provider said it would publish its transfer document giving details of the flotation and a preliminary valuation in the first week of March. Members will meet to vote on plans to convert the institution into a bank in April.
Northern Rock, based in the north-east of England and fiercely independent, said its profit figures excluded a non-recurring cost of 10.3 million pounds related to the conversion to bank status.
Uniquely, the society has said it will create a foundation to which it will covenant five percent of its annual pre-tax profits after flotation. The money will go to worthy causes, mostly local communities in its area of operation.
Northern Rock director Adam Applegarth declined to speculate on the value in shares each member would receive from the flotation. Predictions range between 750 and 1,000 pounds, valuing the floated company at more than one billion pounds.
Applegarth highlighted the fact that business had continued to perform well during the conversion process which he described as "onerous".
"As one of the most cost-efficient lenders, it's important for us to improve those efficiencies and we've done that," he said in an interview.
The society's cost to income ratio dipped to 33.1 percent at the end of 1996 compared with 33.5 percent at the end of 1995.
Applegarth pointed to the society's lending performance as a highlight of last year.
Net lending for the year rose 44 percent to 1.9 billion pounds from 1.3 billion with its share in Britain's net mortgage lending market rising to 10 percent from eight percent. Assets grew 19 percent to 13.7 billion pounds from 11.6 billion. Net receipts from savers rose to 584 million pounds from 560 million in the previous year.
Applegarth said the Northern Rock would not try to compete with Britain's large retail banks after its conversion in terms of the range of products they offer.
"I have no doubt that if we attempted to become an all-singing, all-dancing high street clearing bank we would be too small and we would get eaten up."
Applegarth rejected any charge that in the long-term, the society's members would be worse off because of conversion.
"What matters to customers is not the status of the company but the value of the packages they get."
Applegarth said that "hairshirt" mutuals who are trying to justify the maintanence of that status by effectively paying dividends to their members through deflating their profits will not be able to count on this strategy in the longer term.
"They don't have the profitability to go out and buy new customers," he said.
Applegarth said Northern Rock's cost to assets ratio of 0.72 percent compares with around 1.2 percent for the top 10 building societies. "That means I've got a 50 pence margin to play with. We can use some of it to improve profitability and some of it, frankly, to cherry-pick business." ($1=.6199 Pound)
Misys, Britain's fast-growing, 950 million pound ($1.5 billion) software supplier, posted record half-year results on Wednesday and said it was eyeing up to five international acquisition targets worth up to $30 million each.
Chairman Kevin Lomax told Reuters that Misys, which has snapped up software trading firms in South East Asia, Ireland, the U.S. and Europe, was keen on businesses that operated within a strong international financial services market.
"They (possible acquisition targets) are worth mainly between $2.0 million and $30 million...," Lomax said.
Misys, whose banking division alone now supplies software to 12,000 banks with 4,000 separate installations, has become one of the world's largest application software companies as consolidation in the industry gathers pace.
And with 18.7 million pounds of cash and undisclosed, but low debt levels, Lomax said the company had plently of headroom in its cash flow and borrowing facilities to enable it to embark again on the acquisition trail.
Only last month, Misys announced the planned $60 million acquistion of Summit Systems, a New York computer company specialising in financial derivatives trading software.
Supplying software to banks and insurers has brought rich rewards to Misys. The group raised pretax profits in the half year by 23 percent to 23.7 million pounds on revenues of 129.5 million pounds -- 10 percent higher than in the last half year.
Lomax said he saw the possibility of "creating quite a bit of shareholder value" by buying regional software companies, particularly in the banking industry.
The group has bought software businesses in risk management, private banking, corporate electronic banking, derivatives trading, capital markets trading --- areas where banks and securities firms want to expand and control their activities.
In the last 12 months, Misys's shares have more than doubled to 1140 pence from 567 pence as the group systematically targets international financial institutions that need new software at lower costs but with a greater security of transactions.
Lomax insists that he is unworried by the share price, which at about 20 times prospective earnings, no longer looks cheap. Competitors' price/earnings ratios are comparable, he says.
But the stock has slipped recently, and was trading 2.5 pence weaker at 1115p by 1115 GMT -- despite the strong results.
In terms of international banking, Misys is three to five times bigger than its competitors. Large rivals such as Reuters Holdings Plc and America's SunGard Data Systems impinge only on parts of its market, Lomax noted.
"Nobody of any serious calibre or size competes across the board with us."
The group lifted its half year dividend 15 percent to 4.57p.
($1=.6199 Pound)
Misys, Britain's fast-growing, 950 million pound software supply giant, said on Wednesday it was looking at four or five international acquisition targets worth up to $30 million each.
Chairman Kevin Lomax told Reuters that Misys, which has snapped up software trading firms in South East Asia, Ireland, the U.S. and Europe, was keen on businesses that operated within a strong international financial services market.  
"They (possible acquisition targets) are worth mainly between $2.0 million to $30 million -- and we might do one, we might do four," Lomax said.
With 18.7 million pounds of cash and an undisclosed, but low gearing level, Lomax said the company had plently of headroom in its cash flow and borrowing facilities to enable it to embark again on the acquisition trail.
Supplying software to banks and insurers has brought rich rewards to Misys. The group earlier raised pretax profits in the half year by 23 percent to 23.7 million pounds on revenues of 129.5 million pounds -- a 10 percent rise.  
Lomax said he saw the possibility of "creating quite a bit of shareholder value" by buying regional software companies, particularly in the banking industry.
Misys, whose banking division alone now supplies software to 12,000 banks and 4,000 installations, has become one of the world's largest application software companies as consolidation in the industry gathers pace.
In the last 12 months, its shares have almost doubled to 1115 pence from 567 pence as it systematically targets international financial institutions that need new software at lower costs but with a greater security of transactions.  
Lomax insists that he is unworried by the share price, which at about 20 times prospective earnings, no longer looks cheap. Competitors' PE ratios are comparable, he says.
But the stock slipped 2.5p to 1115p despite record results.
The company has bought software businesses in risk management, private banking, corporate electronic banking, derivatives trading, capital markets trading --- areas where banks and securities firms want to expand and control their activities.
"Internal production is not meeting the time to market requirements that these companies have -- so they tend to look outside to other (software) products," Lomax says.
Only last month, Misys announced the planned $60 million acquistion of Summit Systems, a New York computer company specialising in financial derivatives trading software.
In terms of international banking, Misys is three to five times bigger than its next competitor. Rivals such as Reuters Holdings and America's SunGard Data Systems impinge only on parts of its market, Lomax noted.
"Nobody of any serious calibre or size competes across the board with us."
The group lifted its half year dividend 15 percent to 4.57p.
London Newsroom +44 171 542 7987
Northern Rock Building Society will publish detailed proposals for its stock market flotation, including a preliminary valuation of the company, in the first week in March, director Adam Applegarth said on Wednesday.
Applegarth told Reuters in an interview that the document will be followed by a special meeting of members in April to vote on the approval.
But he declined to speculate on what value in shares each member would receive from the flotation, an amount which has been predicted at between 750 and 1,000 stg.  
Earlier, Northern Rock announced record profits in 1996, making a pre-tax profit of 167.5 million, a rise of 14 percent over the 145 million seen in 1995. This excluded 10.3 million stg of non-recurring costs related to the flotation.
Applegarth highlighted the fact that the business had continued to perform well during the conversion process which he described as "onerous".
"As one of the most cost-efficient lenders, it's important for us to improve those efficiencies and we've done that," Applegarth said. Cost to income ratio dipped to 33.1 percent at the end of 1996 compared with 33.5 percent at the end of 1995.  
Applegarth also pointed to the society's lending performance as a highlight of last year.
Net lending jumped 44 percent 1.9 billion stg, giving the Northern Rock around 10 percent of the UK net mortgage market.
Applegarth said market conditions were improving. "The general summary is that the market is looking slightly better than it did a year ago. With a bit of luck, this will be a sustained rise instead of falling back or a boom."
He said that if British interest rates needed to rise it would be better for the home lending market if this were to happen gradually.  
Applegarth said the Northern Rock will not try and compete with Britain's large retail banks after its conversion in terms of the range of products they offer.
"I have no doubt that if we attempted to become an all-singing, all-dancing high street clearing bank we would be too small and we would get eaten up," he added.
Applegarth rejected any charge that in the long-term, the society's members would be worse off because of conversion.
"What matters to customers is not the status of the company but the value of the packages they get."  
Applegarth said that "hairshirt" mutuals who are trying to justify the maintanence of that status by effectively paying dividends to their members through deflating their profits will not be able to count on this strategy in the longer term.
"They don't have the profitability to go out and buy new customers," he said.
Applegarth said Northern Rock's cost to assets ratio of 0.72 percent compares to around 1.2 percent for the top 10 building societies. "That means I've got a 50 pence margin to play with. We can use some of it to improve profitability and some of it, frankly, to cherry-pick business."
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864
Investing in Asian telecommunications stocks is full of hazards as the region grapples with a general lack of sophistication and wide discrepancies in demand and regulation, analysts say.
Views differ greatly on the potential of individual stocks and countries, but analysts generally agree that telecom regulation is the most important determinant to future performance.
"Understanding the regulators is essential as regulatory issues were the main determinant of Asian telecom stock performance last year," Jardine Fleming said in a recent report.
Asian telecom bulls say the global information revolution, combined with the region's rapid economic growth, have swamped the capacities of state-run operators, forcing a confrontation between regulators determined to meet demand and monopolistic state enterprises anxious to maintain market share.
"Asian telecom regulators, usually under-empowered, have promoted liberalisation, often taking on strong political and economic forces," Jardine Fleming said.
So far, regulators have responded by issuing licences -- a politics-fraught move that usually diminishes the prospects of the primary telecoms firm.
This is acceptable in low-penetration countries with untapped demand, analysts say, but more dicey in high-penetration markets, such as Hong Kong and Singapore.
"This is why deregulation in Hong Kong did not really make sense on the fixed-line side if the new licensees could not access the lucrative IDD sector, which they can," Jardine Fleming said.
DEREGULATION DAMPENS OUTLOOK ON HK, SINGAPORE TELECOMS
Continuing deregulation in Hong Kong and Singapore, two places with a high dependence on IDD traffic, has prompted a negative outlook on Singapore Telecom and Hongkong Telecom, it said.
In low-penetration countries such as Indonesia and the Philippines, regulators have issued concessions to build fixed lines, giving contractors the right to receive local revenues and perhaps a portion of those from domestic long distance.
Because the new local lines stimulate long-distance demand, this arrangement fails to attract the ire of primary telecoms which reap the benefit, analysts said.
This has worked well in Indonesia and the Philippines, where new local fixed lines are expected to boost earnings in both PT Telkom and Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co (PLDT) rather than eroding their market position.
The situation is very different in the cellular sector, where major market players are complaining that too many licences have been issued as they lose market share to strong second-tier players which are aggressively undercutting tariffs.
Because of this primary/secondary interplay, Jardine Fleming said it has turned negative on Advanced Info Services Plc and neutral on Piltel. But it remained positive on Total Access Communications Plc.
Malaysia's Technology Resources Industries Bhd has been battered down too hard, the brokerage believes, and it has been upgraded to a buy.
BROKERAGE BULLISH ON INDONESIA, PHILIPPINES
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell (DMG) is similarly optimistic on the outlook for PT Telkom and PLDT, but it adopts a much less optimistic overall view of Asia's telecom sector.
"The Asia-Pacific telecommunications industry is undergoing a period of rapid transition from a relatively underdeveloped and protected industry to one which is becoming increasingly saturated and highly competitive," DMG said in a recent report.
An overall increase in competitive pressures is not being made any easier by governments' liberal approach to the issue of licences and the lack of any industry consolidation, DMG said.
"In an environment of increasing saturation and rising competitive pressures, EPS (earnings per share) will continue to come under pressure," DMG said. "We believe that we are already witnessing signs of industry maturity."
DMG estimates that less than 10 percent of the population in the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia can afford telecom services.
DMG is positive on Indonesia and South Korea, but for different reasons.
Indonesia's lower telephone density combined with a restrictive and non-competitive regulatory structure are attractive, it said. In South Korea, a large middle class more than compensated for the higher number of phones.
"Although competitive pressures are rising, the combination of low, effective teledensity rates, a wide middle class and exceptionally aggressive capex and depreciation policy should ensure that Korea Mobile Telecom Co will continue to deliver above-average EPS growth rates," DMG said.
EVEN TOUGHER TASKS AHEAD FOR REGULATORS
Analysts said regulators have done the easy part -- issuing new licences. Now it gets tricky as new licensees demand better terms on geography, interconnection and IDD rights. Cellular licensees are also demanding more spectrum.
"What will be interesting to watch is how quickly these number two companies demand that they compete on fair terms with the primary telecoms," Jardine Fleming said.
A thankful Elizabeth Forsyth, a former aide of Polly Peck head Asil Nadir, walked free from court on Thursday after three judges allowed her appeal against a five-year sentence for handling stolen money.
Forsyth, 60, who is also appealing against the money-laundering conviction itself, described her 10 months in prison as an "experience".
"I would just like to thank the court for its understanding and consideration," Forsyth told reporters as she was freed from the cells of London's Royal Courts of Justice.
Forsyth, who was chairman of South Audley Management, a firm set up by Turkish Cypriot Nadir to deal with his wealthy family interests before his Polly Peck empire collapsed in 1990 under a mountain of debt, said she could not comment further on the appeal as it was still continuing.
Earlier, the appeal judges surprised the court by making it clear at once that Forsyth would not be returning to spend another night at Holloway prison.
"We have formed a view that this sentence cannot stand," Lord Justice Beldam said at the outset of the appeal hearing, adding that the sentence was so disproportionate that, "taking into account the time she has already served...she should not serve any longer."
Beldam, hearing the appeal with two other judges, then moved on to consider Forsyth's appeal against her conviction on two counts of dishonestly handling 400,000 pounds ($650,000) of stolen funds.
Forsyth's lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson, later made a bail application so that Forsyth could be freed pending the outcome of the rest of the appeal.
At the end of the court session, Forsyth told reporters she was heading for her mother's home.
"I'm looking forward to going home...and it won't be an iron bed with a thin mattress," she said, adding that her son was arrving for a family reunion.
She said of her time in prison, "I learnt an awful lot, it was an education process." She took up art in prison and was a library orderly.
Asked if she bore any grudges against the legal system, she said: "There's a lot wrong with the system. The prison officers work very hard to do a difficult job under difficult circumstances."
Forsyth has been in prison since March 1996 when Justice Sir Richard Tucker surprised those following the case with the severity of his sentence.
During her five-week trial, the jury accepted that Forsyth had helped to launder money that had been stolen from Polly Peck by Nadir.
Nadir still faces charges connected to Polly Peck but in 1993 he fled to northern Cyprus, a territory not recognised by the British government, skipping 3.5 million pounds ($5.67 million) bail.
Former Barings treasury and risk chief Ian Hopkins has been banned from being a director in the City, industry sources said on Thursday after a three-day disciplinary hearing.
Britain's Securities and Futures Authority (SFA) said in a statement that the outcome would not be formally announced until after any appeal process had ended.
But the sources said the tribunal had banned Hopkins from being a registered director for three years and ordered him to pay an unspecified amount of costs.
Hopkins, who was not immediately available for comment, did not appear before the tribunal, chaired by Judge Colin Kolbert, and was not legally represented.
After he has been formally given the full written judgment, he will have 10 business days to lodge an appeal.
Hopkins was among a group of former Barings executives against whom the SFA brought disciplinary charges for their part in the downfall of the investment bank. It collapsed nearly two years ago when Singapore-based trader Nick Leeson ran up debts of almost $1.4 billion in unauthorised derivatives trades.
Hopkins, who worked for Barings in London, has always maintained that he tried to warn other Barings executives of the bank's dangerous position but that he was effectively ignored.
He told a parliamentary committee investigation into Barings last year that his attempts to alert more senior Barings staff to potential problems had failed. He painted a picture of culture clashes between the traditional Barings banking activities and its newer securities activities.
In the official Singaporean report into the Barings affair, executives of the bank were criticised for not heeding Hopkins's warnings.
"In our view, the collapse might have been averted if Mr Hopkins's concerns had been taken seriously, and acted upon promptly and effectively," the Singapore inspectors said.
The tribunal heard the SFA case, put by prominent barrister Presiley Baxendale, and questioned seven witnesses. It also took into account evidence given by Hopkins to the Singapore enquiry and to Britain's Board of Banking Supervision.
Earlier this month the SFA reprimanded Barings former head of equity derivatives Mary Walz for her part in the bank's collapse and has already banned several other former Barings executives including former chief executive Peter Norris.
African coffee producers will meet before the end of February to discuss implementation of world export cuts set in Brazil on January 23, Ivory Coast's commodities minister Guy-Alain Gauze told a news conference on Thursday.
"A meeting will be held by the end of February," said Gauze who is also chairman of the Interafrican Coffee Organisation (IACO) producer group.
African and Asian states agreed at the end of emergency talks of the Association of Coffee producing Countries (ACPC) in Rio de Janeiro on Janaury 23 to cut robusta exports by one million 60-kg bags between January and June 1997.
A meeting in Bali on February 6 on sharing out the export cuts between the two regions would follow 10 days of informal discussions since January 23, an ICO spokesman told Reuters.
"We are satisfied by the results at Rio and the idea now is to put together control and verification mechanisms to ensure measures succeed," said OIC chief economist Donald Kaberuka.
Gauze did not specify the basis on which export curbs would be distributed between Asian and African regions, or between individual countries.
Arabica producers at the Rio talks also agreed to cut their output by a total of 300,000 (18,000 tonnes).
African producers had complained that previous export restraints had been ineffective in shoring up sagging coffee prices in late 1996, calling on non-member producers to join the ACPC.
((--Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90))
Ivory Coast's 1996/97 coffee is likely to be well up on last season but rising volumes are bringing quality problems, regional buyers and exporters' agents said.
They expect coffee marketing, sluggish for the time of year, to pick up in February.
"There's a lot of coffee about but quality is poor," said one buyer based in the Man region. "We could see well over 230,000 tonnes but exporters have bought little so far and made large quality adjustments."
Port forwarding agents said they had noted no major quality problems with coffee received for export. One quality inspector suggested that as little as 150,000 tonnes could be shipped out this season.
Ivory Coast opened its 1996/97 coffee season late on November 14 amid plummeting prices, and forecast output at 230,000 tonnes against 180,000 last year.
Farmgate prices were cut by 200 CFA to 500 CFA a kilo.
"Farmers have been waiting for a price rise hoping it will be a sellers' market," said one buyer. "Little care has been taken over sorting as farmers have less time, but exporters want better quality than last year."
Farmers face a higher than normal January cocoa harvest as well.
"This season will be twice a long as usual," said one buyer north of San Pedro, commenting on the slow start.
"We should be busy into April," said a buyer around Soubre.
Buyers expected to be at their busiest in February and March with port forwarders slating peak arrivals in April and May.
Large amounts of coffee could be seen along roadsides around buyers' stores this week with stocks said to be rising.
Buyers in most regions pointed to high percentages of black beans, fragments and bean husks.
"Humidity is around 16 percent," said one buyer in San Pedro, against a 13 percent export standard. "Exporters are rejecting around 10 percent even after sorting," he added.
One buyer in Sassandra in the south said some farmers were delivering sacks with 50 percent of problem beans.
Quality is widely seen as better in more productive northern areas around Man, where weather had been more favourable.
"Farmers are only now getting the message about quality but we have been buying since November," said the manager of a new buying unit in Man opened by a processor.
The unit was advertising 30 CFA above guideline prices for top grades but paid 477 CFA for lower grades. Margins of up to two percent for quality variation applied within each grade.
About one thousand tonnes had been bought by the end of January. Around 420 tonnes had left for Abidjan, with the rest, including 299 tonnes of low grade stocks, in Man warehouses.
Other buyers in the Man area, which is expected to produce 30 percent (corrects from 80 percent) of Ivory Coast's coffee, said they could not match the prices paid by processors.
"They can buy directly and save on transport and lower middleman charges," said one. Farmers had got into the habit of not sorting coffee in the past two years, he added.
Banks have been reluctant to fund exporters' buying operations out of concern that the Caistab would not pay up price support to its clients.
Buyers said some large exporters had not bought any crop.
A French coffee scientist based in Man said coffee bush flowering was good in many areas but dry Harmattan conditions could kill new fruits if rain did not fall.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Ivory Coast's 1996/97 cocoa crop is likely to top one million tonnes after good January harvests and abundant flowering for the mid-crop (April-Sept), crop analysts and buyers say.
"The total crop will be at least one million tonnes," said one crop analyst returning from an upcountry tour of cocoa farms. "The flowers and cherelles (early pods) are there and with a little more rain we could see well over a million."
One source estimated arrivals by January 27 at over 750,000 tonnes. Industry estimates of arrivals up to January 20 from October 1, were in the 710,000 to 720,000-tonne range. This compares with around 800,000 in the previous season.
Attention is now focused on rainfall figures and pod survival rates in coming weeks for a firmer indication of midcrop tonnage.
Ivory Coast posted a record 1.2 million tonnes crop in 1995/96 after an unexpectedly strong 200,000 tonne mid-crop and has forecast 950,000 tonnes for 1996/97.
Crop analysts said pod loads were heaviest in younger hybrid tree farms in southwestern areas where rainfall had also been more favourable for late main crop and mid-crop development.
"Canopies are in reasonable shape and there are plenty of one to four inch cherelles and pods," said one analyst.
Farms north of San Pedro seen by Reuters still bore noticeable late main crop pod loads but older trees, around Daloa and Gagnoa, generally had few flowers and pods.
Upcountry buyers' stores were surrounded by large amounts of drying January cocoa, with more arriving from village farms.
"Cocoa is coming out fast. Farmers have no incentive to stock so we are seeing fresh crop," said one store owner in Meadji. "Exporters are not buying but we expect things to get (cocoa) moving again in February and March." Stocks would rise in some areas for a short period, he added.
"January has been better than last year," said one buyer at in Issia. "Our November estimates were too low." He and others agreed that February and March harvests would be down on 1995/96.
Buyers around Gagnoa and Daloa said most main crop pods had been harvested by mid-January but large amounts of cocoa still up-country would not be seen at ports until mid-February.
Harmattan wind conditions had returned to cocoa areas a week ago making drying of cocoa easier, but farmers said they expected rains to return after a brief wave of showers in mid-January.
A new manager at Ivory Coast's largest plantation near Gagnoa said care of trees would be more determinant for pod and flower survival rates away from hybrid areas.
"Farmers have not kept up maintenance and canopy trimming around here and the results are clear," he said.
He pointed to plantation trees at one side of a bush track with late main crop pods, and plenty of cherelles and flowers.
On the other side of the track, more densely planted and villagers' untrimmed trees on similar soil were largely bare.
Exporters' agents and buyers say cocoa purchasing has dropped off now that Ivory Coast's warehouses are full.
Shipments remain low on weak overseas demand.
"There are no shipments so exporters have cut purchasing," said one exporter. "At San Pedro, arrivals are coming in at 10,000 tonnes a week compared to 30,000 in December."
Exporters said port stocks estimated at upwards of 380,000 tonnes would shrink in February and especially March when they expect export contract deadlines to boost shipment levels.
Cocoa humidity levels of 6-8 percent were being recorded upcountry. Buyers said they would mix new arrivals with 8-10 percent cocoa stored in San Pedro stores waiting for an upswing in demand. Only 15 exporters out of 44 were actively purchasing, one said.
Shipping forwarders at San Pedro said empty warehouse space would rise from February. "Contracts will pick up next month but March will be a boom (for shipments)."
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Colombia will announce cuts in coffee exports next week under the terms of a beefed up retention plan recently agreed by members of the Association of Coffee Producing Countries (ACPC), coffee czar Jorge Cardenas said on Thursday.
The head of the National Coffee Growers' Federation also said Colombia's internal coffee price would be raised in view of recent gains in international markets. He did not, however, say when the hike would take effect nor what the percentage rise would be.
In the provinces, meanwhile, coffee growers are becoming increasingly worried about potential crop damage caused by recent torrential downpours, which meteorologists say have pushed rainfall levels up to 160 percent higher than the seasonal average. Weather forecasters say the outlook for February is just as bad.
Under terms of the ACPC deal hammered out in Rio de Janeiro on Jan. 23, member nations will slash back total exports by 1.3 million bags in the first half of 1997 from the original target of 26.28 million bags set in May.
One million bags of that will be robusta but arabica- producing countries, like Colombia, agreed to rein back 300,000 bags of exports in solidarity. Cardenas declined to specify what proportion of the cut would correspond to Colombia.
"The cuts will respond to production conditions and the export situation in each individual country. We will be announcing the cuts this will imply for Colombia next week," Cardenas told Reuters.
As speculation grew this week that the federation would announce the rise in internal coffee prices at its first meeting of the year Friday, Jan. 31, private exporters complained of short supplies.
"Intermediaries and producers have increased prices to scandalous levels in anticipation of a rise in the internal coffee price. Some are just holding on and won't even sell. In some cases prices are up by as much as 10 percent," said Alvaro Ramirez of Cargill exporters.
"In view of the situation in external markets, we will of course have to raise the internal price of coffee," Cardenas said. "We will do the projections and take the decision on the basis of that," he said.
The federation cut internal coffee prices by 14,000 pesos per 125-kg load to 221,500 after a turbulent coffee growers' congress on Dec. 5. The move aimed to reduce the deficit of the Coffee Fund, an organization administered by the federation which buys all Colombian coffee at a pre-agreed support price.
The cut was achieved by withdrawing a 14,000 peso premium, paid in the form of a bond instead of cash, which had been introduced to compensate for the poor outlook for coffee in the 1996 calendar year.
The good news on the internal price front, however, is taking a back seat to the recent weather problems.
"In the southwest and Andean regions, and particularly the coffee growing region, rainfall has been as much as 160 percent higher than normal," said Leonardo Rivera, meteorologist at the national weather center IDEAM.
"These conditions will be prolonged and we're likely to see similar levels of rainfall through February," he added.
January and February are normally dry months in Colombia. But the torrential rains this year have been caused by a cooling in the surface temperature of the Pacific ocean, known as the La Nina effect -- conditions not seen for at least the last 10 years.
Coffee growers say the rains are delaying the flowering period and fear the main harvest, which normally begins in October, could either be very late or that a part could be lost entirely.
Cardenas said it was too early to predict what the impact of the weather could be on crop levels but said federation technicians were drawing up a detailed report, which they hoped to issue in mid-February.
((--Bogota newsroom, 571 610 7944))
Mercury Finance Co.'s agreement to buy a consumer finance business fell apart Thursday after the auto-loan company said phony bookkeeping entries had inflated its earnings and it had fired its chief accountant.
At the same time, the officer blamed for the overstated earnings may be cooperating with federal authorities.
BankBoston Corp. said it terminated its agreement to sell its Fidelity Acceptance Corp. unit to Mercury for 32.7 million shares of Mercury stock. When the deal was announced on Jan. 10, the stock was worth about $458 million.
Mercury Finance stock has not traded since it closed at $14.875 on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. The NYSE would not indicate where the stock might open but traders said it was changing hands at $4.25 overseas. That would make the 32.7 million shares worth about $139 million.
"BankBoston today informed Mercury Finance Co. that recent events regarding Mercury Finance constituted a breach of the provisions of BankBoston's agreement for the exchange of shares of Fidelity Acceptance Corp. for shares of Mercury Finance," BankBoston said in a statement.
Analysts said BankBoston, a Boston-based banking company, would have little trouble finding another buyer for Fidelity, its auto financing arm.
"At the time they were structuring this deal there were four or five other firms that expressed interest or made bids on Fidelity," said Nancy Bush at Brown Brothers Harriman.
"I don't think they're going to get the kind of sweetheart deal they got with Mercury," she added.
A Mercury Finance spokesman declined to comment on the deal.
But the spokesman said the company was interested in talking to James Doyle, the controller who Mercury Finance said had disappeared but who is reportedly cooperating with federal authorities.
A Dow Jones news wire report quoted Doyle's attorney as saying Doyle had accused Mercury Finance of a charade and that the controller had not disappeared but was cooperating with the authorities.
The attorney was not available and his assistant would not confirm the accuracy of the Dow Jones report.
A spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Chicago declined to comment.
Mercury Finance said on Wednesday its 1996 earnings would be restated to $56.7 million from $120.7 million and that earnings for the three prior years would also be adjusted downward, though not as sharply.
The problems appeared to stem from unauthorised entries in financial records by its chief accounting officer, Doyle, who the company said had been fired.
Mercury Finance also said it was in violation of certain provisions if its loan agreements and that a special committee of directors has been formed to investigate the problems.
Mercury Finance said Thursday that the NYSE was seeking more information. Mercury spokesman Joseph Kopec said the exchange wanted "additional assurance that the numbers in the release Wednesday were reliable."
Kopec said he did not know if the Lake Forest, Ill.-based finance company would issue additional information.
Mercury Finance also got hit by at least three lawsuits charging it violated securities laws.
Filed in federal court in Chicago on Wednesday and Thursday, the lawsuits alleged the company and some senior officers misrepresented or omitted crucial information about Mercury Finance's earnings for the last three years, lawyers who filed the suits said in statements.
Also, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. cut its debt rating on the company's commercial paper and said it may cut the rating further.
Mercury Finance Co. got hit by a lawsuit charging it violated securities laws after the auto-loan company said phony bookkeeping entries had inflated its earnings and that it fired its chief accountant.
The stock, which remained halted on the New York Stock Exchange, has not traded since it closed at $14.875 on Tuesday.
The exchange would not indicate where the stock might open but traders said it was changing hands at $4.25 overseas, which would mean a loss of more than $1.8 billion in market worth for the company, based in suburban Lake Forest, Ill.
One of the officers named in the lawsuit was James Doyle, the former controller who Mercury said has not been seen since last Thursday. In its statement on Wednesday, Mercury said it fired Doyle.
Filed in federal court in Chicago on Wednesday, the lawsuit alleges the company and some senior officers misrepresented or omitted crucial information about Mercury's earnings for the last three years, lawyers who filed the suit said in a statement.
The lawsuit also said Doyle had sold tens of thousands and Chairman John Brincat hundreds of thousands of shares of Mercury stock at inflated prices, netting millions of dollars in illegal profits.
Brincat was not available for comment. A company spokesman declined to comment. Attempts to locate Doyle were not successful.
The finance company said on Wednesday its 1996 earnings would be restated to $56.7 million from $120.7 million and that earnings for the three prior years would also adjusted downward, though not as sharply.
The problems appeared to stem from unauthorised entries in financial records by its chief accounting officer, Doyle, the company said.
It also said it was in violation of certain provisions if its loan agreements and that a special committee of directors has been formed to investigate the problems.
Analysts were hesitant to talk about Mercury, saying they did not have much information.
But they did say the company's planned acquisition of Fidelity Acceptance from BankBoston Corp. was unlikely to be completed. The deal, announced on Jan. 10, called for Mercury to issue about $458 million in stock to BankBoston. BankBoston said on Wednesday it was awaiting an audit of Mercury.
"I think the odds are very high that the deal will not go through," one analyst said, who asked not to be identified.
Analysts also said Mercury has not been as forthcoming as other consumer finance companies when providing detailed financial information.
Mercury helped pioneer the business of lending to consumers whose credit was less than perfect. It started making loans to people in the military and has grown into one of the country's largest lenders in the used-car market.
"They haven't been quite as open as any others in the industry have been," one analyst said.
Two brokerage firms cut ratings on Mercury Thursday.
Gruntal &amp; Co. said it suspended its rating, adding, "We recommend that holders exit positions as soon as possible."
Piper Jaffray cut its rating to market performer from buy and in a research report said, "Our guess is most of the over recognised income came from (Mercury's) insurance subsidiary."
Mercury Finance Co. said Wednesday it found problems in its bookkeeping that caused it to overstate earnings by $90 million over four years and that its chief accountant had apparently disappeared.
The Northbrook, Ill.-based finance company said the irregularities appear to have come from unauthorized entries in financial records by its chief accounting officer.
The company said a special committee of the board has been formed to investigate with legal and accounting experts.
The accountant, James Doyle, was last seen at the company on Jan. 23, the day it reported fourth quarter results, Mercury Finance spokesman Joseph Kopec said.
"He called Friday and said he would not be in for personal reasons," Kopec said. "They haven't seen him since."
Doyle's whereabouts were unknown.
The problems may jeopardize Mercury's planned acquisition of Fidelity Acceptance Corp., a consumer finance company, from BankBoston Corp. in a $393 million deal announced on Jan. 10.
Wednesday's announcement caught the financial community by surprise, with analysts unwilling to comment after Mercury's statement, saying they were still trying to gather information.
As a result of the adjustments, shareholders' equity as of Dec. 31, 1996, would be reduced from $353 million to $263 million, the company said.
As a result of the overstatement of earnings, Mercury said it is in violation of some of its debt agreements and was negotiating with lenders.
It said its financial condition remained strong and would support continuing operations and its expansion plans.
BankBoston said it would await the results of the accounting investigation before proceeding with the sale of Fidelity Acceptance. Mercury said it was optimistic about completing the deal.
Mercury said 1996 net income would be restated to $56.7 million from $120.7 million, 1995 profits would be cut to $76.9 million from $98.9 million and 1994 earnings would be $83 million instead of the $86.5 million originally reported.
In addition, 1993 profits would be trimmed to $64.2 million from $64.9 million.
Mercury stock was halted all day on the New York Stock Exchange. It closed Tuesday at $14.875.
Moody's Investors Service cut its rating on Mercury's short-term borrowings and Standard &amp; Poor's said it may lower its rating.
Mercury Finance suffered another blow last year, when Daniel Terra, chairman of the company since it went public in 1989, died in June.
A thankful Elizabeth Forsyth, a former aide of Polly Peck head Asil Nadir, walked free from court on Thursday after three judges allowed her appeal against a five-year sentence for handling stolen money.
Forsyth, 60, who is also appealing against the money-laundering conviction itself, described her 10 months in prison as an "experience".
"I would just like to thank the court for its understanding and consideration," Forsyth told reporters as she was freed from the cells of London's Royal Courts of Justice.
She said she could not comment further on the appeal as it was still continuing.
Earlier, the appeal judges surprised the court by making it clear at once that Forsyth would not be returning to spend another night at Holloway prison.
"We have formed a view that this sentence cannot stand," Lord Justice Beldam said at the outset of the appeal hearing, adding that the sentence was so disproportionate that, "taking into account the time she has already served...she should not serve any longer."
Beldam, hearing the appeal with two other judges, then moved on to consider Forsyth's appeal against her conviction on two counts of dishonestly handling 400,000 pounds ($650,000) of stolen funds.
Forsyth's lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson QC, later made a bail application so that Forsyth could be freed pending the outcome of the rest of the appeal.
Forsyth has been in prison since March 1996 when Justice Sir Richard Tucker surprised those following the case with the severity of his sentence.
She was chairman of South Audley Management, a firm set up by Turkish Cypriot Nadir to deal with his wealthy family interests before his Polly Peck empire collapsed in 1990 under a mountain of debt.
During her five-week trial, the jury accepted that Forsyth had helped to launder money that had been stolen from Polly Peck by Nadir.
Nadir still faces charges connected to Polly Peck but in 1993 he fled to northern Cyprus, a territory not recognised by the British government, skipping 3.5 million pounds ($5.67 million) bail.
One of Forsyth's supporters told Reuters outside the court that her 90-year-old mother had been told and was said to be "well pleased". At the time of her sentencing, Forsyth's lawyers had argued for leniency saying she should remain outside prison to care for her mother.
Another of Forsyth's lawyers, Peter Krivinskas, said an application by Nadir to have the charges against him dropped would probably depend on the outcome of Forsyth's appeal against her conviction.
The outcome of the original trial was seen as a boost for Britain's Serious Fraud Office (SFO) which prosecutes big fraud cases but has failed to secure convictions in several high-profile cases.
($1=.6172 Pound)
A British High Court judge rejected on Thursday a $1.8 billion claim by the liquidators of Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI) against accountancy firm Ernst &amp; Whinney, now known as Ernst &amp; Young.
BCCI was closed by central banks in 1991 and collapsed with debts of more than $12 billion amid evidence of massive fraud and money laundering which has since led to a complex series of court cases, both criminal and civil, in several countries.
Judge Hugh Laddie said the claim by the liquidators of BCCI (Overseas), Deloitte &amp; Touche, that Ernst &amp; Whinney owed a duty of care to the bank was based "long on assertion and deficient on relevant facts".
Ernst &amp; Young said the original claim against its predecessor firm was for $10 billion but this was reduced to $3.5 billion in June 1995.
Following this judgement, the principal claim against Ernst &amp; Whinney now stands at around $1.7 billion in respect of the firm's 1985 and 1986 audit of BCCI Holdings SA and BCCI SA.
A similar claim remains outstanding against another international accountancy firm, Price Waterhouse, which took over as auditor to BCCI in 1987 when Ernst &amp; Whinney resigned.
"The BCCI liquidators have now had struck out, or been forced to withdraw, 85 percent of the claims originally brought against Ernst &amp; Whinney," said Ernst &amp; Young senior partner Nick Land. "We look forward to dealing with the remaining 15 percent in a similar fashion and to recovering our costs which are substantial."
Land attacked the liquidators for choosing to spend millions of pounds pursuing what he called "speculative and unfounded claims" rather than making money available to those who suffered losses from the BCCI collapse.
Deloitte &amp; Touche was not immediately available to comment on the judgement.
After a five year struggle, BCCI creditors began to receive payments last month. Deloitte &amp; Touche said it was making a payment of $2.65 billion, equal to 24.5 percent of their claims.
BCCI had assets of $24 billion and operations in 71 countries at the time of the collapse.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key index ended higher on Wednesday, but the overall market finished mixed in thin trading as many money managers decided to place their bets on fixed income investments.
The TSE 300 Composite Index rose 24.57 points to close at 6071.28 in turnover of 105.3 million shares worth C$1.4 billion ($1.04 billion).
Almost all of Toronto's 14 sub-indices ended higher except transportation. Despite these gains, declining stocks outpaced advances 492 to 483 with 281 issues unchanged.
"I think the market's kind of jittery," said Oppenheimer &amp; Co Inc chief strategist Michael Metz.
ScotiaMcLeod's director of investment research Jim Doak agreed. "People are being cagey, not going to equity funds," he said.
Many mutual fund managers are trading cautiously and awaiting direction in the market after this week's volatility, analysts said.
New York soared 84.7 points to close at 6740.7 following yesterday's roller-coaster ride in North American markets.
Media, consumer products, golds and real estate posted the strongest gains among Toronto's rising sectors.
Smaller issues, including some heavyweight gold stocks, we're sold off in thin trading, one trader said.
Golden Rule Resources Ltd. lost 2.70 to 10.05 on more than three million shares. Brokerage firm ScotiaMcLeod recommended selling the prospector after shares nearly tripled since January 6 on initial results from its Ghana property.
Bre-X Minerals Ltd. slipped 0.05 to 21.65 while potential partner Barrick Gold Corp. rose 0.20 to 37.05. Both denied an earlier report which said Bre-X may be able to hold an auction for control over its huge Busang gold deposit in Indonesia.
Shares in Placer Dome Inc., Barrick's possible rival, rose 0.70 to close at 28.60.
China issued an anti-corruption communique to the Communist Party on Thursday, warning members of the party that swept to power in 1949 on a platform of integrity not to exploit official power for personal profit.
The communique, issued by the ruling party's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, also warned officials and the 57 million party members not to hold political views that differ from the party line.
Beijing had scored great successes in battling graft in 1996 but further efforts were needed to combat official corruption this year, said the communique, published by the People's Daily, mouthpiece of the ruling party. "We must see with a clear head that the phenomenon of corruption still exists and in some places is spreading rapidly," the communique said.
"Some unhealthy tendencies still have not been effectively contained and officials in some places and departments still do not have a sufficient understanding of the seriousness of the anti-corruption drive," it said. The communique followed a speech on Wednesday by President Jiang Zemin, who has staked much of his political credibility on fighting graft and who said the anti-corruption battle was a struggle upon which the fate of the nation and party depended.
It reminded government officials that they were forbidden from exploiting their political clout to secure loans, goods or business contracts for their spouses or children.
Beijing would also punish officials in loss-making state-owned firms who used company funds for personal use or who caused huge business losses through mismanagement, it said.
Disciplinary watchdogs would maintain a vigilant eye for officials who failed to toe the party line and be good communists, it said.
"Officials at every level...must strictly observe political discipline and maintain agreement with the central government in politics, ideology and action," it said.
"Party members, leaders and officials must...be honest in performing their duties, be staunch in their faith in communism and diligently uphold communist values," it said.
Those who violated political discipline would be strictly punished, it said without elaborating.
Corruption, virtually unknown in China under the strict Stalinist rule of the late party Chairman Mao Zedong, who led the communists to power in 1949, has boomed during nearly two decades of market-oriented economic reform.
Disciplinary authorities punished more than 116,000 officials for exploiting their positions for personal gain in 1996, up 14.3 percent from the year before, discipline committee chairman Wei Jianxing said this week.
More than 72,000 officials had owned up to using their power to obtain better housing, with 74 percent handing over a total of 94 million yuan ($11.3 million) to pay for the housing.
Analysts say Jiang, who in 1989 was plucked from his post as Shanghai party secretary to become anointed successor to paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, is anxious to win popular loyalty with his high-profile anti-graft campaign.
While the president and party chief has won some credit from the netting of corrupt senior officials such as former Beijing party chief and Politburo member Chen Xitong, many Chinese say results of the corruption crackdown have been patchy at best.
The Toronto stock market joined a rally in bonds and finished stronger on Friday, resisting a late session downturn in New York and weakness in heavyweight gold stocks.
Toronto's key 300 Composite Index rose 24.48 points to close at 6109.58. About 105 million shares changed hands worth C$1.48 billion ($1.1 billion).
"It's the strength in the bond market and the bill market," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie.
North American bonds rallied after U.S. gross domestic product data released early Friday suggested inflation is not accelerating. The data eased fears of higher U.S. interest rates following next week's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee meeting.
Canada's benchmark 30-year bond jumped C$1.20 to close at C$109.15, yielding 7.215 percent.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 10.77 points at 6813.09, but partly recovered from earlier lows due to profit taking, analysts said.
In Toronto, the TSE suffered losses in only four of 14 sub-groups. The key gold sector lost 0.7 percent followed by conglomerates, transportation and base metals.
The strong side was led by retail, pipelines, forestry products and consumer products.
Advancing issues outpaced declines 539 to 436 with 290 stocks unchanged.
Among hot stocks, high technology firm Mitel Corp. fell 0.85 to 9.85 on turnover of 2.4 million shares after reporting relatively flat third quarter profits.
Northern Telecom Ltd. rose 2.25 to close at 99.50. Nortel said after the market closed on Thursday that it is bullish on Latin America and will seek further business in Mexico.
Takeover target Morrison Petroleum Ltd. fell 0.15 to close at 10.25 on 2.34 million shares as it battles a hostile bid from Canadian 88 Energy Corp.
Canadian 88's stock dipped 0.10 to finish at 6.30 on 142,000 shares.
Port arrivals of 1996/97 Ivorian cocoa ranged between 745-755,000 tonnes by January 27 compared to 800,000 tonnes in 1995/96 as exporters cut up-country buying for lack of storage space, industry sources and exporters say.
"There's cocoa all over the place," said one Abidjan exporter. "I have trucks waiting to unload but no space or pallets until I ship 5,000 tonnes next week," he added.
Crop analysts returning from upcountry reported heavy pod loads in southwestern Ivorian hybrid plantations. Upcountry store managers told Reuters their stocks would rise into February.
All eyes are focused on weather data as favourable showers before April could swell mid crop cocoa volumes.
"The trees need about 10 mm a week between now and then," said one plantation owner, giving a rough mid-crop forecast of 150,000-175,000 tonnes. "That of course depends on rain."
Others put the figure at over 100,000 tonnes, with one local crop forecaster more bullish at 200,000 tonnes. Ivory Coast notched up a record 1.2 million tonnes crop in 1995/96 after an unexpectedly strong 200,000 tonne mid-crop. The government has forecast 950,000 tonnes for 1996/97.
This season's arrivals were expected to be more strung out than last season's.
One crop analyst said,"When arrivals figures pick up again and reflect what is out there arrivals could be closer to a million before the mid crop starts."
His estimate was higher than most others.
Exporters in Ivory Coast's two main ports are battling to find warehouse space with many cutting purchasing until shipments leave.
A late February surge is expected at San Pedro.
"Everything will be off the trees by the end of February so a wave of cocoa will leave Ivory Coast against March contracts," said the Abidjan exporter. "San Pedro has been very busy."
Port forwarders and inspectors reported improving bean quality with grain sizes below 100 beans per 100 grammes. Bean humidity levels had dropped to 6-8 percent from 8-10 percent in December and early January.
Export standard is 105 beans and under per 100 grammes and eight percent and under for humidity.
San Pedro exporter Jean-Abile Gal (JAG) has reported two drying plant fires.
Full warehouses were surrounded by drying beans and lines of palleted cocoa fresh from trucks.
A JAG cocoa and coffee plantation manager said a dryer might be sent down from his Gagnoa area site to speed up conditioning.
San Pedro processor SACO has full warehouses and more cocoa under awnings at the front of its plant.
"January is definitely busier than last year but I don't have the figures immediately to hand," said one exporter. Warehouse space at San Pedro is set to rise from 1998 with forwarders SAGA building a 12,000 tonne capacity shed and an Ivorian maritime firm, SIVOM, planning another, smaller unit.
Bulk shipments loading improvements are also set to improve evacuation of cocoa from the port with forwarder SAGA planning to raise loading rates from 40 to 100 tonnes an hour.
One bulk ship, Pantelis K, left Ivory Coast last week with 7,000 tonnes.
Industry sources said upcountry buyers were transporting cocoa to port in 40 tonne loads on trucks designed for 23 tonnes.
Tilting and bent trailers, some being repaired along roadsides, were making their way to port through numerous police and army checkpoints.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Mercury Finance Co is likely to spend a tense weekend with its bankers trying to work out arrangments to solve its liquity crisis, the failure of which could force the company to file for bankrupcty protection, analysts and attorney's said.
The Lake Forest, Illinois-based auto finance company said Friday it could not raise new commercial paper to repay maturing debt and could not pay $17 million in commercial paper due Friday.
A finance company like Mercury makes money on the difference, or spread, between what it pays to borrow money and the higher rates it charges its customers. A finance company without a source of funds is like a retailer without a source of merchandise, analysts noted.
"If you can't fund, you're out of business," one equity analyst that follows the company said, requesting anonymity.
Some rating agencies, including Standard &amp; Poor's Corp, lowered Mercury's commercial paper to a default rating Friday.
"They're very close to some reorganization, bankruptcy filing, probably a voluntary reorganization," said Thomas Kmiotek, analyst at Duff &amp; Phelps Credit Rating Co.
He and other analysts noted the company has another $100 million in commercial paper due Thursday, February 6.
A Mercury  spokesman did not return repeated calls seeking comment on the company's financing Friday afternoon.
Aside from the company's current inability to sell debt, Mercury is also facing a host of shareholder lawsuits, filed after the company said it had to restate its net income over the past four years by a total of about $90 million because of accounting irregularities.
Lawsuits do not become a financial liability for the company unless there is a judgment in favor of the shareholders. However, the company's admission of misstatements makes it easier for the sharheolders to prove their case, leaving only the questions of who would have to pay how much, one securities lawyer said.
"Securities laws are very, very simple," said Ted Koenig, a partner with Chicago-based lawfirm Holleb &amp; Coff "If there is an ommission or misstatement of a material fact... there's liabiltiy."
Also, the company's market capitalization plunged by about $2.2 billion Friday, based on the 13 point fall of Mercury's shares and the 172 million shares the company said it had outstanding late last year. That reduces the equity cushion the company has available to show its creditors, Koenig said.
But analysts also said the company had about $1 billion in loans receivable on its books at the end of October, 1996 -- an asset to show creditors.
"No one has questioned the validity of the amount of receivables they have on their books or the quality of those receivables," Kmiotek said.
Also, Mercury has generally been well regarded in the sub-prime credit quality loan business, which could help it negotiate with its banks and continue as a going concern, said analysts and lawyers familiar with the company.
Mercury said in a statement it is in discussions with its lenders to satisfy working capital needs, but that it could not predict the outcome of those discussions.
((Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
Just days after a U.S. graduate student cracked the most powerful computer encryption system allowed out of the country, the Commerce Department announced it would allow three companies to export an even stronger system.
Until this year, computer encryption programmes, which scramble information and render it unreadable without a password or software "key," were classified as munitions and stronger programmes could not be exported.
But under a controversial new Clinton administration policy that took effect Jan. 1, companies may recieve permission to export stronger programmes.
"I'm happy that we've been able to do this within the first month without rancour or difficulty," Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration William Reinsch said in a telephone interview.
To export stronger programmes immediately, companies must agree to incorporate features within two years allowing the government to decode encrypted messages by recovering the software keys.
The adminstration's policy has been widely criticised as not relaxing the export limits enough and some companies feared the requirement for a two-year plan would substantially delay export approvals.
The quick approvals should quell some of the criticism and encourage more applicants, Reinsch said.
"As a result of this, you will have more companies taking it seriously and we will expect more plans over the next couple of months," he said.
Encryption was once the realm of spies and generals. But with the explosion of online commerce on the Internet, encryption has become a vital tool for protecting everything from a business' e-mail message to a consumer's credit card number sent over the Net.
The amount of protection afforded by encryption is largely a function of the length of the software key measured in bits, the smallest unit of computer data.
Companies said products with just 40-bit long keys, the old limit, were too easy to crack. The approvals came just days after Ian Goldberg, a graduate student at the University of California, cracked a message encoded with a sofware key 40-bits long.
The government did not name the companies on Friday given permission to export stronger, 56-bit programmes, but Glenwood, Maryland-based Trusted Information Systems acknowledged that it was one of the three.
"Recent attacks on 40-bit encryption have shown that a global move to at least 56-bit (U.S. government standard) security must come soon," Trusted Information Executive Vice President Steven Lipner said.
A battle to revolutionise British television with more channels, high-quality pictures and CD-quality sound began Friday when two new TV groups applied to run Britain's key digital terrestrial television services.
Leading heavyweights BSkyB, Carlton Communications and Granada Group are teaming up to create a formidable new company -- British Digital Broadcasting.
It plans to offer an initial 15 channels including subscription channels from the British Broadcasting Corporation .
The group faces competition from Britain's third largest cable operator CableTel, which is wholly-owned by U.S. cable company International CableTel, and which also owns NTL, one of two major British transmission companies.
This group, which plans to offer about 20 channels, interactive services such as home shopping and home banking and information services, is called Digital Terrestrial Network (DTN).
"This is the most exciting development in broadcasting since the introduction of colour," said DTN Chief Executive Jeremy Thorp. "We are on the brink of a revolution in entertainment, information and telecommunications."
Thorp gave away few clues about where the group is planning to get its programmes from, saying only that it had "the best sources in the UK and U.S." Its investment plans are also still subject to confidentiality agreements, although the group says they will be "obviously substantial."
If the BSkyB camp is successful in winning the licenses, the shareholders have agreed to meet between them a peak funding requirement of up to 300 million pounds ($481 million). The company is expected to be profitable within five years.
The BSkyB/Carlton/Granada/BBC venture plans three premium subscription channels showing top Hollywood movies and sports. Another 12 channels will be offered as part of a basic subscription package.
Scottish Amicable's plans to float on the stock market were under threat on Friday after Abbey National launched a surprise bid for the mutually-owned life assurance company.
The offer from the retail banking group values ScotAm at up to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.25 billion) and includes an immediate minimum payout of 400 million pounds to policyholders in cash or Abbey shares.
ScotAm was quick to denounce the bid as both "vague" and "inadequate" and said it intended to press ahead with its two stage plans to drop its mutual status and float the group over the next three to five years.
Those proposals, due to be detailed in a circular within the next two weeks, have themselves been criticised for not being generous enough to policyholders while offering the prospect of a windfall to management if growth targets are met.
Under the plans the 1.1 million policyholders will receive up to 1,500 pounds while 12 ScotAm directors stand to share around 14 million pounds.
The offer from the Abbey raises the possibility of a bidding war for ScotAm, which has made no secret of past approaches.
ScotAm chairman Sandy Stewart said that indications of interest from other parties had already been received.
"As you would expect there have been quite a number of telephone calls (from other interested parties) but there have been no firm approaches," Stewart told Reuters.
"I suspect some of them are competitors of Abbey National".
Stewart said Abbey National's offer had not been dismissed out of hand and that the interests of policyholders were uppermost in the management's mind.
"If we have on the table a firm offer which is quite clearly likely to be more beneficial to policyholders then we have to consider it. If we decide that is the case then we will put it to policyholders," Stewart said.
"At this stage the bid doesn't meet our requirements. It's vague and on the basis of what it (Abbey National) has said it appears to be inadequate."
Analysts agreed the two businesses would fit well together and that the Abbey, with its good cash generation ability, would have no problem financing the deal.
BZW analyst Hugh Pye upgraded its recommendation on Abbey National shares on the potential offered by the deal, which he said would improve the quality of the group's earnings and return on equity.
By early afternoon the shares were trading 6-1/2 pence higher on the day at 775-1/2 pence.
Despite the rejection by Scottish Amicable, the Abbey, Britain's fifth largest bank, said it was still hoping to persuade ScotAm, which has 14 billion pounds under management, to accept the offer and put it to its policyholders.
"We believe this offer will by very attractive to Scottish Amicable policyholders, providing them with immediate value and the long-term security of being part of one of the UK's strongest financial groups," Abbey chief executive Peter Birch said in a statement.
No discussions have been held between the two groups and ScotAm said it had no intention of talking to the Abbey ahead of the release of details on its demutualisation. ($1=.6237 Pound)
Mutually-owned life assurance company Scottish Amicable on Friday rebuffed a takeover bid worth up to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) from British retail banking group Abbey National Plc.
Scottish Amicable said it would pursue its own plan, announced earlier this month, to shed its mutual status and seek a stock market flotation in three to five years time.
"We believe this offer will by very attractive to Scottish Amicable policyholders, providing them with immediate value and the long-term security of being part of one of the UK's strongest financial groups," Abbey National chief executive Peter Birch said in a statement.
The Abbey offer, which surprised the market and sent its shares up 6.5 pence to 775.5, includes a minimum of 400 million pounds to policyholders in cash or Abbey shares and an immediate investment into the funds of 1.1 million with-profit policyholders of between 700 million to one billion pounds.
Despite the rejection by Scottish Amicable, the Abbey, Britain's fifth largest bank, said it was still hoping to persuade the life assurer, which has 14 billion pounds under management, to accept the offer and put it to its policy holders.
"We feel that we can offer something much more attractive to the Scottish Amicable policy holders," Abbey deputy chief executive Charles Toner told Reuters. "That's why we really want to talk to Scottish Amicable and we hope still to persuade them to put this more attractive deal to their policy holders."
Toner said that the ScotAm board had not yet had time to stand back and examine the proposals properly.
"They've been working on their scheme for some time and they probably can't consider anything else in their minds," he added. "In truth, they don't seem to want to discuss it at the moment but we hope that they will. It's early days, there's plenty of time for them to draw breath and talk to us."
The second element of the offer would see Abbey National invest between 700 million and one billion pounds into the with-profits fund, where the policyholder is entitled to a share of the profits from the growth of the fund.
Scottish Amicable said the approach from Abbey was vague and it was unclear how it was valuing the group. The insurer, based in Stirling, Scotland, said it intends to publish in 10 days time detailed proposals about a twin-phased transformation, involving losing its mutual status on May 1 and a 1.0 billion pound flotation in three to five years time.
"The start of a growth phase is the wrong time in the cycle for policyholders to put their businesss on the market," said Sandy Stewart, chairman of Scottish Amicable.
Later, a spokesman for Scottish Amicable's advisers said there was a "grave danger of policy holders being misled by the vague terms of Abbey National's pronouncements. They have misunderstood Scottish Amicable's proposals."
The spokesman said the benefits to policy holders of the flotation proposal had been conservatively stated and the actual value would be considerably higher.
Abbey's Toner said the Scottish Amicable business would be an excellent fit for its Scottish Mutual business which it bought in 1992. It has 8.0 billion pounds under management and sells its products through the independent financial adviser (IFA) network.
"We started quite cautiously with Scottish Mutual but now it's growing very strongly under our management but as the whole life sector continues to consolidate, we do think it would be good, with the right partner, to link Scottish Mutual with something else," he added.
Analysts agreed that the businesses would be a good fit and John Leonard of Salomon Brothers said the Abbey would have no problem financing the bid with its good cash generation ability. ($1=.6172 Pound)
Japan's big securities houses have come to accept that deregulating commissions on stock transactions is essential if they are to keep their major customers, industry sources say.
"Many Japanese brokers oppose liberalisation, but it is unavoidable if they want to keep the status of the Tokyo stock market from falling," one industry source said.
The sources cited an increase in "black-eyed" foreigners -- Japanese who buy Japanese stocks through brokers overseas to avoid higher commissions charged by domestic brokers.
However, the sources also said deregulation should be done gradually so as not to jeopardise small brokerages depending on commissions for most of their revenue.
"Big Four brokers will be able to withstand the impact of liberalisation, but smaller brokers will not," the source said.
Japan's "Big Four" -- Nomura Securities, Daiwa Securities, Nikko Securities and Yamaichi Securities -- are preparing for the liberalisation of broking fees as they fear they will lose customers, who are becoming more aware that it is cheaper to place orders abroad for Japanese stocks than it is in Japan, the sources said.
Japanese brokers charge 535,000 yen ($4,908) for buying or selling a contract worth 500 million yen ($4.58 million), the sources said, while fees overseas would be less than half that.
The Big Four depended on commissions for about 30 percent of their revenue in the fiscal year to March 31, 1995.
But commissions accounted for more than 70 percent of revenues for many of Japan's 230 smaller brokerages, they said.
Earlier this year, the Pension Welfare Service Public Corp (Nenpuku), which manages about 23 trillion yen ($211 billion) in public pension funds, commissioned investment advisory companies to manage its funds.
"Those investment advisory companies set up so-called limited partnerships abroad and placed orders in London," said another industry source.
"By trading in the over-the-counter market in London, they saved money as stockbroking fees there are cheap and there is no securities transaction tax."
This triggered interest from other institutional investors, the sources said.
While no statistics are available, purchases by the so-called black-eyed investors had recently inflated figures for purchases of Japanese stocks by foreigners, they said.
Atsushi Nagano, director-general of the Japanese Finance Ministry's Securities Bureau, told Reuters the ministry was aware of the situation.
"Watching such cases, I feel like there is something wrong in the Tokyo market," he said.
When Japan liberalised broking fees for contracts of more than 1 billion yen ($9.1 million) in April 1994, the Finance Ministry said it would consider deregulating fees on smaller lots of stocks after seeing the impact of that liberalisation.
Industry sources said further deregulation would be one of the main topics at a special committee of the Securities and Exchange Council -- an advisory panel to the Finance Minister -- which is supposed to present proposals on how to reform Tokyo's securities market next June.
The second source said that even though no time frame had been set for the complete liberalisation of commissions, abolishing the securities transaction tax would help boost the Tokyo exchange.
Japan lowered the tax to 0.21 percent of the value of a sale from 0.3 percent, except for sales by securities houses, on April 1.
Broking fees were liberalised in New York in 1975 and in London in 1986. ($1=109)
A furry hedgehog, idyllic sunsets and the meaner streets of Budapest seem unlikely moneyspinners, but such images are crowding Canada's airwaves as the annual mutual fund season kicks into gear.
Armed with high-powered ad campaigns, eager fund sellers are vying for the billions of dollars Canadians will pour into registered retirement savings plans (RRSPs).
With interest rates at 40-year lows and stocks at stratospheric heights, investors are expected to shun interest-bearing investments for higher yielding mutual funds before the March 1 deadline for RRSP contributions.
"We're in the thick of it right now and it's going to get busier and busier toward the end of the (RRSP) season," said John Wiltshire, vice-president of marketing for Investors Group, Canada's top fund company with C$25 billion ($18 billion) in assets.
TAX BENEFIT IS A DRAW
Canada introduced RRSPs in the late 1950s to allow people without registered pension plans to save for retirement. Investors can deduct the amount from their taxes for the previous year's income.
Besides being a tax benefit, RRSPs have become more popular as traditional pension benefits are scaled back.
Canadians have more than C$211 billion ($156 billion) stashed in mutual funds, an eight-fold increase from 1990. An estimated C$23 billion ($17 billion) will be added to the pot this year.
Fund companies also expect a big chunk of the C$250 billion ($186 billion) currently invested in guaranteed investment certificates and term deposits to shift into funds.
In what has become an annual rite of the Canadian winter, fund sellers flood the airwaves with promotions, hype and gimmicks to lure RRSP dollars. But, unlike the United States, Canadian broadcast rules prohibit companies from making performance claims on television or radio.
"That's why you get fuzzy advertising. They talk about lifestyle and emphasise branding," said John Kaszel, director of research for Investment Funds Institute of Canada, a lobby group representing 40 fund companies.
Soft-sell ads feature happy people in tranquil settings with simple messages such as "We're here to get you there," or "quietly creating wealth."
NEXT GENERATION THE TARGET
Some firms are targeting the next generation of investors. GT Global, a member of Liechtenstein Global Trust, launched a Kid's Kit in December to teach youngsters about mutual funds.
When a parent opens a minimum C$500 ($370) account, his child gets a stuffed "Henry the Hedgehog" toy, a certificate and a colourful book explaining "Henry's Mysterious Gift."
"This is a chance to give a gift to your kids that is tangible and gets them into the habit of investing," said CT Global President Joe Canavan.
Other ads feature smartly tailored people using words such as "discipline" and "performance" to trumpet their firm's investment strategy.
Spectrum United Mutual Funds' gritty commercials highlight its team of tough global fund managers, including one who scored a big success investing in a Budapest security company.
To add levity to the RRSP season, Bank of Montreal's campaign pricked the balloons of so-called "experts", but there was little information on the bank's own funds.
Critics complain that Canada's advertising rules insult investors' intelligence.
"Mutual fund regulators are convinced that mutual fund investors are ignorant dolts who need to be protected from themselves and the industry. The result, as far as radio and television are concerned, is a multimillion dollar river of non-information," Toronto Globe and Mail columnist Terence Corcoran wrote recently.
SCANDALS MAY MEAN TIGHTER CONTROLS
But regulators are unlikely to relax their grip on the industry. In fact, the rules could tighten after recent scandals such as the Veronika Hirsch affair.
Hirsch was a star stock picker hired last summer to spearhead Boston-based Fidelity Investments' drive to dominate the Canadian market. But she was removed from her portfolio in November amid a controversy over personal trades she made before joining the world's biggest mutual fund company.
Fidelity also offered clients their money back without penalty. "We were pleased that the number of people who did take advantage of it was less than our expectation," said spokesman Chethan Lakshman, but he did not give any numbers.
Hirsch's True North Equity Fund is now under a less flamboyant manager and has accumulated C$211 million ($156 million) in assets since its launch last September.
Hirsch's status was under discussion, Lakshman said, but a separation package was rumoured to be under negotiation.
FALLOUT PROMPTS GUIDELINES REVIEW
The fallout from the Hirsch affair prompted a review of the industry's guidlines for fund managers. "It has opened up some concerns, but those are being addressed. Now we are seeing whether more should be done," Kaszel said.
While analysts said it was difficult to assess the damage to the industry's credibility, the Hirsch affair changed how companies sell their product.
Brash campaigns built around high-profile stock pickers are out and the "team" is in, analysts said.
Canada's Big Six banks are also heavy advertisers this year as they strive to become bigger players in a industry dominated by independents.
Three banks are now among the top 10 firms, with Royal Bank of Canada number three behind Investors Group amd Trimark Investment Management Inc.
The banks were allowed to enter the mutual fund business in 1987 and now account for 29 percent of the industry's assets. Fund management fees have helped propel bank profits to record highs in recent years.
A small securities house has cracked open Japan's highly regulated stockbroking commission system in a move which industry sources say should accelerate plans to deregulate the stock market.
Matsui Securities Co Ltd said on Friday it would cut its brokerage fees for stocks and convertible bonds traded over the counter by half, starting from March.
It is the first time a broker has said it will deviate from the norm in setting its fees.
Brokerage commissions for stocks listed on Japanese stock exchanges are fixed under the Securities and Exchange Act, while fees for over-the-counter trade can be set within a range fixed by the Japan Securities Dealers' Association.
But brokers have so far charged uniform fees on stocks traded over the counter, the sources said.
After Matsui's announcement, Paribas Capital Markets Ltd said it had cut its brokerage fees for stocks traded on Japan's over-the-counter market by half, effective from Friday.
Matsui said other companies in the industry had tried to pressure it into not making the change.
"Some of them tried to criticise and pressure us, but we decided to help revitalise the market by taking the steps as long as they meet the rules," a Matsui statement said.
An executive at a medium-sized Japanese broker said: "Matsui's decision will accelerate the liberalisation of stockbroking fees."
He added that both big and small brokers would have to decide by March whether to follow Matsui's example or possibly lose business to it, he said.
But Ichiyoshi Securities Co Ltd, a medium-sized broker with a strong customer base in the OTC market, said it would not cut its fees for now.
"Our strategy is to earn commissions by offering something value-added... We plan to differentiate our service by offering better information," an Ichiyoshi spokesman told Reuters.
An advisory panel to the Finance Ministry is currently discussing how stockbroking fees should be deregulated and is due to make a final proposal by June.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto unveiled in November a five-year plan for "Big Bang" reforms to liberalise Japan's financial markets and catch up with reforms carried out more than a decade ago in Europe and North America.
They include liberalising the stock commission system.
An official at a "Big Four" broker said the liberalisation was likely to take place sooner than the industry expected.
"As for stockbroking commissions, the liberalisation may come all at one time, rather than by gradual implementation," he said.
Industry sources said that without the deregulation, Japanese institutional investors would go abroad, where it costs less to place orders for Japanese stocks.
The Tokyo stock market's recent falls offer a preview of the pain Japan's life insurance industry will face as a result of greater competition from planned "Big Bang" financial reforms, industry sources say.
The fall in share prices means some of the insurance companies may have to post losses in the business year to March 31, increasing an already wide gap in financial strength between big and small firms, the sources said.
But the real threat is expected intense competition from other financial sectors such as banking after the Big Bang.
"The Big Bang is the real threat, as it means fierce competition among all financial sectors, including banks and Western asset management firms," said an executive at a major life insurance firm.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto unveiled plans in November to liberalise Japan's financial markets by 2001 under the Big Bang reforms, in which banks, brokers and insurance companies will be allowed to enter each other's turf.
In the past, Japan's life insurance industry enjoyed spectacular growth as the nation's economic success enabled people to plan for the long-term financial security of their families, analysts said.
But with the maturing of the core life insurance product market, big insurers are focusing on asset management.
The life insurers are already facing increased competition after a revision to the law governing them allowed 11 non-life insurers to set up life insurance subsidiaries last October, raising to 44 the number of life insurers in Japan.
A spokesman for Sony Life Insurance, a subsidiary of Sony Corp, said there were also concerns about how far the big commercial banks would be permitted to enter the insurance business under the Big Bang reforms.
Koya Hasegawa, an analyst at Nikko Research Center, said the life insurance industry needed to increase its efficiency, particularly to fight off a challenge from the banks.
The reforms are expected to allow over-the-counter sales of insurance policies by banks, he said.
But even before that, some life insurers are in for a tough time. "If stocks remain under pressure until the end of the current business year they will see unrealised profits on their shareholdings wiped out, forcing them to post losses," Nikko Research's Hasegawa said.
Falling stock prices reduce their unrealised profits on shareholdings. These unrealised profits are a source of funds to cover sudden losses and write-offs of problem loans and make up for negative spreads between low investment yields and already promised payouts.
The payouts are calculated based on prospective investment yields at the time insurance policies were written.
If the Nikkei average of 225 leading shares is around 19,000 on March 31, when the companies close their books for 1996/97, unrealised profits on shareholdings at three life insurers -- Toho Mutual Life, Nissan Mutual Life and Kyoei Life -- will be wiped out, the sources said.
A Nikkei fall to 18,000 would make the unrealised profits at Tokyo Mutual Life, Nippon Dantai Life and Daihyaku Mutual Life disappear, while the crucial level is 17,000 for Sumitomo Life and Chiyoda Mutual Life, they said.
On Thursday, the Nikkei closed down 471.26 points at 17,864.04. But on Friday morning the index bounced back, rising 570.68 points by midday.
Chiyoda, Nissan, Kyoei, Tokyo, Nippon Dantai, and Daihyaku all posted before-tax current losses in the year to March 31, 1995. Toho also did so, for the second straight year.
Plans are being drawn up for new peace talks between the government and leftist rebels in a bid to end Latin America's longest-running conflict, a spokesman for Colombia's Conciliation Commission said on Sunday.
Diego Vargas Uribe, a member of the semi-autonomous body of former ministers and Church representatives, said details would not be released for a few more weeks, but that all sides in the four-decade old war had been consulted about talks.
"The Conciliation Commission has carried out a consultation with different sectors about the basis for a negotiated peace. We are drawing up a document and will present that to the government and the armed groups before making it public," Uribe told Radionet radio network.
Political analysts warn that the prospect of peace is slight. The armed forces said two weeks ago they would step up their counterinsurgency campaign and Marxist rebels have escalated their attacks this year.
Spokesmen for the FARC, Colombia's largest guerrilla army set up as a pro-Soviet group in 1964, were not available for comment on Sunday. But in the latest copy of their magazine Resistencia, FARC leader Manuel Marulanda wrote: "I reiterate the will that the (FARC) has always expressed to find a political solution to the social and armed conflict."
He stressed any peace deal would have to resolve "political, social and economic inequalities" and not simply map out a timetable for the demobilization of rebel forces.
The National Liberation Army (ELN), the second largest rebel force founded by radical Roman Catholic priests in the mid-1960s, began tentative moves last year toward German governmment-brokered peace talks with President Ernesto Samper's administration.
Efforts broke down in November with the much-publicised arrest of Werner Mauss, a German private eye who was acting as a go-between in the talks.
The last peace process between the Colombian government and rebels collapsed without agreement in Mexico in 1992. The FARC accused the authorities of trying to force the guerrillas to surrender unilaterally.
Unlike Colombia's M-19 rebel group, which laid down its arms in the late 1980s, neither the FARC nor the ELN have been defeated militarily.
The FARC still holds prisoner 60 troops it captured in southern Colombia last August. In a statement on Sunday, the FARC confirmed it was holding 10 marines seized in an ambush in western Choco province in mid-January. It said the men would be held with the other 60 soldiers until terms for a handover were agreed with the government.
Abbey National on Monday called for Scottish Amicable to put on hold proposals to drop its mutual status and allow policyholders time to consider last week's offer for the life assurance group.
But ScotAm were quick to reject the demand together with renewed requests by Abbey for access to its books.
ScotAm said it had no intention of altering its plans and would proceed according to its own timetable and not one dictated by Abbey.
"They're asking for privileged access to information before policyholders," said a ScotAm spokesman.
"The policyholders have to get that information, see the detail of what we're offering and at that time Abbey can make a proper judgement of its offer."
The details of ScotAm's demutualisation and flotation plans are due to be published at the beginning of next week.
Until then an impasse looks likely with ScotAm refusing to discuss Abbey's approach and Abbey prevented from seeing more detailed financial information it says it needs.
It argues that policyholders should have the opportunity to compare ScotAm's plans with alternative offers based on the same information.
"Ours is a firm offer based on published information and it is a minimum offer. If we had the information they have, we'd be on the same level playing field," said an Abbey spokesman.
"The policyholders should be given the chance to vote on the best deal on the table. If Scottish know there's a firm offer from us - and there may be other interested parties - they should consider all of these and put them to policyholders at one go."
Many industry observers expect the move by Abbey which already owns Glasgow-based Scottish Mutual, to prompt an auction for ScotAm with interest anticipated from both Britain and overseas.
Insurance group Prudential has said it was "watching the situation with interest" and has made no secret that it is on the lookout for an acquisition in the life assuarnce sector.
Britain's Halifax building society, high street banking group National Westminster, Fortis, the Dutch-Belgian financial services company, and Dutch firm ING Groep have all declined to comment on reports they might throw their hats in the ring.
No talks have been held with any other parties and according to the ScotAm, none are planned ahead of the publication of its proposals. For the time being at least, the company remains dismissive of Abbey's approach.
It has repeatedly attacked what it describes as the "vagueness" of Abbey's offer - a minimum of 400 million pounds ($641 million) and between 700 million and one billion pounds for the embedded value of the with-profits fund.
But the company was keen to stress that the interests of policyholders remained the most important consideration and if a suitable offer emerged it would be put to policyholders.
"The kite being flown by Abbey has all the superficial attractions of an upfront cash offer to policyholders without any assurance of the long term welfare of policies," ScotAm chairman Sandy Stewart told Reuters.
"Abbey has said more to the press than it has put in writing to the board and that should alert policyholders that it's time for very careful reflection."
While ScotAm may be irked at what it sees as the way Abbey has conducted its bid through the press, Abbey contend it is the only way it can get its message across to policyholders. ($1=.6237 Pound)
French chocolate manufacturer Cantalou will sign a deal by 1998 on building a cocoa processing plant in Ivory Coast, a Cantalou official said on Monday.
"There will be a signature by the end of this year," public relations manager Catherine Poirier told Reuters by telephone.
Cantalou said investment plans had not been finalised despite recent reports that the Perpignan-based manufacturer of "Cemoi" brands was going ahead with plans.
But Poirier added that plans were solid and very likely to be confirmed in coming months.
Speculation about new market entrants had already risen following a decision by Cargill to open an office in Abidjan in late 1996 to explore processing and other options.
Cargill's new Ivory Coast-based representative has already begun negotiations on setting up a processing plant with decisions expected from March, industry sources close to the discussions told Reuters recently.
Talk of new entrants to Ivory Coast's expanding local processing industry intensified in December after an official visit to Ivory Coast by Cantalou representatives in late 1996. Officials from Cantalou, which has European turnover of 2.9 billion French francs and owns 15 other plants, discussed setting up a 160 million French franc cocoa processing plant.
Cantalou's plans for a 60,000 tonne per year capacity processing plant resurfaced last week in the French business daily La Tribune Defosses but Poirier, quoted in the report, told Reuters plans had still not been finalised.
Other aspiring processors are also still in discussion stages.
Ivorian exporter SICC in December outlined to Reuters its own plans for processing up to 50,000 tonnes a year of cocoa. Plans for a $2 million investment were expected to be finalised in early 1997 after talks with potential partners.
SICC, which also has shipping plans, expects to handle a total of 200,000 tonnes of cocoa exports in 1996/97 for clients including Cargill's Netherlands processing subsidiary Gherkens.
Other firms are also said to be in discussions about starting processing. More are waiting on the sidelines.
"We badly want to get into processing," a manager for British development firm Commonwealth Development Corp told Reuters last week.
Cocoa processing in Ivory Coast is dominated by Abidjan-based processor UNICAO and rival Callebaut-Barry. Factory bean processing capacity stands at 180,000 tonnes but Ivory Coast aims to add more value to exports by raising this to 50 percent of annual output - which varies widely each year.
Local industry sources had expected Cargill or Dutch group Cacao De Zaan to buy into UNICAO in December. But minority 30 percent shareholder U.S-based W.R. Grace then sold its stake in UNICAO's parent, SIFCA, to rival Archer Daniels Midland (ADM).
A UNICAO spokesman said plans to add 21,500 tonnes of processing capacity to take production potential to 86,000 tonnes by late 1997 were unchanged by the deal.
"They (ADM) have still not visited companies with a shareholding (in UNICAO)," UNICAO factory production director Kanga N'Ze told Reuters on Monday. "There has been no contact."
UNICAO's only main rival Callebaut-Barry has three plants grinding up to 80,000 tonnes of beans a year.
Ivory Coast posted a record 1.2 million tonne crop in 1995/96 but has forecast closer to a million tonnes for 1996/97. It expects cheaper energy from offshore gas to encourage investment in cocoa processing but critics have said investors are more interested in winning short-term government incentives gains than long-term commitment.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
President Clinton and Congress are again set to look to airwave sales to cut the deficit, although analysts note the radio spectrum is not a bottomless money pit and prices should fall as more space is sold.
"They need to be careful that they're not killing the golden goose," said Joe Boyer of Hatfield Associates Inc., a Boulder, Colo. telecommunications consulting firm.
"The issue may be whether the federal government creates a glut of spectrum available," said Boyer, noting that such an oversupply would force down prices -- and thus the amount of money the government could fetch through auctions.
Auctions for the rights to use the airwaves have been a cash bonanza for Uncle Sam. Since the summer of 1994, the Federal Communications Commission has raised about $23 billion for the government through 12 spectrum auctions.
The FCC has sold licenses for a new generation of cellular phones known as "personal communications services," or PCS, satellite TV, "wireless" cable TV and other services.
"It's been the most valuable asset the government has had to sell in decades," said budget analyst Stan Collender of Burson-Marsteller.
The president is set to unveil his fiscal 1998 budget on Feb. 6 for the year that begins next Oct. 1. White House officials have told lawmakers to expect spectrum auctions to be a part of the plan, though details are unclear.
For fiscal 1997, Clinton proposed, among other things, to auction in 2002 the "analog" spectrum TV broadcasters would return to the government in the transition to high-definition digital TV. The sale was projected to raise $17 billion.
But more sales could well mean lower prices.
The Congressional Budget Office last year predicted the price of valuable spectrum under 3 GHz -- airwaves that can be used for PCS, digital TV, paging, and other services -- will fall "as more spectrum is brought to market."
Already, there are signs of softer prices. A PCS auction that ended last month netted $2.5 billion, down 75 percent from a similar auction last May that raised $10.2 billion.
The average license price tumbled more than 90 percent.
Analysts were quick to note that smaller airwave parcels were auctioned at the latest sale and that financing terms extended by the government were not as attractive.
But they also said the drop reflected the dearth of new money available after the sky-high prices paid at last year's PCS sale and the flood of new entrants to the market.
"If everybody builds out the spectrum that has been acquired in the PCS auctions, there would be more than enough capacity for every man, woman, and child and every household pet in the United States," said Boyer.
While more sales could mean lower proceeds, many analysts argue that more auctions also would usher in more competitors to the market -- and thus drive down prices of cellular phone service, pagers, Internet access and other services.
"The first thing you have to think about is 'What's good for getting communications services to the public?'" said Charles Jackson, of Strategic Policy Research, a consulting firm in Bethesda, Md. "Only after you've solved that problem do you worry about auction revenues."
Experts said plenty of spectrum is available to auction. "There's a lot more spectrum out there," said James Gatusso of Citizens for a Sound Economy, a free-market advocacy group.
"There's much, much more that can be done," he said.
The U.S. communications revolution is off to a slow start, unleashing more hype than competition among local and long-distance carriers, cable-TV firms, utilities and others.
But experts say that, just one year after passage of the huge telecommunication reform bill, it is too early to judge it a failure. Most predict the current "phoney war" ultimately will be followed by heated competition, new services and lower prices in communications.
But it will take time, possibly five years or more.
"This is on track to be the kind of event that will change our economy and our society," said industry analyst Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom Associates in Atlanta.
"Expecting there to be significant change in the first year is bordering on ridiculous," Kagan said.
Scott Cleland of Schwab Washington Research Group agreed: "The timetable people had for this bill was overly ambitious."
The Telecommunications Act of 1996, enacted on February 8, ripped down 62-year-old legal barriers and encouraged local and long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators, electric utilities and others to invade each other's backyards.
Lawmakers, analysts and industry officials held out the prospect of one-stop shopping, enabling technology junkies to dial local and long-distance calls, hook up to the Internet, and speak over wireless phones via the same company.
But that has yet to materialise in a big way and prices are up. Experts attribute the slow start to several factors.
The law's timetable stretches out as long as 15 months. Consequently, key rules designed to help break open the $100 billion local phone market to new competitors have yet to be finalised by the Federal Communications Commission.
A U.S. appeals court in St. Louis has suspended the market-opening rules already set by the FCC. And carriers are going to court over key decisions by state regulators.
Moreover, industry officials say it takes time to get new technology, packaging and billing procedures in place.
"It takes time to design a system, get the components ordered and assembled, hire the people and train them," said NYNEX Corp Executive Vice President Tom Tauke.
The law's critics have plenty to gripe about.
Prices for long-distance service were expected to fall, and the phone, cable-TV, utility, broadcast and computer industries were expected to scramble to bring entertainment, news, information and calling services to homes and offices.
PROMISED COMPETITION IS BARELY SEEN, MANY PRICES RISE
But a year later, the local phone market remains a monopoly run by the Baby Bells and other local carriers. So far, they have been successful in court fighting FCC rules.
The $78 billion long-distance market remains dominated by AT&amp;T Corp., MCI Communications Corp. and Sprint Corp.. However, Ameritech Corp. has asked for FCC approval to offer long-distance service from its local-calling region.
Big cable-TV operators such as Time Warner Inc. and Tele-Communications Inc. have watered down plans to offer phone service and are instead defending their own turf. Phone companies have trimmed plans for cable-TV.
Prices for communications services, instead of falling, are rising. Cable-TV rates jumped 7.8 percent last year, more than double the 3.3 percent rise in consumer prices. Residential interstate long-distance rates rose 3.7 percent, while intrastate long-distance rates jumped 6.1 percent.
"My reasons for voting against the bill were valid. And I'm very sorry, because it's the American citizen who is paying more for these services rather than less," Sen. John McCain, chairman of the commerce committee, told Reuters.
The Arizona Republican is planning hearings on the telecom industry but will not push any major bills this year.
A string of mergers among the seven Bells, meanwhile, has narrowed the number of potential competitors in the phone business, with Bell Atlantic Corp. acquiring NYNEX and SBC Communications Inc. buying Pacific Telesis Group.
Outside the Bells, No. 4 long-distance carrier WorldCom Inc. is buying MFS Communications Co., a supplier of local phone to businesses. And British Telecommunications Plc plans to buy the No. 2 U.S. long-distance carrier, MCI.
"The forces of evil are running well ahead of the forces of good," says the Consumer Federation of America's Mark Cooper. "Price increases and market concentration are keeping apace .... Nothing good happened this year for competition."
BILL'S SUPPORTERS COUNSEL PATIENCE
But the bill's supporters counsel patience.
"I don't think you can stop it now. The competition genie is out of the bag," Representative Billy Tauzin, a Louisiana Republican who chairs the telecommunications subcommittee, said.
Industry officials admit they underestimated the task -- both the cost and complexity of new technologies to allow competition to proceed.
Companies will have to overcome such hurdles when bundling together services -- such as local, long-distance and wireless phone services -- into one package for customers.
And there are other complexities: long-distance carriers will have to lease space on their lines to local carriers wanting to offer long-distance service; alternatively, local carriers will have to lease their networks to long-distance carriers seeking to break into the local phone business.
"Getting systems in place on every side is a tough thing to do," said Randy New, a BellSouth Corp. vice-president.
Analaysts and industry officials also say that the FCC must still resolve key issues before local competition can truly come to the local phone market -- namely, how to finance and ensure affordable phone service for all Americans and how to cut the $20 billion in "access charges" long-distance carriers pay local phone companies to link to their networks.
FCC Chairman Hundt says the courts, regulators and lawmakers must resist industry efforts to stifle competition.
"For the next two years, everybody is going to beat us up to maintain the status quo," he told Reuters. "We should be very optimistic as long as we stay the course."
With the World Bank forecasting a 20-percent increase in Asian energy demand each year for the next decade, one could be forgiven for viewing the entire Asian power stock sector as a good bet.
Wrong.
Uncertainty in the form of rapid change looms over one of Asia's most important equity sectors, making short-term value hard to find, analysts say.
Just some of the wild cards include the privatisation of state utilities, a plethora of new, independent power producers (IPPs) and a diverse and government-controlled tariff structure.
"There is an escalation of the risk/reward ratio of power investments, given the massive changes the industry is undergoing," said BZW Asia Research analyst Thomas Chesser.
"A number of project-specific, speculative issues are turning once predictable, stable and defensive power investments into high-risk, high-reward plays."
STOCK SELECTION CRITICAL
Longer-term, many Asian power companies are bound to offer strong returns with estimated demand requiring 2,000 megawatts more capacity each month for a decade, implying annual investment of more than US$35 billion.
But all analysts agree stock selection will be critical to avoid a variety of short-term hazards.
In the past, Asian power stocks tended to track regional markets, but over the next few years up to 40 percent of all new generating assets will be derived from IPPs, creating much greater divergence in share price performance.
Valuations will also come under pressure from a flood of new equity. Within the next two years, the  Electric Authority of Thailand (EGAT) and  National Power Corp in the Philippines are both due for privatization, with another three privatisations in the next four years.
The privatisations will join a slew of new equity from the US$5.5 billion Bakun hydroelectric dam project, YTL Corp Bhd and  Port Dickson Power in Malaysia,  Beijing Datang Power Generation Co and Huaneng Power International in China and Korea Electric Power Corp (KEPCO) in South Korea. In total, a flood of about US$2.5 billion in new paper will hit Asian markets this year.
"While increasing the alternatives available to investors, it is probable that new supply will reduce premiums accorded to already-listed companies," Goldman Sachs analyst Hilary Judis wrote in a recent research report.
HIGH PREMIUM STOCKS SET TO FALL
Valuations are also expected to rationalise following Southern Electric's US$2.7 billion acquisition of Consolidated Electric Power Asia Ltd (CEPA) last October.
The deal's premium of 15-percent to net present value provides a new international benchmark that could speed up an evening-out of domestic stock valuations. Many stocks trading at high premiums can expect to fall sharply.
"What CEPA has done is call attention to market transactions. A lot of people will view it as a benchmark for value against domestic valuations," Chesser said.
"It's only been three or four months so we haven't seen the trickledown come through yet, but some of the dearer IPPs will see the premiums come down. This is not just intuition but based on a survey of fund managers," he added.
KEPCO GETS BUY RECOMMENDATION
While analysts all commend careful stock-picking as the only safe route through this maze, their recommendations vary widely -- with one notable exception: KEPCO enjoys a buy recommendation from virtually every Asian analyst.
As the sole government-owned and operated utility in South Korea, KEPCO enjoys a virtual monopoly on electricity generation and transmission in South Korea, accounting for 95 percent of all electricity generation last year.
The stock, with a 12-percent weighting on the Seoul stock market, fell in line with the broad sell-off in South Korean shares in the second half last year before making a breathtaking recovery this month.
Despite expectations of weak 1996 earnings from higher fuel prices and a punishing foreign exchange rate, KEPCO is now trading at about 27,000 won against a 12-month low of 23,800.
Analysts said the stock appears to have priced in expectations of a 28-percent decline in 1996 earnings and now is trading in anticipation of a much better year in 1997, aided by a tariff increase and improved fuel prices.
"Although any further depreciation in the won will likely not be helpful to KEPCO we expect the decline in oil prices to more than compensate," said Caroline Rogers at Merrill Lynch.
CHINA'S HNP FAVOURED, EXPANDING
China's Huaneng Power International (HNP) is also favoured by most analysts, but it does not enjoy KEPCO's universal popularity.
Merrill Lynch said HNP, with the highest valuation among the four Chinese power companies, is known for its strong relationships -- always important in Asia -- and a quality management led by Li Xiaopeng, the son of China's premier Li Peng. Li senior runs the State Council, overseeing capital expenditure and tariff increases.
HNP is expanding its existing four power plants to 6,200 megawatts over the next five years from 1,900 megawatts now, boosting annual earnings growth by a projected 24 percent.
Most analysts also like Hong Kong and China Gas for its stable earnings growth, China exposure and property investments. But Hong Kong Electric and China Light and Power received a mixed response thanks an uncertain regulatory environment, unstable earnings outlook and problems with overcapacity.
Manila Electric Co in the Philippines is also popular as a monopoly with good exposure to an accelerating economy. But some analysts warn the stock's valuation, formerly justified by strong profit growth and positioning, will have to change to reflect no more tariff increases until the year 2000.
And while some expect Meralco to benefit from the privatisation of National Power Corporation, which is run by many ex-Meralco personnel, others see increased investor choice eroding Meralco's share premium.
Analysts are neutral to negative on Malaysia's Tenaga Nasional Bihad, which faces a loss of its monopoly on transmission and distribution, uncertainty surrounding any tariff increases, and the possibility that the government will demand that the company provide a rebate to customers damaged by a recent blackout.
The head of America's most popular cable television service said on Tuesday that Latin American television will continue booming into the 21st century and that pan-regional advertising would shoot up to $1 billion within a decade.
Kay Koplovitz, chief executive of U.S.A. Networks, told an industry conference that cross-boarder advertising on Latin American cable television and Direct-to-Home (DTH) was about $50 million to $75 million in 1996 but was poised for spectacular growth as new DTH services penetrate Latin America's 80 million television households.  
"I really believe it will reach $1 billion in the next decade," Koplovitz said.
Audiences for cable and DTH in Latin American were affluent and younger than those in North America, characteristics that should appeal to advertisers.
"This audience is younger and vibrant for consumer goods," she said.  
Some industry analysts and executives have questioned the appeal of pan-regional programming and advertising in Latin America saying Argentine and Mexican and other national audiences have varying taste and a much more pronounced hunger for local programming.
Koplovitz likened the state of multiple-channel television in Latin America to the early days of U.S. cable television in the 1970s, when advertisers shunned the new medium because audience measurements were crude or nonexistent.  
"We need a reliable, standardized amd pan-regional measuring system," she told an audience of entertainment industry executives at a conference sponsored by the Variety trade newspaper.
She also predicted that the governmental restrictions on DTH in some countries would melt away before the force of illegal satellite-dish sales and as taxing authorities realized that growing revenues streams were going untapped.  
According to Kagan Associates, a consulting group, cable television and DTH revenues in Latin America will grow to $8.1 billion by 2001. Industry revenues were about $2.5 billion last year in Latin America.
Kagan has also estimated that only a bit more than 13 percent of Latin America's television homes subscribe to some form of multiple-channel television. By contrast, multiple-channel television penetration in the United States is more than 60 percent.  
"Latin America is one of the fastest growing and underdeveloped TV markets in the world," Koplovitz said.
The expansion of DTH services by big international media ventures will be key in expanding pan-regional advertising, she said.  
One Latin American DTH service, called Galaxy is owned by GM Hughes of the United States, Cisneros Group of Venezuela, Multivision of Mexico and TVA Abril of Brazil. Its main competitor is Sky Entertainment, owned by multinational News Corp Ltd, Tele-Communications Inc of the United States, Mexico's Televisa and TV Globo of Brazil.
"This is a market destine to grow, and grow it will," Koplovitz said.
-- Miami Newsroom, 305-374-5013.
Scottish Amicable said on Tuesday it will be giving policyholders information about Abbey National's bid for the company when it details its own proposals to shed its mutual status and float on the stock market.
A spokesman for the life assurer, which has been fighting a public campaign against Abbey's offer said: "It's obviously only right that we tell policyholders that they made an approach for us...we don't want to hide anything from them."
It is unclear how much detail will be put before policyholders by ScotAm which has repeatedly rebuffed Abbey demands that the timetable for its demutualisation proposals be stopped to allow policyholders to consider the offer.
ScotAm has also turned down Abbey requests for access to its books or meetings to discuss the bid which values ScotAm at up to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.25 billion).
It includes an immediate 400 million pound minimum payout to policyholders in cash or Abbey shares.
Abbey, Britain's fifth largest bank, has complained that policyholders should have the opportunity to compare the ScotAm proposals with alternative offers based on the same information.
The public campaign between the two companies was stepped up on Tuesday with a full-page advertisement in the form of an open letter to policyholders, promising to give them all the information required to make a choice on the firm's future.
"At the precise moment when calm and considered reflection is of the utmost importance, the accent appears to be wholly on how much can be extracted by way of cash payments in the very short term, rather than on policyholders' long term best interests," said the letter which appeared in the Financial Times, the Daily Mail and Daily Telegraph newspapers.
It went on to promise that policyholders would be informed if a "definitive and demonstrably better offer" was made before any vote on the proposals was taken.
The ScotAm board's fiduciary duty is to policyholders who own the company and there has been speculation that it may be holding off from embracing Abbey in the hope of encouraging other bidders to come forward.
The bid is expected to spark an auction for ScotAm but other interested parties may decide to stay on the sidelines ahead of the publication of ScotAm's float plans within the next week.
"The board obviously has a duty to do the best by policyholders - they should be exploring all the avenues they can. By refusing to cooperate with Abbey they're making things harder for themselves," said one fund manager.
Martin Lees, life insurance specialist at ratings agency Standard &amp; Poors tipped Dutch insurance group Aegon and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP) as front-runners to enter the race for ScotAm.
AMP had already stated its interest in more British acquisitions and a company that used independent financial advisors as its main means of distribution would be a good fit, said Lees.
Aegon's previous acquisition of Scottish Equitable had demonstrated its ability to provide extra capital to allow aggressive development, he said.
Other companies reported to be interested include the Prudential, the Halifax building society, Dutch group ING Groep and Belgian-Dutch financial services firm Fortis.
All have declined to comment on the reports. ($1=.6237 Pound)
The Toronto stock market posted its sixth record close of the year on Tuesday, led by a rally in Canada's so-called Big Six banks.
Toronto's key 300 Composite Index rose 4.48 points to close at 6145.41 in turnover of 115.4 million shares worth C$1.8 billion ($1.3 billion).
Investors snapped up banks and other financial service stocks in anticipation that the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee will announce it is keeping short-term interest rates unchanged following a two-day meeting which ends on Wednesday, analysts said.
"The most exciting group today was none other than the financial services," said RBC Dominion Securities investment advisor Ira Katzin.
"The feeling is that interest rates are not going to rise," he said.
Advancing stocks outpaced declines 506 to 464 while another 303 issues were unchanged.
The banks led Toronto's six strong groups with a 1.8 percent gain, followed by pipelines and utilities. The TSE's eight weak sectors included media, golds and oils.
--- HOT STOCKS ---
* The Bank of Montreal, Canada's third largest bank, jumped 1.15 to finish at 48.85 on more than two million shares. Bank of Nova Scotia gained 1.40 to close at 50 on 491,000 shares.
* Junior minerals explorer Pure Gold Resources Inc. continued to lead active stocks, rising 0.05 to 0.415 on 7.6 million shares.
* Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. fell 3.50 to 109.50 on turnover of 197,000 shares, depressed by weak potash prices.
ScotiaMcLeod analyst Sam Kanes said Russia has been exporting potash at cheaper rates recently.
"It's the number one competitor for Potash in Saskatchewan for the moment and they continue to sell their potash at aggressive pricing," Kanes said.
Global media group News Corp Ltd must report a sharply stronger second quarter profit this Thursday or it will fail to achieve its 20 percent growth target for the 1996/97 year, analysts said.
News Corp is expected to report a second quarter net profit before abnormals of between A$450 million and A$490 million, taking first half net profits to between A$735 million and A$775 million.  
This compares with A$285 million in the first quarter and would be up 17 percent from the A$663 million posted in the first half of 1995/96.
Analysts said strong receipts from the box-office hit "Independence Day" and firm U.S. television revenue would be the driving factors in the stronger result.
They said the market was demanding that News put out a strong second quarter figure after a series of below-expectation results.  
News' first half must be around 15 to 20 percent better if Rupert Murdoch's group is to achieve its August 1996 forecast of a 20 percent improvement in profits in 1996/97 from the A$1.26 billion achieved in 1995/96.
"They are going to have to get a move on in this quarter if they're going to achieve that 20 percent," said one senior News Corp analyst.
"If they can't get a decent rise for the quarter, people are going to panic," the analyst said.  
Analysts said they expected revenues from Australian newspapers and magazines and the Ansett airline operation to remain weak in the second quarter.
First Pacific analyst Lachlan Drummond said he expected Independence Day revenues to be the major factor in the stronger result.
"Television is also one area where there's room for some upside," Drummond said. He is forecasting A$474 million for the second quarter.  
Analysts also said a good result was likely because News was due to give a big presentation to analysts and investors on February 24 in Los Angeles and would be reluctant to disappoint them immediately before that.
"That's got everyone believing that they won't have a bad result," Drummond said.
The market would also watch the results commentary closely for a repeat of the 20 percent growth forecast.
Executive chairman and founder Rupert Murdoch repeated the forecast in October last year at the group's annual meeting in Adelaide.  
But analysts said company officials had been reluctant to repeat the forecast since then.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
An influential economic research group is preparing guidelines on computer encryption for its member countries but will duck some of the most contentious issues involved, according to a draft obtained by Reuters.
The Clinton administration, seeking to rally support for its controversial policy on exporting encryption products -- which encode and decode e-mail and other computerized messages -- failed to win an endorsement from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), although the group did discuss the administration's approach.
On perhaps the most difficult issue, the draft guidelines do not favour or oppose a requirement in the U.S. policy that data-scrambling encryption programmes provide a way for law enforcement officials to obtain keys to crack the codes when necessary.
After indicating that governments should carefully weigh the costs and benefits of imposing so-called key recovery, the draft report said, "this principle should not be interpreted as implying that governments should, or should not, initiate legislation that would allow lawful access."
On all the controversial areas in the draft, "the member countries of the OECD have strongly held views but they don't always coincide," John Dryden, head of the group's Information, Computer and Communications Policy division, said in a telephone interview from Paris.
Some countries see widespread use of encryption as a way to protect the privacy of computer users and businesses, thereby encouraging global commerce, Dryden said. But others see encryption as possibly thwarting law enforcement's efforts to catch criminals and global terrorists, he said.
The guidelines suggest encryption users should have access to products that meet their needs. Government controls should be "no more than are essential to the discharge of government responsibilities."
Instead of reconciling the different views, the draft guidelines lay out competing interests and approaches.
"It's not in itself a cryptography policy and it's not an attempt to draft a model national law that we're encouraging people to adopt," Dryden said. Cryptography refers to products and systems used in encryption.
The guidelines also suggest encryption standards and usage should be "determined by the market in an open and competitive environment."
"There's a strong view that the private sector should have the possibility to use information networks to the best of their potential in order to create growth and jobs," Dryden said.
U.S. officials who have seen the preliminary draft praised the guidelines. "They're an important and helpful step forward," Undersecretary of Commerce William Reinsch said.
"They're helpful because they put down on paper the proper foundation for getting into this," he added.
Reinsch said most countries will follow the U.S. lead and require so-called key recovery features for law enforcement. Under the Clinton policy, domestic use of encryption is not regulated but the strongest coding products cannot be exported unless they include key recovery.
U.S. companies that have opposed the Clinton policy, contending it stifles their ability to compete with unfettered foreign firms, drew little solace from the draft guidelines.
"This is not helpful," said Netscape Communications Corp.'s public policy counsel, Peter Harter. Netscape and other companies preferred stronger language endorsing free-market policies, he said.
The draft guidelines, approved by a group of government and private-sector experts at a meeting at the end of January, still must be approved by a top-level OECD officials from the group's 29 member countries, including the United States, Japan and Germany.
An influential global research group is preparing guidelines on encryption policy for its member countries but will duck some of the most contentious issues involved, according to a draft of the report obtained by Reuters.
The Clinton administration, seeking to rally support at home and abroad for its controversial encryption export policy, got some discussion of its approach in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines but not an endorsement.  
On perhaps the most difficult issue, the draft guidelines do not favor or oppose a requirement in the U.S. policy that data-scrambling encryption programs provide a means for law enforcement officials to obtain keys to crack the codes when necessary.
After indicating that governments should carefully weigh the costs and benefits of imposing so-called key recovery, the draft states "this principle should not be interpreted as implying that governments should, or should not, initiate legislation that would allow lawful access."  
On all the controversial areas in the draft, "the member countries of the OECD have strongly held views but they don't always coincide," said John Dryden, head of the group's Information, Computer and Communications Policy division, in a telephone interview from Paris.
Some countries see widespread use of encryption as a means to protect the privacy of computer users and businesses, thereby encouraging global commerce, Dryden observed.
But others see encryption as possibly thwarting law enforcement's efforts to catch criminals and global terrorists, he said.  
The guidelines suggest that encryption users should have "access to cryptography that meets their needs."  Government controls should be "no more than are essential to the discharge of government responsibilities."
Instead of reconciling the different views, the draft guidelines lay out competing interests and possible approaches.
"It's not in itself a cryptography policy and it's not a attempt to draft a model national law that we're encouraging people to adopt," Dryden said.  
The guidelines also suggest encryption standards and usage should be "determined by the market in an open and competitive environment."
"There's a strong view that the private sector should have the possibility to use information networks to the best of their potential in order to create growth and jobs," Dryden said.
U.S. officials who have seen the preliminary draft praised its approach.  "They're an important and helpful step forward," Under Secretary of Commerce William Reinsch said.  
"They're helpful because they put down on paper the proper foundation for getting into this," he added
Reinsch maintained that most countries will follow the U.S. lead and require so-called key recovery features for law enforcement.  Under the Clinton policy, domestic use of encryption is not regulated but the strongest coding products cannot be exported unless they include key recovery.
The draft guidelines, approved by a group of government and private sector experts at a meeting at the end of January, still must be approved by the top-level OECD council.  
The council is composed of ambassadors from the 29 member countries.
U.S. companies that have opposed the Clinton policy, contending it stifles their ability to compete with unfettered foreign firms, drew little solace from the OECD draft.
"This is not helpful," Netscape Communications Corp's public policy counsel Peter Harter said.  Netscape and other companies preferred stronger language endorsing free market policies, he said.
((--202-898-8312))
Global media group News Corp Ltd must report a sharply higher second quarter profit on Thursday or it will fail to achieve its 20 percent growth target for the 1996/97 year, analysts said.
News Corp is expected to report a second quarter net profit before abnormals of between A$450 million (US$344.25 million) and A$490 million, taking first half net profits to between A$735 million and A$775 million.
This compares with A$285 million in the first quarter and would be up 17 percent from the A$663 million posted in the first half of 1995/96.
Analysts said strong receipts from the box-office hit alien movie "Independence Day" and firm U.S. television revenue would be the driving factors in the stronger result.
They said the market was demanding News put out a strong second quarter figure after a series of below-expectation results.
The analysts said the extent of any fall in the price of News Corp shares would depend on how far earnings fell short of expectations but they did not quantify any expected drop.  
News' first half must be around 15 to 20 percent better if Rupert Murdoch's group is to achieve its August 1996 forecast of a 20 percent improvement in profits in 1996/97 from the A$1.26 billion achieved in 1995/96.
"They are going to have to get a move on in this quarter if they're going to achieve that 20 percent," said one senior analyst on Tuesday.
"If they can't get a decent rise for the quarter, people are going to panic," the analyst told Reuters.
Analysts said they expected revenues from Australian newspapers and magazines and the Ansett airline operation to remain weak in the second quarter.
First Pacific analyst Lachlan Drummond said he expected "Independence Day" revenues to be the major factor in the stronger result.
"Television is also one area where there's room for some upside," Drummond said. He is forecasting A$474 million for the second quarter.
Analysts also said a good result was likely because News was due to give a big presentation to analysts and investors on February 24 in Los Angeles and would be reluctant to disappoint them before that.  
"That's got everyone believing that they won't have a bad result," Drummond said.
The market would also watch the results commentary closely for a repeat of the 20 percent growth forecast.
Executive chairman and founder Rupert Murdoch repeated the forecast in October last year at the group's annual meeting in Adelaide. But analysts said company officials had been reluctant to repeat the forecast since then.  
News Corp shares ended one cent higher at A$6.75 on Tuesday
(A$1=US$0.76)
The head of one of Lloyd's of London's largest corporate investors said on Wednesday he expected the number of traditional Names at Lloyd's of London to continue to fall to a core of between 4,000 and 5,000.
John Stace, chief executive of Angerstein Underwriting Investment Trust, told Reuters it was likely that the number of members' agencies looking after Names' interests would drop to just four or five.
Angerstein owns Stace Barr, one of the biggest remaining members agents, representing 933 Names.  
Stace said the aim was for Stace Barr to remain one of the top surviving members' agencies with around 1,000 Names.
Angerstein's operations director James Illingworth said Lloyd's 12,000 plus remaining Names would be faced with resigning membership, converting to some sort of limited liability or remaining as unlimited liability backers.
Around half are expected to resign in the coming years or convert to limited liability schemes.
Despite a number of schemes being set up to allow conversion to limited liability, these had so far been small and unsuited to mass conversion.  
"Scottish limited liability Partnership has not been that succesful. I don't think it is the answer to mass conversion," said Illingworth.
Angerstein has an interest in finding a solution to the conversion problem and like many others was working on it, but it was too early to say how long this would take, he said, adding that any scheme must be relatively simple.
An announcement is also likely by the end of April on the question of solvency ratios for individual names, Stace said.
At present, names must put up liquid assets of 20 to 30 percent of their underwriting limit, while Names in pooled underwriting arrangements, known as MAPAs, must put up 25 percent.
Most corporate investors do not enjoy such a high level of gearing and pressure is mounting for a change in the rules applying to Names.
"Four-to-one MAPAs solvency will change," Stace said, adding that his personal opinion was that three-to-one for Names was probably appropriate.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7721
Toronto's stock market ended lower on Wednesday, dragged down by Wall Street after U.S. high technology stocks were hit by profit-taking.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index lost 33 points to end at 6112.41. Turnover was heavy at 130.5 million shares worth C$2.04 billion ($1.52 billion).
The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 86.51 to close at 6746.90 as major high tech issues sold off, traders said.
North American markets were looking for an excuse to reap profits after recent highs, said portfolio consultant Ron Meisels.
Investors decided to sell after the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee decided to keep short-term interest rates unchanged as expected by analysts.
"In spite of the good news, people decided to take profits," Meisels said.
All but three of Toronto's 14 sub-indices slipped into negative territory. Transportation posted the biggest decline, followed by oils, golds and conglomerates. The TSE posted gains in pipelines, consumer products and real estate.
Declining issues outpaced advances 441 to 539 with 300 stocks unchanged.
Among active stocks, Morrison Petroleum Ltd. lost 0.15 to close at 10.15 on over three million shares. Morrison is still seeking a white knight to oppose a hostile takeover bid from Canadian 88 Energy Corp.
Canadian 88 shares rose 0.25 to close at 6.00 in active trading.
Bank of Montreal lost 0.50 to finish at 47.95 after hitting a new high of 49.15 earlier in the session. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce rose 0.70 to 63.40 on 1.7 million shares after reaching a 52-week peak of 63.95.
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. continued to lose ground after Tuesday's drop, falling 4.50 to 105.00 on 86,000 shares.
Ivory Coast opened three days of cocoa sector reform talks on Wednesday aimed at fine-tuning donor-sponsored liberalisation policies, with bean quality high on the agenda.
"Liberalisation is about reducing the role of the state. We need less state but a better state," said Philippe Mian, president of Ivory Coast's Consultative Committee, which is hosting the talks which end on Friday.
Dutch Cocoa Association president Louis Bensdorp told Reuters two issues would dominate the talks.
"The main issues are the quality of the cocoa and the assurance of contracts," he said before going into talks.
Ivory Coast's Consultative Committee, grouping Ivorian officials, loan donors and international cocoa industry bodies, was set up in October under the terms of a World Bank Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC).
Ivory Coast has liberalised internal and some external cocoa marketing functions since 1990 but there have been industry concerns over cocoa quality and the functioning of a new commodities auction system in place since May 1996.
Other agenda items include an overall review of reforms, cocoa quality issues, local processing of cocoa and policy revision recommendations.
Ivory Coast's commodities minister, Guy-Alain Gauze, said reform revisions would help Ivory Coast's competitiveness.
"A problem remains with importers about quality," Gauze told reporters before going into the private talks.
"The proposals forming part of the sector reforms deal with quality and security of supplies for European and American importers," he added, referring to complaints by exporters that some firms were overbidding on the auction system to win contracts.
Revisions to the auction system would be discussed but were not officially on the agenda, Mian told Reuters.
"Nothing is perfect and the auction system could well have weak points which could be corrected and for which proposals could be made," he said during a midday break in talks.
Further cuts in the role of the Caistab marketing board would also be discussed, he added.
Dutch Cocoa Association president Bensdorp said industry would argue for changes to the auction system and seek better quality controls.
"What we do not like is the 85 to 15 percent rule as there is too little chance for foreign companies to buy cocoa directly," he added.
Under auction rules 85 percent of Ivorian cocoa export rights are auctioned to local exporters, with the remaining 15 percent reserved by the Caistab for direct sale to traders abroad.
"The problem is that, of the 15 percent, 10 percent is sold to Phibro so only five percent is available for the rest of international trade," he added.
U.S.-based trader Phibro has a long-standing cocoa contract with the Caisab which is due to expire this year.
Bensdorp also referred to concerns over cocoa quality.
"Usually we see a deterioration of quality after the main months, in fact about now. The main problem is a lack of proper quality checks," he said.
World Bank, International Monetary Fund, European Union, International Cocoa Organization, France's development agency and Ivorian officials will issue their findings on Friday. -- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Faced with persistent market rumours that it is on the verge of collapse, Nippon Credit Bank Ltd went public on Wednesday to say that any such talk is "totally groundless".
"In the markets, unsourced rumours such as the suggestion that our bank is practically on the verge of collapse are circulating and are prompting sales of our shares and debentures," NCB vice president Shoji Nishikawa told a hastily convened news conference.
"Such rumours are totally groundless and our bank would like to declare that these rumours are not true," he said.
Finance Minister Hiroshi Mitsuzuka also came out in support of long-suffering Nippon Credit, whose failure could spark a crisis in the banking industry.
He said the government will fully support the bank, although he added that the ministry is not worried about the financial health of Nippon Credit, the smallest of the nation's three long-term credit banks.
"The ministry has had no worries about the bank. It (the bank) is doing its utmost to improve its management. We don't believe that the bank will collapse as some media reports have said," Mitsuzuka told reporters at his regular news conference.
Nippon Credit's latest ordeal began early Wednesday when traders began to sell its shares on vague talk that NCB would hold an emergency news conference. There was also a vague rumour about a possible merger involving NCB, they said.
The dumping of the bank's shares ignited renewed selling throughout the banking sector. The sharp fall in banking shares has been largely to blame for the tumble in the Tokyo stock market since mid-December.
Nippon Credit shares fell 35 yen (28 cents) to close on Wednesday at an all-time low of 181 yen ($1.47).
In the bond market, NCB's latest debentures are selling at a yield of 4.1 percent, a full 2.5 percentage points above bonds issued by other banks, reflecting the perceived risk in its debts.
Nishikawa said the sell-off was influenced by exaggerated media reports which hyped concerns over the health of Japan's financial system.
"We believe the market condition has deviated greatly from the realities of the bank. We hope market participants will calm down," he said.
He also said the bank would be able to post a current profit in 1996/97 even after disposing of problem loans as it had planned -- if Tokyo stock prices remain at their current levels.
Like other banks, NCB relies on its own share holdings to help provide needed cash so as the stock market tumbles, its situation worsens. That has created a vicious circle for the Tokyo stock market.
The bank plans to write off problem loans of 130 billion yen ($1.05 billion) in the current fiscal year ending March 31. As of the end of September, such problem loans totalled 1.39 trillion yen ($11.3 billion).
Some analysts said that it is unclear whether the news conference by NCB and the finance ministry's pledge to support the bank would help regain confidence in Japan's banking sector.
"In the long-term, the banking sector will remain under pressure until Japan completes its 'Big Bang' financial reforms," said Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre. ($1=123 yen)
An international Internet group released its plan Wednesday to dramatically increase the number of available addresses in cyberspace while quelling disputes over the use of trademarks in those address names.
The International Ad Hoc Committee, which includes members of Internet standards-setting bodies and legal and communications experts, proposed seven new "top-level domains," the last block of letters at the end of every Internet address.
If the plan is adopted, Net surfers will see addresses ending in "web", "store", "info", "firm", "arts", "rec" and "nom", joining "com", "edu", "gov" and other existing top-level domains.
Each new domain reflects a particular type or category of Internet site. For example, "rec" would be for sites emphasising recreation and entertainment, while "nom" would be for those desiring individual or personal nomenclature.
In drafting the plan, the group received more than 4,000 comments from around the world. The consensus-building approach followed an outcry that arose when a few Internet bodies unveiled a similiar plan last August.
"We are very pleased with the acceptance and broad consensus that we have achieved in this process," said Donald Heath, president of the Internet Society and chair of the ad hoc committee. "To attain its fullest potential, the Internet requires true self-governance."
Heath said the plan should be approved by Internet standard setters within a few weeks, allowing new domains to come online about three months later.
The plan includes provisions to resolve disputes arising over the use of trademarked names as Internet addresses.
Last year, for example, toymaker Hasbro Inc. won a lawsuit to regain control of the Internet address "candyland.com," which was being used for an adult Web site with nude photographs.
But more complex disputes are arising where both parties may have a legitimate claim to an Internet address.
Under the committee plan, anyone applying for an Internet address will have to agree to resolve disputes through online mediation under the rules of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. Mediation will be provided by panels composed of international experts on intellectual property, trademarks and the Net. Challenges initiated within 60 days of an address registration would be resolved within 30 days.
All challenges and proposed decisions would be made public and time allowed for comment before a final decision was rendered.
The plan will not completely eliminate court battles, attorneys said. "It's much better than the policies we've seen in the past, but, just by the nature of how valuable these domains have become, litigation will continue," said Paul Terry, Internet law specialist at Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam &amp; Roberts.
The plan also calls for establishing up to 28 competing registration firms to dole out the new addresses. The firms will operate under the auspices of a Council of Registrars, to be established as a non-profit association in Switzerland.
Currently, one firm, Herndon, Va.-based Network Solutions Inc., hands out addresses in the most popular domains, charging $100 for a two-year registration.
Network Solutions, which registers over 80,000 new Internet addresses a month, had no comment on the plan, but a spokesman raised doubts about its viability. "We're concerned with the stability and integrity of the registration process," spokesman Christopher Clough said.
The complete proposal is posted on the World Wide Web at http://www.iahc.org/draft-iahc-recommend-00.html.
U.S. Vice President Al Gore on Wednesday defended last year's telecommunications law against critics who charge it is a failure, saying that the Clinton administration has no plans to try and reopen the act.
"This is the first year of a process of change that will take quite some time," Gore told a group of reporters. He also noted that several key provisions of the sweeping law have yet to be implemented.  
The law, enacted last February 8, ripped down 62-year-old legal barriers and encouraged local and long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators, electric utilities and others to invade each other's backyards.
Gore said the difficult negotiations over the bill during the prior four years have led most participants to realize just how delicate and complex the legislation is.
"Most reasonable people believe it will be a little time before much of it is opened up," Gore said, echoing the view of several lawmakers on Capitol Hill.  
But critics -- including influential Arizona Republican Senator John McCain and consumer groups -- complain that despite the bill's enactment, the $100 billion local phone market remains a monopoly run by the Baby Bells and other local carriers.
They also note that the $78 billion long-distance market remains dominated by AT&amp;T Corp, MCI Communications Corp and Sprint Corp.
Prices for communications services, instead of falling, are rising. Cable-TV rates jumped 7.8 percent last year, more than double the 3.3 percent rise in consumer prices.  
Residential interstate long-distance rates rose 3.7 percent, while intrastate long-distance rates jumped 6.1 percent.
Gore noted, however, that the increases in cable-TV rates are not a result of the new law and that they come within the guidelines established by a major 1992 cable-TV law.
Meanwhile, big cable-TV operators such as Time Warner Inc and Tele-Communications Inc have watered down plans to offer phone and other services and are instead defending their own turf.  
Gore said he was "surprised" by those decisions, but added that it has not been universal among all cable companies.
"I rather suspect the pioneers who make these investments will be handsomely rewarded by the market," Gore said. That, in turn, should spur other cable companies to take the plunge and diversify their offerings.
Meanwhile, Gore aide Greg Simon told reporters that the administration is sticking by its proposal for an expedited auction of analog spectrum that will be returned by television broadcasters during the transition to digital TV.
Under the administration plan, the government would auction the spectrum in 2002, with digital TV stations required to return their analog channel to the government no later than 2005.
In a move to end "shock at the dock," six top cruise-ship lines agreed Wednesday to include all fees in the advertised price, and make booking a cruise as simple as buying an airline ticket.
Add-on fees as high as $150 a person will be included in advertised prices so consumers will not be surprised when the final tally is made.
"You won't have any more shock at the dock," Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth said in an interview.
Separately negotiated deals with Butterworth's staff, including one with industry-leader Carnival Corp., cover only lines operating out of Florida ports but should be felt all over the United States, Butterworth said.
Florida has two million cruise passengers each year, or about 60 percent of the North American market, and shapes national television ad campaigns by an industry courting customers throughout the continent.
Two other lines, Princess and Holland America, operating mainly out of California, Washington state and Alaska, are also likely to adopt the full-price policies, Butterworth said. Smaller lines are also likely to take up full-price advertising, he said.
"Combining port charges with the cruise fare will not change the total price paid by the consumer," said Adam Goldstein, marketing chief for Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd another of the lines adopting the full-price policy.
Butterworth said cruise lines had over the years begun adding many operating costs to port fees, which most passengers believed were government taxes. The fees can add as much as 30 percent to a basic trip price. Now, only minor fees such as head taxes and port pilot fees actually paid to governments can be added.
Some lines, Butterworth said, were charging as port fees the salaries of cruise crew while their ships were docked and other operating costs in no way connected with any government.
"Anything could have been expensed in this way. It could be the food put on for the trip; it could be the water," Butterworth said.
Butterworth also said the lines -- including Norwegian Cruise Line Ltd., Celebrity Cruises Inc., Dolphin Cruise Line and Majesty Cruise Line -- would pay Florida $295,000 as part of the agreements.
Carnival said in a news release that the $295,000 in fees were neither fines nor penalties but payments to cover the costs of an 18-month state investigation. The company also said its brochures had always included a notice that extra port fees were required of Carnival passengers.
Carnival President Bob Dickinson said his company had been merely following an industry norm, in which port fees were added on to the advertised prices.
Advertising rates for Carnival and Royal Caribbean trips would be changed beginning later this month, the companies said.
Butterworth said the pricing changes may prove a boon to the cruise-ship industry, since passengers will not be startled by higher prices when they book. "We want just one price, just like the airlines," he said.
Last summer, one-day cruise ship lines in Port Everglades, a major cruise venue near Fort Lauderdale, agreed to stop calling passenger charges as high as $19 "port fees" because only about $3 was being passed on to governments.
"Government gets blamed for enough already," Butterworth said.
Lawmakers and law-enforcement officials voiced support Wednesday for tougher laws to bar eavesdropping on cellular phone calls, following the uproar over Newt Gingrich's intercepted call.
A House telecommunications subcommittee is training its sights on a little-enforced law banning the sale, manufacture and importation of scanners that can pick up cellular calls.
Despite the 1992 law, scanner enthusiasts have used legal loopholes to modify tens of thousands of otherwise legal scanners so they can overhear cellular traffic. An estimated 10 million legal scanners are in the hands of the public.
"Our goal is to make sure that the sale of this kind of equipment drops precipitously," declared Representative Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat and author of the law.
Markey, speaking at a hearing of the subcommittee, called the modified scanners "a great danger to the presumption of privacy" enjoyed by users of cellular phones.
Markey expressed support for closing the necessary loopholes to make it tougher for scanner operators to illegally tap in on cellular calls.
The head of the subcommittee, Representative Billy Tauzin, R-La., also said "there is a problem in enforcement."
He noted the Federal Communications Commission refers potential criminal cases to other agencies "that may have less interest in enforcing the anti-intercept laws, due to other, and perhaps, more important law-enforcement priorities.
"Perhaps a solution is to rationalise the respective enforcement roles of the FCC, the Justice Department and the FBI," Tauzin added.
Last month, the FBI opened an investigation into the taping and leaking of an embarrassing conference call between House Speaker Gingrich and his top lieutenants.
The probe came after a Florida couple said they delivered a tape of the cell-phone conversation to the senior Democrat on the House Ethics Committee, which was deliberating over a politically charged case involving Gingrich.
A transcript of the tape was published in two newspapers two days later, prompting Republican calls for an FBI criminal probe into the source of the tape.
Federal law also makes it a crime to intentionally intercept or disclose the contents of a phone call, regardless of whether it is over a hard-wired, cellular or cordless phone. Criminal violation is punishable by a penalty of up to five years in jail and a $250,000 fine.
But in the case of wireless calls in particular, the law is little enforced and penalties are light because cellular traffic is so easily intercepted.
Unless there are "aggravating" circumstances, such as a repeat offence, eavesdropping on a cellular call is treated as an infraction, with no jail time and a maximum fine of $5,000.
Deputy Assistant Attorney General Robert Litt suggested to lawmakers they explore "whether it continues to make sense" to levy different penalties for eavesdropping on the different types of calls.
"From the point of view of the person having the conversation, the invasion of privacy is the same," he said.
Veronika Hirsch, a flamboyant Canadian stock picker whose high-profile move to Fidelity Investments was marred by controversy, parted with the Boston-based fund company on Tuesday.
"We've concluded the discussions and Fidelity wishes Ms. Hirsch well in her future endeavours," Fidelity spokesman Chethan Lakshman said in a telephone interview.
Hirsch was a star fund manager hired last summer to spearhead Fidelity's drive to dominate the Canadian market.
But Canada's so-called "Fund Diva" was removed from her portfolio in November amid a controversy over personal trades she made before joining the world's biggest mutual fund company.
Lakshman did not give details of the agreement with Hirsch, who has kept a low profile since her investments in a small Vancouver company, Oliver Gold Corp., grabbed headlines and the attention of regulators last November.
Hirsch's lawyer, Tom Lockwood, said on Tuesday that she is weighing her options, including offers to go on the lecture circuit or write a book.
"There's private money management prospects and there are mutual fund prospects. There have been a number of approaches made and she's considering what she will do next," he said.
At issue was Hirsch's purchase of 65,000 special warrants of Oliver Gold through a private placement while she was a fund manager with AGF Management Ltd. in Toronto.
Shortly after the warrant purchase, Hirsch's AGF Growth &amp; Income Fund bought 295,000 special warrants of Oliver Gold at more than double the price paid by Hirsch, according to filings with the British Columbia Securities Commission and reported by Stockwatch, a Canadian investment publication.
Fidelity removed Hirsch from her True North Equity Fund last November after Canadian securities regulators confirmed her personal investments were under investigation.
The dramatic move came barely three months after Fidelity poached Hirsch from AGF to lead its expansion drive in Canada where it ranks ninth with C$8.2 billion ($6.1 billion) in assets.
Canadians have more than C$211 billion ($156 billion) stashed in mutual funds, an eight-fold increase from 1990. An estimated C$23 billion ($17 billion) will be added to the pot this year, analysts forecast.
While at AGF, Hirch was the focus of a multi-million dollar advertising campaign which made her Canada's top celebrity fund manager.
When Hirsch jumped to Fidelity, her leather outfits and blood-red nails appeared an uncomfortable fit with Fidelity's ultra-conservative culture, but the hiring was considered a major coup within the industry.
Hirsch's old True North fund is now under a less flamboyant manager and has accumulated C$280 million ($208 million) in assets since its launch last September.
While analysts have said it is difficult to assess the damage to Fidelity's expansion drive, the Hirsch affair has changed how fund companies sell their product.
Brash campaigns built around high-profile stock pickers are out and the "team" is in, analysts said.
Australia's biggest retailer, Coles Myer Ltd, reported on Wednesday a firm rise in sales revenue, signalling the worst may be over for the country's long-suffering merchants.
Coles announced a 5.4 percent rise in sales revenue to A$9.9 billion (US$7.5 billion) for the six months to January 26, sounding a rare note of optimism in an industry that has been hit hard by a downturn in consumer spending.
Coles, which pockets almost 18 cents in every retail dollar spent in Australia, attributed the result to good management rather than any pick-up in the economy.
"A lot of people have done a lot of work to get where we needed to get," Coles chief executive Dennis Eck told Reuters.
But Coles' announcement came a day after another retailer, David Jones Ltd, reassessed its profit outlook, painting a slighter brighter picture than the bleak dive in earnings it forecast just after Christmas.
David Jones, an upmarket department store chain, had told the Australian Stock Exchange early last month it feared a 50 percent fall in interim profit, but changed its mind this week.
"It will not be as bad as that," David Jones chief executive Chris Tideman told Reuters on Tuesday.
He did not elaborate but stock analysts said on Wednesday post-Christmas clearance sales helped lift the company's overall sales result to A$783 million for the first half year ending January 25 -- just one percent lower than a year ago.
"I think we have probably gone through the worst in spending, but I would not expect a dramatically big turnaround," said retail analyst Simon Shakesheff, of Macquarie Bank.
"The sentiment is still a bit fragile, but at the end of the day, until there's a bit more job creation out there, people are not going to be spending more," he told Reuters.
Another Sydney-based analyst agreed that consumers' wallets would be slow to open.
"I think we will (see a recovery) but I don't think we saw it in January," the analyst said.
Australian retail sales are at their lowest ebb since the nation's official statistician began counting them 35 years ago. They have fallen in trend terms in each of the past five months.
Employment has also been weak with Australia's jobless rate hovering at 8.6 percent.
Coles confirmed on Wednesday that trading conditions were still tough, especially in clothing and fashion. The group's only specialist apparel chain, Katies, reported a 4.7 percent drop in turnover in the latest sales figures.
But Coles' Eck said profit margins in its underperforming department store chains were improving, as store managers improved the quality of merchandise sold and pared back costs.
In sharp contrast to the group's 33.8 percent fall in net profit in 1995/96, Eck said he expected an increase in bottom-line earnings for the current year ending July 27.
"Our earnings are in line with our plan," he said.
Coles reported net profit of A$280 million in 1995/96, and stock analysts are forecasting a modest profit rise in 1996/97.
(A$1 = US$0.76)
Australia's biggest retailer, Coles Myer Ltd, reported on Wednesday a firm rise in sales revenue, signalling the worst may be over for the country's struggling merchants.
Coles announced a 5.4 percent rise in sales revenue to A$9.9 billion for the six months to January 26, sounding a rare note of optimism in an industry that has been hit hard by a downturn in consumer spending.  
Coles, which pockets almost 18 cents in every retail dollar spent in Australia, attributed the result to good management rather than any pick-up in the economy.
"A lot of people have done a lot of work to get where we needed to get," Coles chief executive Dennis Eck told Reuters.
But Coles' sale announcement came after another retailer, David Jones Ltd, reassessed its profit outlook, painting a slighter brighter picture than the bleak dive in earnings it forecast just after Christmas.  
David Jones, an upmarket department store chain, had told the Australian Stock Exchange early last month it feared a 50 percent fall in interim profit, but changed its mind this week.
"It will not be as bad as that," David Jones chief executive Chris Tideman told Reuters on Tuesday.
He did not elaborate but stock analysts said on Wednesday post-Christmas clearance sales helped lift the company's overall sales result for the first half year to January 25 to A$783 million, only one percent lower than a year ago.  
"I think we have probably gone through the worst in spending, but I would not expect a dramatically big turnaround," said retail analyst Simon Shakesheff, of Macquarie Bank.
"The sentiment is still a bit fragile, but at the end of the day, until there's a bit more job creation out there, people are not going to be spending more," he added.
Another Sydney-based analyst agreed that consumers' wallets would be slow to open.
"I think we will (see a recovery) but I don't think we saw it in January," the analyst said.  
Australian retail sales are at their lowest ebb since the nation's official statistician began counting them 35 years ago. They have fallen in trend terms in each of the past five months.
Employment has also been weak with Australia's jobless rate hovering at 8.6 percent.
Coles confirmed on Wednesday that trading conditions were still tough, especially in the areas of clothing and fashion where its only specialist apparel chain, Katies, reported a 4.7 percent drop in retail sales for the second quarter.  
But Coles' Eck said profit margins in its underperforming department store chains were improving, as store managers improved the quality of merchandise sold and pared back costs.
In sharp contrast to the group's 33.8 percent fall in net profit in 1995/96, Eck said he expected an increase in bottom-line earnings for the current year ending July 27.
"Our earnings are in line with our plan," he said.
Coles reported net profit of A$280 million in 1995/96, and stock analysts are forecasting a modest profit rise in 1996/97.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1421
The vulnerability of Japan's banking sector shares to rumour-led selloffs shows that investor confidence in the sector is still thin, brokers and analysts said on Wednesday.
Bank shares tumbled after vague market talk, later denied, that Nippon Credit Bank Ltd (NCB) would hold an emergency news conference reignited worries about Japan's financial system, they said.
"We cannot say that the negative trend in the banking sector has finished," Masaaki Higashida, a strategist at Nomura Securities, said. "Markets are still sensitive about rumours, and this shows that investors remain concerned about the financial health of banks," he said.  
It was hard to predict how far bank shares will fall, analysts said, adding that there are no quick remedies to regain the lost confidence in the sector aside from improving asset quality by disposing of problem loans.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre, said: "In the long-term, the banking sector may remain under pressure until Japan completes its Big Bang financial reforms."
"It is also difficult to become positive on the sector near-term, particularly if looking at interest rate prospects," he said, adding that interest rates have nowhere to go but up, as they have already fallen to a historically low level.  
Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc, said that the market's view of banks' financial health may further erode because land prices remain under pressure and this has cast doubts over the economic recovery.
"Financially weak banks must try harder to regain the confidence from investors by cutting non-performing loans and less-profitable assets," another analyst said.
One bright factor which may emerge is a move within parliament by some opposition politicians calling for the use of fresh public money to deal with problem loan issue, analysts and brokers said.
"If a system to use public money to bail out big banks is established, it will ease the nerves in the stock market and selective buying of strong banks will emerge," a market source said.
Last month, Moody's Investor Service lowered its ratings outlook for NCB and three other Japanese banks -- Hokkaido Takushoku Bank Ltd, Yasuda Trust &amp; Banking Ltd and Chuo Trust and Banking -- to negative from stable.
It attributed the downgrading to serious asset quality problems, and said that their respective earnings, existing capital and reserves might not provide a sufficient cushion to absorb new loan-loss provisions.
British Telecommunications admitted on Thursday to not sharing the same culture as its merger partner MCI Communications, America's second largest international carrier.
But after reporting robust third quarter profits, helped by "healthy" demand for its products and services, BT's chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield told reporters, "We are open minded that these things (mergers) have their pitfalls on culture."
Commentators have dubbed BT "staid" and MCI "spunky". But Bonfield said MCI staff he had met so far had been "amazingly enthusiastic" about the two companies' planned $20 billion merger, which BT expects European and American regulators to clear by this autumn.
After a 39 million pound ($64 million) charge for redundancies, BT's third quarter pretax profits rose to 909 million pounds ($1.45 billion) from 829 million pounds last time -- towards the upper end of analysts expectations.
BT announced last October that it planned to buy the 80 percent of MCI that it did not already own. The new group, called Concert Plc, aims to service multinational companies end-to-end and be represented in all the world's key nations.
BT also hopes to become the second telecoms operator in continental Europe as key markets are eased open to competition in 1998 and is itching to get into lucrative Asian markets.
BT has one of the most comprehensive network partnerships across Europe, having set up joint ventures in about eight continental European markets worth more than $140 billion.
In a move to boost its German venture, BT announced that Norwegian telecoms operator Telenor had agreed in principle to take a 10 percent stake in VIAG InterKom, the alliance BT has set up with German engineering conglomerate VIAG AG.
Telenor brings with it vital expertise from operating in one of the world's most saturated markets for mobile telephones. Having won a mobile and fixed-line licence in Germany, BT said VIAG InterKom would be the first major telecoms copany to exploit the convergence between the two services.
In December, BT beat arch-rivals Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom by clinching a deal with TeleDanmark in Switzerland's second telecom network Newtelco.
While global telecoms groups jockey for position in a race to secure lucrative services to multinational companies, Japan is seen as the last major frontier.
BT has been wooing Japan's Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp, the world's biggest telecoms titan, for years.
While NTT takes its time to decide how best to enter the international market, BT's finance director Robert Brace told Reuters that the group did not expect an MCI-type deal in the Asian telecoms markets "in the next few years".
"I think we will continue to develop on a global basis as and when the opportunities arrive," he said.
Bonfield, who was in Japan last week, said NTT was too big a company to risk linking up with a single company.
"But it may come up with a preferred partner -- and we would like to be that partner," he said. BT, which already has a technology agreement with NTT, is keen to use the $150 billion group's lines to sell its Concert services to business clients.
BT's share price, which has surged to new year highs of 450p in the run-up to results, seesawed despite what SocGen's analyst John Tysoe called "a good, cheerful presentation".
Tysoe has edged up his full year forecast to a pretax profit of 3.2 billion pounds, largely because of a 50 million pound reduction in the level of expected redundancy charges.
BT saw net cash inflow swell to 4.4 billion pounds in the first nine months and has now got a hefty 211 million pounds of funds on its balance sheet.
Europe's cocoa industry will shortly issue a draft contract document for increasingly popular loose-bean bulk cocoa shipment techniques, according to the head of the Dutch cocoa industry.
"We will put forward very shortly Netherlands Cocoa Association ideas on a bulk contract," Association Managing Director Louis Bensdorp told Reuters on the sidelines of a cocoa conference in Ivory Coast which began on Wednesday.
"We are in discussions with the AFCC (the French cocoa and coffee industry body) and the Cocoa Association of London," said Bensdorp. "It (bulk) requires changes in the contract conditions. We are thinking about how to write a new bulk cocoa contract for mega-bulk." he added. The contract would be on cost, insurance and freight (CIF) terms.
Mega-bulk, an industry term for the recent trend of loading cocoa ships with loose beans rather than 60 kilo jute bag-loads, gained favour after trial shipments from the Ivory Coast in 1996.
Another bulk technique involves pouring beans into containers packed with drying agents to prevent water condensation damage as ships steam from tropical origin to consumer country climates.
"It has revolutionised the industry," Bensdorp told Reuters. "We will receive 250,000 tonnes to 300,000 tonnes of cocoa at Amsterdam this year but next year we expect 350,000," he added. Amsterdam is Europe's cocoa processing hub.
Labour and time savings, as well as better quality, favoured the growth of bulk techniques.
"There is a struggle to keep costs down and bulk means everything is cheaper," said Bensdorp. Quality was better because of tighter origin port quality checks than for bagged cargo and selection of quality ships, he added.
One problem was that bulk ships could not get close enough to some Amsterdam receivers unloading facilities, meaning costly road transport by container trucks.
"I think containers are an intermediate step," said Bensdorp. "In future it will be done by transhipment to barges," he told Reuters at cocoa sector reform talks ending on Friday.
Bensdorp said large Amsterdam-based industry processors, including Cargill subsidiary Gherkens and Dutch processor Cacao de Zaan, still dominated demand for bulk.
"Soon you will see more bulk going into Hamburg and Hull " said Bensdorp. British trader E D and F Man has a new processing plant in Hull.
Bulk cocoa is not tenderable on London's LIFFE terminal market.
"It is useless to set up a separate exchange in Amsterdam so we have to find a way of doing it through LIFFE," said Bensdorp.
Cocoa exporters and receivers in Ivory Coast have put in place bulk loading facilities at both Abidjan, and the second Ivorian port, San Pedro port.
Ivory Coast's largest cargo forwarder, SAGA, told Reuters it plans raise bulk loading rates from 40 tonnes an hour to 100 tonnes to match rising demand for the technique.
Local exporters and European industry officials expect Ivory Coast to ship 270,000 tonnes in bulk in the 1996/97 (Oct-Sept) season, mainly to Amsterdam. West African shipments could reach well over 300,000 tonnes.
Ivory Coast exported aboput 120,000 tonnes of bulk cocoa in its record 1.2 million tonne output 1995/96 season.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Delegates to Ivory Coast's cocoa Consultative Committee focused on bean quality and marketing on Thursday, the mid-point of their review of industry reforms.
"I would prefer to get down to talking about cocoa quality and continuity of supply," Cacao Barry managing director Alain Leblond said before the second day of the talks, which end on Friday.
Ivory Coast's Consultative Committee, a tripartite group of Ivorian, industry and donor officials, was set up in 1996 to monitor cocoa sector reforms since 1990.
After opening the talks on Wednesday, International Cocoa Organization Chief Executive Edouard Kouame said changes must benefit farmers and other local players.
"At the same time the legitimate interests of others in the sector must be safeguarded," he added, referring to foreign traders, cocoa butter manufacturers, and chocolate and confectionary industries.
An electronic export contract auction set up in May 1996 to increase market transparency is widely seen as encouraging overbidding and concentrating export contracts in a few hands.
Local exporters, allocated 85 percent of contracts, and foreign traders, allocated 15 percent, have complained they cannot win export contracts at favourable prices.
"The question needs to be asked how some people can bid as much as they have (been bidding)," Cocoa Association of London Chief Executive Philip Sigley told Reuters.
Industry concerns have been voiced about quality since the state marketing monopoly was ended.
"Quality has to do with liberalisation and the auction system," Netherlands Cocoa Association Managing Director Louis Bensdorp told Reuters. "The lack of quality checks is the major problem. That and the second thing, the education of farmers."
Industry watchers are wondering whether strong arrivals so far in 1996/97 means that output will rival the 1995/96 (Oct-Sept) record of 1.2 million tonnes.
"There is a very good crop coming in which suggests that last year was not a fluke of nature," said Bensdorp.
Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauze declined to confirm whether buoyant cocoa arrivals would mean an adjustment of the Caistab state marketing board's 1996/97 production forecast of 950,000 tonnes. Industry forecasts are increasingly putting total output at more than one million tonnes.
Industry delegates said mid-crop forecasts for April to September had not yet been finalised.
"It is still too early to talk about the mid-crop but it tends to be bigger and bigger," said Bensdorp.
Ivory Coast wants to process 50 percent of its output by 2000 to shore up world prices and add value the cocoa sector's output.
At least two cocoa processors have expressed interest in building factories in Ivory Coast.
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Hong Kong people seemed to forget politics and other worries as the tiny colony geared up to welcome the Year of the Ox, its last Lunar New Year celebrations under British rule.
With the clock ticking towards transition to Chinese sovereignty at midnight on June 30, Hong Kong's 6.3 million people took time out from hectic schedules for the Chinese equivalent of a western Christmas or American Thanksgiving.
Last-minute shoppers dashed through malls, record numbers of travellers flowed across the border to visit relatives in China and children threw empty red "lai see" money pockets at each other on Hong Kong harbour's Star Ferry.
"Kung Hei Fat Choi, may you be rich and make more money," said resident Ng Chak Kwong. "Everybody wants this to be a good year. Too many people worry about everything."
But the cheerful greeting cards, office towers ablaze with lights, strings of red firecrackers and little orange trees offered few clues to Hong Kong's real state of mind on New Year's eve.
This year's festivities were set against a backdrop of rising political tension after China's recent pledge to roll back some civil liberties laws following the handover, plans that sparked an outcry both at home and abroad.
The Democratic Party, the territory's largest party, collected 20,000 signatures opposing the plans while the international community lodged official protests with China.
Chinese Vice-Premier Qian Qichen said on Wednesday Hong Kong's return to the motherland would end "the disgrace and humiliation China has suffered from for more than 150 years".
Chief Executive-designate Tung Chee-hwa, the man who takes over from colonial Governor Chris Patten after the handover, last week defended Beijing's proposed changes as misunderstood, but few were convinced.
Patten, in a televised new year address, said he would leave Hong Kong with "a good deal of nostalgia, a good deal of feeling for one of the finest places in the world, one of the greatest cities in the world".
"I'm sure that Mr Tung -- when he becomes Chief Executive... will be committed to doing all he can to keep things that way," he said.
Most Hong Kong people seemed determined to ignore politics during the holiday. Four days of parades and fairs were planned, and spectacular fireworks were to light up the sky on Saturday.
According to Chinese astrologers, the coming year offers Hong Kong plenty of promise but obstacles as well.
Unlike Western astrology, where months of the year are grouped into separate star signs, Chinese astrology hinges on the year of birth.
That could mean bad news for Tung, who was born in 1937, the Year of the Ox.
According to the astrologer at the South China Morning Post newspaper, Tung faced a difficult year marked by envy and accident and he was advised to seek compromise.
"He is likely to be caught between Hong Kong people and the Chinese government and may be the object of envy by mainland officials," warned astrologer Sung Siu-kwong.
Patten, born under the sign of the Monkey in 1944, was warned about the emergence of a rival in mid-year and cautioned to draw a line between private and public involvements.
"He will need to overcome obstacles that can stand in the way of the glorious withdrawal," Sung said.
The Florida judge in a class-action suit against tobacco groups Thursday allowed one of the pioneering case's lead smokers to take a back seat in the upcoming trial after he complained of intimidation.
Stanley Rosenblatt, the lawyer pursuing the class-action suit on behalf of all ill and addicted smokers in Florida, said in Dade County Court that Arthur Reeves had been one of the original six smokers in the suit filed three years ago but did not want to take a prominent role as a witness in a trial scheduled for Sept. 8.
"He feels he has been greatly embarrassed and humiliated by investigators going out and asking neighbours and relatives and people he hasn't seen in 30 years about him," Rosenblatt said.
The lawyer gave no details in court, but said at a news conference Wednesday that private investigators working for tobacco companies routinely checked the backgrounds of people opposing them in court and potential trial jurors.
Rosenblatt asked Dade County Circuit Court Judge Alan Postman to allow another smoker, throat-cancer victim Frank Amodeo of Orlando, Fla., to be substituted for Reeves.
Amodeo said Wednesday he began smoking at 14, more than a decade before the health dangers of smoking were known, and that he has tried to stop smoking repeatedly. He still smokes and takes liquid nourishment through a feeding tube, since he can neither eat nor drink.
Rosenblatt said Reeves was not withdrawing from the suit, an option any ill smoker in Florida can choose, but would not act as a representive of the 500,000 potential claimants Rosenblatt has estimated his suit covers.
Reeves would share in money awards, if any, secured through the trial. The case appears likely to be the first to come to trial of a dozen or more class-action suits filed by smokers against tobacco companies.
Rosenblatt claims that tobacco companies such as Liggett Group, RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., Loews Corp. and the Brown &amp; Williamson unit of B.A.T Industries conspired for decades to hide medical evidence damaging to their businesses and mislead Americans about the dangers of smoking.
A lawyer for Philip Morris Cos. Inc. said that allowing the switch just months before trial was unfair.
The lawyer, Philip Heim, said he had no knowledge of Reeves' complaints. "I don't know anything about him being allegedly harassed," Heim said.
The Clinton administration is making a $36 billion bet in its new budget that companies will rush to pay big bucks for a chunk of the airwaves to roll out newfangled communications services to the public.
As a part of the bet, the administration is wagering it can overcome major political forces, such as TV broadcasters, opposed to aggressive plans for selling spectrum.
Experts are split on whether the wager will pay off.
To finance its fiscal 1998 budget, the White House proposed Thursday to raise $36.1 billion by selling licenses to firms wanting to sell new ways to link to the Internet or send video images through the air, among other things.
The administration also proposed to auction toll-free 888 phone numbers instead of giving them away.
The White House, however, offered few details about its grand auction plan, which covers the five years through 2002.
Many economists think the $36 billion is achievable because of the large amounts of spectrum still available and the rush by companies to develop new products incorporating the Internet and other communications services.
"There's a lot of unmet demand for frequencies that can be used to offer new services," said James Gatusso of Citizens for a Sound Economy, a free-market advocacy group.
"A lot of people are coming through the front door of the Federal Communications Commission asking for spectrum."
Among the new services that could be rolled out in the future over newly available spectrum: high-speed wireless access to the Internet or mobile video services that allow drivers to download maps or traffic pictures in their cars.
Critics charge that any aggressive bid to sell spectrum to companies that want to use it for any purpose will backfire by driving down airwave prices and hurting companies -- such as wireless phone providers -- that already hold licenses.
"What they will do is drive the price of spectrum to zero and therefore kill the goose that lays the golden egg," said Tom Wheeler, president of the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, an industry trade group representing cellular carriers and other wireless phone providers.
Since 1994, the FCC has raised about $23 billion through 12 spectrum auctions for wireless cable television, satellite TV, a new generation of cellular phones and other services.
The White House proposed four auctions to raise:
-- $700 million through the sale of 888 phone numbers.
-- $17.1 billion by extending and broadening the FCC's auction powers to sell spectrum not used by TV stations.
-- $3.5 billion to sell part of the airwaves now occupied by TV channels 60-69. The channels would be made available through the transition to high-definition digital TV.
-- $14.8 billion through the sale of the analogue spectrum now occupied by TV broadcasters. The frequencies also would become available in the transition to digital TV.
The administration wants to speed up the return of the analogue spectrum to the government by requiring stations to return it by 2005. The auction would be held in 2002.
But broadcasters want to postpone any auction.
"We remain opposed to upfront auctions or accelerated giveback of broadcast spectrum. We expect the government will receive full value for spectrum once the broadcast industry transition to digital is complete," said Dennis Wharton, a spokesman for the National Association of Broadcasters.
The NAB supports an FCC plan for an approximately 15-year transition to digital broadcasts.
Britain's largest insurance group Prudential Corp has become early favourite to win the auction for Scottish Amicable after its 1.9 billion pound ($3.0 billion) bid for the mutually owned life assurance group.
Industry analysts said the offer, which uses excess capital in the Pru's 50 billion pound life fund, will make it difficult for rivals to compete and may have delivered a knockout blow to Abbey National's hopes of buying ScotAm.
Pru shareholders are also likely to be pleased with the finacial engineering which has gone into the offer. Only 250 million pounds is coming from shareholders funds and Prudential shares added 12 pence to 566 pence on Thursday as the market digested the details of the deal.
The Pru's offer contains elements of both the Abbey bid and ScotAm's own flotation proposals but it is in its structuring that the deal may have stolen a march and narrowed the field of potentials bidders.
The 400 million pound bonus in cash and shares matches Abbey's payout but the Pru says it will add another 150 million pounds to policies as soon as practicable and pay a minimum additional 250 million pounds when policies mature.
It also says it will pay 1.1 billion pounds into ScotAm's life fund - a loan from its own life fund, allowing investments in equities to be increased, which historically have provided the best returns.
The Pru will close ScotAm's life fund to new business, the existing free assets which it estimates to be at least 400 million pounds, will no longer be required to write new business and so can be paid out to ScotAm policyholders.
"The deal returns all the working capital to policyholders which under the Abbey deal would have been retained in the fund to write the new business. For others to replicate that is difficult," said one industry analyst.
Other potential bidders such as the Halifax building society, National Westminster Bank, Belgian-Dutch financial services company Fortis, Dutch firms ING Groep and Aegon may now be having second thoughts about throwing their hats in the ring.
Only a couple of the stronger life companies mentioned as potential acquirors could come up with a similar structure.
Australian Mutual Provident which also has substantial excess capital in its life fund could in theory do so.
"I would struggle to name another one," said an analyst.
But Abbey, whose 1.4 billion pound offer last week sparked the bidding war is likely to find it very difficult to compete.
It lacks the capital strength in its life funds to readily replicate the Pru deal and would probably have to turn to external capital to raise its bid substantially, said analysts.
"Abbey could match the Pru's offer. Whether it would be sensible is another issue. It's hard to match and satisfy its own shareholders that its in its best interests." said one
The Pru may also hold the advantage it terms of the benefits accruing from a ScotAm acquisition.
There would be less overlap in the businesses than Abbey which already owns Scottish Mutual and it would lift the Pru's exposure to the independent financial adviser market (IFA).
Abbey has yet to detail its offer but said yesterday after the Pru's approach that once it had access to full financial information it was sure its final offer would be extremely attractive to ScotAm's policyholders, management and staff.
Industry analsysts, however, were sceptical that Abbey after setting the ball rolling in the battle for control of ScotAm, it could manage to compete with the Pru's financial muscle.
Ameritech Corp. won an important endorsement Wednesday from Michigan regulators in its bid to become the first Baby Bell to offer long-distance telephone service from its local calling region.
The Michigan Public Service Commission voted to advise the Federal Communications Commission that it appears Ameritech has met a 14-point checklist for opening its local phone network in the state to new competitors -- such as AT&amp;T Corp. and other companies wanting to offer local phone service.
That checklist was spelled out under last year's big communications law as a condition for local carriers to offer long-distance service from their regions.
"We're extremely disappointed with this decision. It seems to ignore the overwhelming evidence that Ameritech faces no viable local telephone competition in Michigan," said an AT&amp;T spokesman. An Ameritech spokesman was not available.
The FCC will make the final determination on whether Ameritech has indeed met the technical checklist for entry into the $78 billion long-distance market.
But a negative review from Michigan would have dimmed the Chicago-based carrier's prospects considerably. The Justice Department must issue a recommendation to the FCC by Feb. 21.
Ameritech asked the FCC on Jan. 2 for permission to provide long-distance service to residents in Michigan, one of five Midwestern states in which the company provides local phone service. Ameritech has 3.5 million customers in Michigan.
Long-distance carriers such as AT&amp;T and MCI Communications Corp. have called on regulators to reject Ameritech's request, saying the company has not yet opened its local market fully to competitors.
The Michigan commission said that in a 2-1 vote among commissioners the agency authorised the filing of its comments in the Ameritech case with the FCC.
"For many years, the Michigan Public Service Commission has supported allowing expanded choice for telephone customers," said commission Chairman John Strand.
"Our comments today are designed to assist the Federal Communications Commission to follow a course that will introduce more competition in the telecommunications marketplace."
After filing its initial request with the FCC, Ameritech was forced to amend its application with an additional 1,500 pages of documents. Regulators had determined that many needed pages were missing.
Other Baby Bells are expected to ask the FCC for similar approval soon.
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp on Thursday reported a lower than expected profit for the first half of 1996/97, but later told analysts it remained confident of a 20 percent profit boost for the full year.
Strong earnings from the hit movie Independence Day and buoyant British newspaper sales helped drive net profits before abnormals 10.3 percent higher to A$731 million (US$555 million).
But the result was below analyst forecasts of a pre-abnormals profit of A$735 million to A$775 million.
"Everyone's a bit disappointed," said a Sydney analyst.
Andrew Sekely, the head of equities at broker Intersuisse, said: "It certainly wasn't a startingly good result. The market has made its judgement". News' shares fell 16 cents to A$6.60 after the result, but closed in Australia at A$6.76.
"It's about A$20 million less than what the market would have liked and to still reach that (20 percent profit growth) outlook, it's got to make up the difference in the second half," the Sydney analyst said.
News Corp had said in August last year when it posted a A$1.26 billion net profit for the year to June 30, 1996 that it expected strong movie and television revenues to increase profits by at least 20 percent in 1996/97.
News Corp told analysts in a teleconference briefing on Thursday after the first half result that it still expected 20 percent profit growth for 1996/97.
"They did say that they're still on track for the 20 percent growth," another Sydney media analyst said after the briefing between company officials and U.S. and Australian analysts.
Analysts said News Corp officials were bullish about catching up in the second half and had pointed to a strong outlook for movies and U.S. television and newspapers.
Operating income from News' Fox Filmed Entertainment unit surged to A$202 million for the first half of 1996/97 from A$84 million a year earlier, due largely to Independence Day.
Analysts said the re-release of Star Wars and other films would help further boost movie revenues in the second half.
British newspaper profits rose 18 percent in the first half, with gains in circulation revenues at The Sun, The Times and The Sunday Times, News Corp said.
"All of the company's newspapers have maintained their dominant position in each of their respective markets, despite cover price increases instituted during the quarter at both The Sun and The Times," the company said. Analysts said British newspapers would again perform well in the second half.
In contrast, Australian newspapers posted only a slight increase in profit in the first half reflecting a slow economy.
While News Corp said losses at its burgeoning Asian satellite broadcaster Star TV in the first half were in line with expectations. (A$=US$0.76)
Rupert Murdoch's News Corp on Thursday reported a lower than expected profit for the first half of 1996/97, but later told analysts it remained confident of a 20 percent profit boost for the full year.
Strong earnings from the hit movie Independence Day and buoyant British newspaper sales helped drive net profits before abnormals 10.3 percent higher to A$731 million (US$561 million).
Abnormal losses of A$41 million cut final first half profits down to A$690 million from A$702 million a year earlier.
But the result was below analyst forecasts of a pre-abnormals profit of A$735 million to A$775 million.
"Everyone's a bit disappointed," said a Sydney analyst.
Andrew Sekely, the head of equities at broker Intersuisse, described the result as moderate.
"It certainly wasn't a startingly good result. The market has made its judgement," Sekely said. News' shares fell 16 cents to A$6.60 after the result, but closed in Australia at A$6.76.
"It's about A$20 million less than what the market would have liked and to still reach that (20 percent profit growth) outlook, it's got to make up the difference in the second half," the Sydney analyst said.
News Corp had said in August last year when it posted a A$1.26 billion net profit for the year to June 30, 1996 that it expected strong movie and television revenues to increase profits by at least 20 percent in 1996/97.
Murdoch repeated the forecast in October, but the group has been publicly tight-lipped about it since then and its first quarter results were also lower than expected.
However, News Corp reassured the analysts in a teleconference briefing after the first half result, saying that it still expected 20 percent profit growth for 1996/97.
"They did say that they're still on track for the 20 percent growth," another Sydney media analyst said after the briefing between company officials and U.S. and Australian analysts.
Analysts said News Corp officials were bullish about catching up in the second half and had pointed to a strong outlook for movies and U.S. television and newspapers.
Operating income from News' Fox Filmed Entertainment unit surged to A$202 million for the first half of 1996/97 from A$84 million a year earlier, due largely to Independence Day.
Analysts said the re-release of Star Wars and other films would help further boost movie revenues in the second half.
Sharply lower television profits in the first half because of lower ratings from News' Fox television network and higher programming costs surprised analysts.
But analysts expect a rebound in revenues from Fox television in the second half due to a successful Super Bowl broadcast and the new hit animated comedy King of the Hill.
British newspaper profits rose 18 percent in the first half, with gains in circulation revenues at The Sun, the Times and The Sunday Times, News Corp said.
"All of the company's newspapers have maintained their dominant position in each of their respective markets, despite cover price increases instituted during the quarter at both The Sun and The Times," the company said.
Analysts said British newspapers would again perform well in the second half. "Regardless of what's happening with volumes and prices, which are looking quite good, the relative position on paper prices is improving," said First Pacific media analyst Lachlan Drummond.
In contrast, Australian newspapers posted only a slight increase in prodit in the first half reflecting a slow economy.
While News Corp said losses at its burgeoning Asian satellite broadcaster Star TV in the first half were in line with expectations. (A$=US$0.76)
Rupert Murdoch's global media group News Corp Ltd reported a lower than expected first half profit on Thursday, but later told analysts it remained confident of a 20 percent profit boost for the full year.
News said strong earnings from the hit alien movie Independence Day and buoyant U.K. newspaper sales helped drive up net profits before abnormals 10.3 percent to A$731 million.
But this was below analysts' expectations of a pre-abnormals net profit for the half of A$735 million to A$775 million.  
"Everyone's a bit disappointed," said one senior Sydney analyst who asked not to be named.
Andrew Sekely, the head of equities at broker Intersuisse, described the result as moderate.
"It certainly wasn't a startingly good result. The market has made its judgment," he said. News' shares fell 16 cents to A$6.60 in the hours after the result.
"It's about A$20 million less than what the market would have liked and to still reach that (20 percent profit growth) outlook, it's got to make up the difference in the second half," the Sydney analyst said.  
News had said in August last year when it posted a A$1.26 billion net profit for the year to June 30, 1996 that it expected strong movie and television revenues to increase profits by at least 20 percent in 1996/97.
Murdoch repeated the forecast in October, but the group has been publicly tight-lipped about it since then and its first quarter results were also lower than expected.
However News reassured the analysts in a teleconference briefing after the first half result, saying that it was still on track for the 20 percent profit growth.
The profit forecast was not in the formal release.  
"They did say that they're still on track for the 20 percent growth," another Sydney media analyst said after the morning teleconference briefing between company officials and U.S. and Australian analysts.
Analysts said News Corp officials were bullish about catching up in the second half and had pointed to the continued strong outlook for movies, U.S. television and newspapers.
Operating income from News' Fox Filmed Entertainment unit surged to A$202 million for the first half from A$84 million a year earlier, due largely to Independence Day.  
"U.S. results were led by Fox Filmed Entertainment which posted a 154 percent gain in operating profits reflecting the continued success of Independence Day," News Corp said.
Analysts said the re-release of Star Wars, among others, would help further boost movie revenues in the second half.
"It's pure profit in the second half, whereas they had costs to write off in the first half," said another analyst.
Strong revenues from News' Fox television network and its Fox stations would also help second half profits.
"They did very well over the Super Bowl and they've got a new hit with King of the Hill," said an analyst.  
U.K. newspapers would again perform well in the second half, analysts said. British newspaper profits rose 18 percent in the first half, with gains in circulation revenues at The Sun, the Times and The Sunday Times.
"All of the company's newspapers have maintained their dominant position in each of their respective markets, despite cover price increases instituted during the quarter at both The Sun and The Times," News said.
News said losses at its burgeoning Asian satellite broadcaster Star TV were in line with expectations but no figures were released. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
A festive calm settled over Hong Kong on Thursday as people prepared to welcome the Year of the Ox, the territory's last Lunar New Year celebration under British rule.
With the clock ticking towards transition to Chinese sovereignty at midnight on June 30, Hong Kong people took time out from hectic schedules for the Chinese equivalent of a Western Christmas or American Thanksgiving.
Last-minute shoppers dashed through malls, record numbers of travellers flowed across the border to visit relatives in China and children threw empty red "lai see" money pockets at each other on Hong Kong harbour's Star Ferry.
"Kung Hei Fat Choi, may you be rich and make more money," said Ng Chak Kwong. "Everybody wants this to be a good year. Too many people worry about everything."
But the cheerful greeting cards, office towers ablaze with lights, strings of red firecrackers and little orange trees offered few clues to Hong Kong's real state of mind on New Year's eve. This year's festivities were set against a backdrop of rising political tension after China's recent pledge to roll back some civil liberties laws following the handover, plans that sparked an outcry both at home and abroad.
The Democratic Party, the territory's largest party, collected 20,000 signatures opposing the plans while the international community lodged official protests with China.
Chief Executive-designate Tung Chee-hwa, the man who will take over from colonial Governor Chris Patten after the handover, last week defended the proposed legal changes as misunderstood, but few were convinced.
Some of the families gathering for traditional New Year banquets on Thursday night said they would watch a televised annual address by Patten, even though the British influence is already considered virtually irrelevant.
The last New Year's address by a British colonial governor could provide Patten with an ideal opportunity to lambast old foes in Beijing.
"What he says has no effect any more," said shopper Alice So. "What he says, what he did, what he's going to do, the Chinese government will not accept. It doesn't matter whether he's right or wrong."
Most Hong Kong people seemed determined to ignore politics during the holiday. Four days of parades and fairs were planned, and spectacular fireworks would light up the sky on Saturday.
According to Chinese astrologers, the coming year offered Hong Kong plenty of promise but obstacles as well.
Unlike Western astrology, where months of the year are grouped into separate star signs, Chinese astrology hinges on the year of birth.
That could mean bad news for Tung, who was born in 1937, the Year of the Ox.
According to the astrologer at the South China Morning Post newspaper, Tung faced a difficult year marked by envy and accident and is advised to seek compromise.
"He is likely to be caught between Hong Kong people and the Chinese government and may be the object of envy by mainland officials," warned astrologer Sung Siu-kwong.
Patten, born under the sign of the Monkey in 1944, was warned about the emergence of a rival in mid-year and cautioned to draw a line between private and public involvements.
"He will need to overcome obstacles that can stand in the way of the glorious withdrawal," Sung said.
Ivory Coast must boost quality controls, improve farmer training and market different grades of cocoa separately, to retain its quality image, Netherlands Cocoa Association (NCV) head Louis Bensdorp said on Friday.
"Ivory Coast produces extremely good cocoa but somewhere along the line the bad 10 percent is bringing down the quality of the rest," NCV Managing Director Bensdorp told Reuters in an interview.
"Quality is the name of the game but it is easily lost."
Amsterdam, Europe's cocoa processing hub, imports cocoa mainly from Ivory Coast and increasingly in bulk form.
Bensdorp was speaking as Ivorian Consultative Committee cocoa sector reform talks continued. Cocoa quality and teething problems with a new export contract auction system have topped the agenda.
"There is a total lack of quality control," Bensdorp said, outlining three corrective measures he put before International Cocoa Organization, industry, donor and Ivorian government committee delegates.
He cited an urgent need for quality checks at all stages of the marketing chain and an increased role for farmers' cooperatives in training and quality checks.
"The third quality issue is what I call government interference," said Bensdorp. "The government has in the past said the mid-crop (April-Sept) would be kept off the market. In practice that means it is kept in upcountry stores."
Poor storage meant a risk of middlemen mixing deteriorated cocoa and smaller beans usually seen in midcrops with the larger main crop (Oct-Mar) beans preferred by industry for its higher fat content.
"About 15 to 17 percent of chocolate is cocoa butter so it is very important for the shelf life of products," Bensdorp said, adding that long storage and poor quality bean pushed free fatty acid levels above the European legal food standard of 1.75 percent.
"There is no specific trade condition on free fatty acids so we as an industry are thinking about what to do with existing cocoa bean contracts (to change that)," he said.
"That does not necessarily mean a free fatty acid clause but we need better checks on quality than we have today," he added.
"Good cocoa should be separated from bad cocoa and sold separately. There is a market for everything."
Ivory Coast has in the past announced it would withold mid-crop cocoa and process it at home to add value to its cocoa exports.
"Usually it is mixed in with main crop cocoa," said Bensdorp. He said poor quality at the end of the 1995/96 season had partly been due to a flow of cocoa from farmers in the southwest who were using a new hybrid tree but who lack the expertise of farmers in the less productive but long-standing eastern plantations.
Bensdorp said buyers of bulk cocoa, increasingly favoured by some processors over cocoa in jute bags, had put in place their own origin port quality checks. Most of these buyers were Dutch.
Consultative Committee president Philippe Mian, technical advisor to Ivorian Prime Minister Daniel Kablan Ducan, told Reuters more checks from village level downwards were needed.
"The only administrative control is at the port of loading," he said. "We are now preoccupied with quality and there have been discussions with who should be responsible for contracts, the industry or the state."
Other delegates feared that cocoa in Ivory Coast's full-to-capacity warehouses could deteriorate if not shipped by March.
Stocks have risen as exporters who bid too high for export contracts wait for better prices.
"I do not see the auction as the cause of quality problem but the rules have been discussed," said Bensdorp.
Ivory Coast's Caistab marketing board has pulled back from a monopoly internal and external marketing role and closed upcountry buying centres and quality checkpoints.
Export contracts are now allocated by auction as part of a donor-sponsored market liberalisation policy.
--Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Toronto stocks closed on a firmer note on Friday, boosted by a party in the bond market and strength in the heavily weighted banking and gold sectors.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index rose 29.85 points to reach 6101.74, with 111 million shares traded worth C$1.74 billion ($1.29 billion).
North American markets surged after the release of the U.S. January jobless rate. It edged up to 5.4 percent from 5.3, providing indications that the job market has not tightened enough for employers to bid up wages and that the Federal Reserve may not raise interest rates.
Bonds rallied dropping yields, so Canadian investors fled to the high-yielding Toronto stock market.
"It's acting on any piece of news," said Montreal-based strategist Bill Ram.
Advances inched ahead of declines 507 to 490 while another 276 traded flat.
Of Toronto's 14 sub-indices, banks rose the most, adding two percent to hit a new high of 5972.59 points. Other strong groups were consumer products, golds and base metals.
The weaker side included conglomerates, oils and pipelines, which kept Toronto from jumping as high as Wall Street. The Dow Jones Industrial Average soared 82.74 points to 6855.80.
Over the course of the week Toronto's stock exchange retraced its steps from a new lifetime high of 6159.18 points on Wednesday to today's close.
Among active issues, food services firm Cara Operations Ltd. class A rose 0.05 to 4.15 on three million shares after announcing positive third quarter results yesterday.
Viceroy Homes Ltd. shares lost more than half their value, falling 5.40 to 5.00 after reporting lower than forecast fourth quarter earnings today. Net income for the quarter plunged 61 percent to C$409,000 ($300,740).
Royal Bank of Canada, the nation's largest, rose 1.40 to 52.40 on more than 1.7 million shares. Shares in the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the second biggest, gained 1.35 to 64.60.
African robusta producers will meet discuss to export limit quotas on February 26-27 after a January world agreement in Rio de Janeiro to shore up prices, Ivory Coast's Commodities Minister told Reuters on Friday.
Gauze, who is also chairman of the Interafrican Coffee Organisation, gave no venue details but said African robusta exporters would afterwards seek to meet other producers.
"There will be a meeting to decide how to divide export limits between African producers," said Gauze. "The meeting will be for two days, on February 26 and February 27," he added.
"We will then call on other producers for a meeting," he said without giving agenda details.
Gauze on February 5 called off talks in Bali with Asian robusta producers.
The world Association of Coffee Producing Countries (ACPC) decided on January 23 to cut robusta exports by one million bags (60 kg) after low prices seen in late 1996.
The limitation was expected to be shared between African and Asian producers.
"The talks have been postponed," Gauze said after returning to Ivory Coast to attend cocoa sector reform with International Cocoa Organisation and donor officials.
Indonesian officials told Reuters export cut sharing between Africa and Asia had not been discussed as the Bali meeting.
Gauze said African producers would discuss how to divide Africa's export limitation share, which he said was 850,000 bags, between exporting countries.
IACO chief economist this week delined to comment on African sharing arrangements saying the decision was an internal IACO matter.
Indonesia has decided to reduce its exports by 150,000 bags in the January to June 1997 period covered by the volutary export restraint.
ACPC members are concerned that rising production from non-ACPC member such as Vietnam will undermine their own export restraint policy.
Indonesia's ACPC representative Paian Nainggolan said informal discussions had taken place after Gauze cancelled his trip. No ACPC export cut sharing cut talks took place, he said.
Ivory Coast, Africa's largest exporter, expects to produce 230,000 tonnes in 1996/97 but local quality inspectors say quality problems mean not all of it will be exportable.
--Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Ivory Coast will only market its midcrop cocoa (April-Sept) if world price levels are right, Ivory Coast Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauze said on Friday after a three-day cocoa sector review.
"We will market the midcrop if prices are right," he told Reuters at the end of a Consultative Committee cocoa review with International Cocoa Organisation, industry, donor and Ivorian officials.  
Cocoa stocks around Ivorian ports in January filled warehouses to a capacity estimated by trade sources to be close to 400,000 tonnes.
Cocoa futures in London LIFFE terminal market trading slumped to 18-month lows on February 6. May contracts were trading at 871 stg but by Friday's close had edged up to 886 stg after an afternoon high of 893 stg.
Traders noted slowing origin selling activity.
Ivory Coast's midcrop is usually of poorer quality than main crop cocoa, tempting some buyers to mix it in with main crop cocoa to get a better price. Industry buyers say this undermines quality.
The meeting of Ivory Coast's cocoa Consultative Committee reviewed sector reforms ranging from quality, export contract auction rules, security of supply for buyers and farmgate prices paid to farmers.
Industry delegates said they wanted better quality controls put in place after market liberalisation, separate marketing of good and bad grades of cocoa and rules to prevent overbidding at auctioning of export contracts.
Ivory Coast aims by the year 2000 to process 50 percent of an annual cocoa output at home and wants to stabilise its production at 900,000 tonnes.
Midcrop forecasts for 1996/97 are still not clear as flower survival rates after dry weather have not been assessed.
Pod counters said initial prospects seemed good after early pod setting on hybrid trees in south-west Ivorian plantations around San Pedro.
Ivory Coast produced an unexpectedly large 200,000 tonne midcrop in a record 1995/96 season of 1.2 million tonnes.
"It would be unwise for the government to interfere in a crop of this size," said one industry delegate. "The government has said in the past it would withold midcrop and has then used it."
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90 (c) Reuters Limited 1997
The Florida judge in a class-action suit against tobacco groups Thursday allowed one of the pioneering case's lead smokers to take a back seat in the upcoming trial after he complained of intimidation.
Stanley Rosenblatt, the lawyer pursuing the class-action suit on behalf of all ill and addicted smokers in Florida, said in Dade County Court that Arthur Reeves had been one of the original six smokers in the suit filed three years ago but did not want to take a prominent role as a witness in a trial scheduled for Sept. 8.
"He feels he has been greatly embarrassed and humiliated by investigators going out and asking neighbors and relatives and people he hasn't seen in 30 years about him," Rosenblatt said.
The lawyer gave no details in court, but said at a news conference Wednesday that private investigators working for tobacco companies routinely checked the backgrounds of people opposing them in court and potential trial jurors.
Rosenblatt asked Dade County Circuit Court Judge Alan Postman to allow another smoker, throat-cancer victim Frank Amodeo of Orlando, Fla., to be substituted for Reeves.
Amodeo said Wednesday he began smoking at 14, more than a decade before the health dangers of smoking were known, and that he has tried to stop smoking repeatedly. He still smokes and takes liquid nourishment through a feeding tube, since he can neither eat nor drink.
Rosenblatt said Reeves was not withdrawing from the suit, an option any ill smoker in Florida can choose, but would not act as a representive of the 500,000 potential claimants Rosenblatt has estimated his suit covers.
Reeves would share in money awards, if any, secured through the trial. The case appears likely to be the first to come to trial of a dozen or more class-action suits filed by smokers against tobacco companies.
Rosenblatt claims that tobacco companies such as Liggett Group, RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., Loews Corp. and the Brown &amp; Williamson unit of B.A.T Industries conspired for decades to hide medical evidence damaging to their businesses and mislead Americans about the dangers of smoking.
A lawyer for Philip Morris Cos. Inc. said that allowing the switch just months before trial was unfair.
The lawyer, Philip Heim, said he had no knowledge of Reeves' complaints. "I don't know anything about him being allegedly harassed," Heim said.
Lloyds TSB Group kicks off the UK bank reporting seson on February 14 and, despite trading at big premiums to the sector, is still favoured by analysts because of what they see as a well-positioned business mix.
Lloyds is expected to weigh in with over 2.4 billion stg in pre-tax profit and dividend per share of as much as 13p, accompanied by the highest return on equity in the sector at around 32 percent. In 1995, Lloyds TSB made 1.65 billion stg.
The bank's new chief executive Peter Ellwood will give voice to his plans for the group as he takes over from Brian Pitman.  
But with Pitman still at the bank as chairman, analysts are not concerned there will be a radical change of strategy.
David Poutney, banking analyst at Panmure Gordon, says he expects Lloyds TSB to make a pretax profit of 2.45 billion stg and pay a dividend of 12.6p per share. "The key thing is to see how the cost-cutting is coming through," Pountney said.
He estimates that savings from the 1995 merger between Lloyds and TSB will only have been between 75 and 100 million stg in 1996 but these will rise to 350 million stg in 1998 and the bank will be saving a further 50 million stg a year from its buyout of the minority of Lloyds Abbey Life.  
These transactions have taken Lloyds TSB's tier one capital ratio down to an expected six percent or just over and analysts say there will be little scope for the group to return capital until the second half of this year.
Even then, the bank seems to favour returning value through more generous dividends than through share repurchases, said John Leonard, banking analyst at Salomon Brothers.
Leonard expects a pretax profit of 2.456 million stg and a dividend payment of 12.6p per share, and he sees strong earnings growth at least for the next three years.  
Strategically in its core UK retail financial services business, Lloyds TSB wants to expand its life assurance presence, analysts said, and may do this by acquisition.
The current bidding battle for mutually-owned Scottish Amicable will give a pointer as to the price that Lloyds might have to pay for such an expansion.
Increasing its life assurance business would mean that Lloyds TSB continues to follow the strategy of building up the low-risk element of its earnings and an income stream that is both stable and high quality.  
In the figures for the second half of 1996, analysts expect to see evidence of continued growth in consumer lending and a bigger market share in mortgages, although the group is thought to have been less aggressive on the latter front in the second six months. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864.
A bumper crop of results from the six major British banks which start their reporting season next week should take aggregate pre-tax profit comfortably above 12 billion stg for 1996 from just over 10.8 billion stg in 1995.
Analysts also expect some of them to return surplus capital to shareholders, either in the form of share buybacks or generous dividend payments.
Leading the way on February 14 will be Lloyds TSB Group which, despite trading at a big premium to the sector, is still favoured by analysts because of its business mix.  
The bank's new chief executive Peter Ellwood is expected to give voice to his plans for the group as he takes over from Sir Brian Pitman.
Lloyds is expected to weigh in with over 2.4 billion stg in pretax profit and dividend per share of about 13p, accompanied by the highest return on equity at around 32 percent.
Next on the agenda will be Barclays on February 18, when many analysts are expecting another chapter in its series of share buybacks. The bank has already spent over 1.0 billion stg on these in the last 18 months.  
Profits are expected to rise to a consensus expectation of around 2.39 billion stg compared to 2.08 billion in 1995.
Barclays is expected to show strong growth in businesses like Barclaycard and consumer lending but its investment banking unit BZW, which has had a year of upheavals, could disappoint.
Barclays will be followed by the very different Standard Chartered, the London-based bank with a strong Far East franchise.
Some analysts have cut their earnings estimates slightly but StanChart's pretax profit is still seen rising to around 870 million stg from 661 million last time.  
Growth in consumer banking in Asia will be tempered by the decline in the dollar, a possible small upturn in costs and the sale of its profitable private banking unit last year.
A dividend of 14 or 15p per share is seen after 11p in 1995.
HSBC Holdings, the other London-based bank with huge Far East interests and the most profitable bank in the group, reports on March 3.
HSBC, which brings together Britain's Midland Bank, Hongkong Bank, Hang Seng Bank, and Marine Midland in the U.S., is expected to post pretax profits of some 4.6 billion stg after 3.67 billion in 1995.  
Dividend per share is seen rising to around 40p from 32p the previous year.
HSBC is also expected to have been affected by the recent strength of sterling but will show profit gains in all its regions and units, with analysts bullish for the potential still to be unlocked in Asia.
National Westminster Bank, unlike HSBC, has a much stronger focus on investment banking and has spent a lot of money building up its NatWest Markets unit with several acquisitions and other investment.  
This has led to nervousness among investors and the shares underperformed the rest of the sector last year.
NatWest reports on February 25 and is expected to post pretax profits of 1.1 to 1.2 billion stg -- after disposal losses and exceptional asset write-downs -- and a full year dividend of 29p.
Many analysts also expect a further repurchase of shares.  
Finally, Abbey National, in the news currently because of its bid for mutual life assurance firm Scottish Amicable, reports on February 27 and is expected to show pretax profits of around 1.15 to 1.16 billion stg (after 1.03 billion in 1995) and a dividend of around 26p compared to 21.75p.
The Abbey's capital position has led to talk of a share buyback but the management is against this because of the large number of small shareholders on the register.
A special dividend could be on the cards but most analysts expect the Abbey to continue its relatively generous ordinary dividend policy.  
The figures are likely to have been helped by some growth in the mortgage market and by a good rise in consumer lending. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864.
Toronto stocks ended weaker in light trading on Thursday, swept lower by a downdraft in the oil and gas sector.
Toronto's key 300 Composite Index fell 40.52 points to 6071.89. Trading was lackluster at 107.3 million shares worth C$1.4 billion ($1.04 billion).
"Toronto committed suicide," said portfolio manager Josef Schachter. "The oils and golds ... got clipped and took the market lower," he said.
Oils took a beating after March Nymex oil lost US$0.81 today to close at US$23.10 a barrel. The TSE's energy group surrendered 172 points, leading 11 of 14 sub-groups lower.
The heavyweight gold sector also fell along with softer bullion prices in New York. Comex April gold lost US$1.30 to close at US$345.10 an ounce.
The three strong sectors were real estate, transportation and retailing.
Declining stocks edged out advances 545 to 402 while 276 issues were unchanged.
Schachter said he expected the downdraft to continue for the next few sessions, pulling the Canadian market down by another 100 points. However, oil stocks may bounce back if the rest of the North American winter remains cold and demand for energy improves.
Among active stocks, oil producer Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. fell 1.95 to close at 34.25 on 2.6 million shares.
Food services firm Cara Operations Ltd. topped Toronto's most-active list. Its class A stock gained 0.35 to close at 4.10 on 6.6 million shares after reporting stronger third quarter earnings.
Among active golds, Barrick Gold Corp. fell 0.60 to close at 35.25 on 1.7 million shares.
Shivering icewine enthusiasts, battered by icy winds, headed into a snow-covered vineyard on a recent night to harvest one of the world's rarest wines.
Although Germany discovered the luscious dessert wine in the late 18th century, Canada is the world's largest producer of icewine -- capturing many international awards and helping shed an industry reputation for screw-top plonk that neither amuses nor has any pretentions.
If you can find it, this "liquid gold" can cost up to C$200 ($150) a bottle in icewine-crazy Japan -- four times the price in Canada. Japan is by far the biggest export market, but China and South Korea are also developing a taste for it.
But on this cold winter night a cup of piping hot coffee could fetch a better price than any chilled wine. "It's cold, hard work. You're outside in the dark picking frozen grapes and wondering why you're not asleep like normal people," Greg Berti, general manager of Hillebrand Estates Winery, said on a recent midnight tour of Hillebrand's icewine fields.
Most of the Canadian vintage comes from the Niagara wine region where 24 wineries produced 29,700 gallons (112,500 liters) in 1995. That is up 57 percent from 1994 but paltry compared to the eight million gallons (30 million liters) of regular wine produced yearly in Ontario, Canada's most populous province.
Some California wineries produce sweet wines but they are shunned by icewine purists because the grapes are artificially frozen. "Their wine is interesting, but it's not in the same league as icewine," Berti said.
IT MAY BE RARE BUT IT TASTES LIKE PEACHES
Although Niagara wineries say their products are unique in taste, icewine is generally amber or golden in colour with a full-flavored taste similar to honey, apricots or peaches. It is thicker than regular wine, with an alcohol content of about 10 percent, compared to 40 percent for a cognac or brandy.
Canada exports icewine to Germany, Denmark, Hong Kong, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States. China and Korea are also emerging markets. But the biggest buyers are Japanese tourists who flock to the Niagara region by the busload -- snapping up several bottles of icewine after a visit to nearby Niagara Falls.
Hillebrand sells about 75 percent of its icewine to Japanese who tour its winery. "Their image of Canada is Banff, Anne of Green Gables and Niagara Falls, and icewine fits in with that image," Berti said.
Last summer, a group of 74 Japanese race horse owners descended on another Niagara winery and drove off with more than $10,000 worth of icewine. "They came into the winery, sampled, bought and were back in their bus in 45 minutes," recalled Debi Pratt, director of public relations for Inniskillin Wines Inc.
ALMOST AS HARD TO PRODUCE AS GOLD
It takes every grape from an entire vine to yield enough juice to make one bottle of icewine -- 10 times the amount used to make regular wines. Many grapes are lost to hungry birds, hail or harsh winter winds before they are picked.
But Canada has plenty of what is needed most to make icewine -- consistently cold weather.
The grapes -- hardy Vidal or Riesling varieties -- must be picked off the vine when temperatures are well below freezing.
Most wineries set aside part of their vineyards in October when the regular wine harvest ends. By mid-December or early January the shriveled grapes have turned a brownish hue and pickers are on call, waiting for the right weather.
Berti said Mother Nature has sometimes forced crews to pick on Christmas Eve or New Year's Eve -- although that did not happen this year.
"The wind is the biggest problem. Every hour or half hour we take a break for hot coffee and donuts," Gregory Synos, a six-year veteran of the icewine harvest, said.
The grapes are sorted and rushed to the winery where presses work into the night. The juice then goes through several weeks of fermentation, followed by a few months of ageing in oak barrels to smooth out the acidity and tanins in immature icewine.
Although Hillebrand has tried to modernise the process by using special presses and protective netting for the grapes, Berti conceded: "There is nothing efficent about it. You have to get into the fields when the getting is good."
Ontario Finance Minister Ernie Eves, buoyed by a stronger economy and an improving deficit outlook, said on Thursday his budget-paring knife would not cut as deep this year.
"I would say that the majority of the cost-cutting exercise this government has to do is behind us," Eves told reporters after delivering a fiscal update for the third quarter ended December 31.
Ontario's 1996/97 deficit is now pegged at C$7.67 billion for the year ending March 31, down C$508 million from Eves' original budget forecast. Ontario is Canada's most populous province and industrial powerhouse.
Barely four months ago, Ontario's ruling Conservatives said a further C$3 billion in spending cuts would be needed to balance the budget by the turn of the century.
Since sweeping to power in 1995 promising a "Common Sense Revolution", the Conservatives have identified about C$8 billion in cuts through the end of the decade.
With the economy now improving, Eves said: "I don't feel that I am now driven to find C$3 billion in more savings."
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce has predicted Ontario's economy would pick up steam this year despite government cutbacks. The economy was forecast to grow 3.1 percent this year and 2.3 percent in 1998, compared to 1.7 percent in 1996.
But Eves said the province's deficit fight was far from over and he was still seeking "cost efficiencies" for the upcoming 1997/98 budget this spring.
"I don't want anybody to think we don't have a problem. We still have a C$7.7 billion problem on annualized basis in the province of Ontario," he said.
Government revenues grew faster than projected in the third quarter, up almost C$1.2 billion to C$47.8 billion for the year. Most of the increase was due to higher than expected personal, corporate and retail sales tax revenues resulting from a stronger economy, Eves said.
He said the government's controversial 30 percent tax cut had helped boost consumer confidence in Ontario. About half of the tax reduction has been implemented, with the remaining 15 percent due by 1999.
Eves said he had not ruled out speeding up that timetable, but that the government had a lot on its plate.
Last month, the Conservatives unveiled sweeping reforms that would fundamentally alter the roles of provincial and local governments in everything from health care and social spending to road maintenance and sewage.
The most controversial move is a proposed merger of Toronto, Canada's biggest city, and five surrounding municipalities, which has drawn fierce opposition from some local politicians and businesses.
CIBC said the provincial government would better its fiscal targets after downloading services such as welfare and transit to municipalities. Toronto is a potential loser under the plan because it has a large share of the province's welfare cases.
Eves said the government would push forward with its plans and on Thursday he doubled the government's restructuring fund to C$1.8 billion.
"I think people realize we can't operate in 1997 the way we operated in 1957 in the province of Ontario. There is a transition and that transition costs money," he said.
Australia has been warned it risks losing face in Asia if it takes its overseas radio and television services off air, as mooted in an official report.
The report's recommendation that the government close its state-owned short-wave service, Radio Australia, and sell off its fledgling satellite broadcaster, Australia Television, have been condemned as near sighted and harmful to Australia's image.
"The recommendation that was made was one of the most stupid I have ever come across in my life," Mark Dodgson, an expert on Australian business ties with the region, said on Friday.
"They are absolutely critical for Australian foreign policy and for business and to cut them off for the sake of such a small amount of money is ridiculously short sighted."
Dodgson, of the Australian National University, is not alone in warning Australia risks losing face with its near neighbours.
Already, Papua New Guinea has offered to take a cut in Australian aid if this money could be used to ensure Radio Australia's future. The service is often the only source of regional news in the mountainous and isolated Pacific country.
A former chairman of Australia's national broadcaster and the opposition have also attacked the recommendations, designed to help the government slash its budget deficit.
The report, prepared after a government-ordered review of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), called on Canberra to drop its requirement that the ABC provide overseas broadcasts in favour of better funded local services.
Australia Television, set up four years ago by then Labor prime minister Paul Keating as part of his government's Asian embrace, has so far accumulated losses of about A$7.0 million, an industry source told Reuters.
Radio Australia, set up decades ago under the control of the foreign ministry, airs mainly around the Asia-Pacific in seven Asian languages and English. It costs taxpayers about A$25 million per year, the source said.
Both are operated by the ABC and place heavy emphasis on news and current affairs. They aim to present an "Australian face" to the region and to raise Australia's profile in Asia.
No decision has been made on Radio Australia's future until the ABC and the government discuss the recommendations, but Canberra has begun the process of selling Australia Television.
A merchant bank, Turnbull and Partners Ltd, said it had received 50 expressions on interest in taking over Australia Television's assets. These include the remaining four years of a five-year lease on the Indonesian owned Palapa C2 satellite.
Australia Television, which is received in 33 countries across the region, has an option for another five-year lease.
If the station cannot be sold, the government has been urged to shut it down. But Communications Minister Richard Alston has said he personally believes this is unlikely.
In the event of a sale, it is unclear whether Australia Television will remain a window on the nation, offering such obscure programming as Australian Rules Football coverage. One media analyst says it is a commercial dud in its current form.
"Australians will all suffer if the ABC deserts international broadcasting," former ABC chairman Mark Armstrong wrote in a newspaper column this week.
"We will be less known and less respected by our neighbours...Our country will lose face in Asia."
Former industry minister Peter Cook, an opposition senator, said the demise of Radio Australia or Australia Television would be another setback for Australia in the region, especially so soon after a flare-up of anti-Asian sentiment here.
"Our public face has suffered terribly and a cut or a change of this sort will be misunderstood in that context," Cook said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 612-9373-1800
Schroders Plc, one of the great British merchant banks, on Friday delivered record half-year profits along with a warning that conditions for its businesses may become more uncertain.
"Although the second half has started reasonably well, it will not be easy to match two successive record half years," the the bank said while posting a first-half pretax profit of 115.9 million pounds ($181.5 million) compared to 85.6 million in 1995.
"With elections imminent in the U.S. and UK and with equity markets in those countries testing all-time highs, conditions for our businesses may become more uncertain," Schroders added, sending its shares spinning lower.
Schroders, which lifted its half year dividend 33 percent to 6.0 pence -- the top-end of forecasts -- said the environment for the financial sector had been benign, with financial markets, banking and leasing the major contributors to profits.
Analysts expected the merchant bank, whose shares have seen some hot money thrown at them as bid speculation refuses to die down, to report pretax profits of 106-125 million pounds.
But although first-half results were in line with forecasts, Schroders' shares dived 57.5 pence lower to 13.90 pounds as the market took stock of the company's cautious outlook.
"Talk about uncertain business conditions is not what investors wants to hear," noted one London market-maker.
Some analysts warned that they may scale back profit forecasts despite a healthy growth in profits at Schroders' investment banking arm.
The division saw profits rise to 50.7 million pounds from 41.7 million and Schroders said it had gained a number of prominent new clients. Earnings from its securities businesses in North America and Europe grew "satisfactorily", but activity in Asia/Pacific operations was more subdued, it stated.
The merchant bank's asset management division was boosted by a strong inflow of new businesses and total funds under management rose 13 percent to 83.4 billion pounds.
Schroders said it had built up an "outstanding performance record" in emerging markets, adding that a significant proportion of new business inflow related to new appointments to manage funds in emerging markets.
Pretax profit at the division jumped to 65.2 million pounds from 43.9 million in the same period last year, partly reflecting a delay as profits from new funds feed through.
Some analysts say Schroders' controlling family holding may hinder a takeover. But others believe that the bank may not be able to hang onto its independence for more than two years as the desire for fresh capital for its investment banking arm becomes overwhelming.
This could either lead to a full-scale merger or as a tie-up such as the one brokered between merchant bank Rothschild and ABN Amro, analysts say. ($1=.6385 Pound)
The recent Asian tour by U.S. fund managers representing $234 billion in assets, including the hefty California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS), has whetted Hong Kong fund managers' appetites.
"CalPERS has this innate ability of raising everybody's blood pressure because they've got so much money to invest. Get one percent and you double your assets under management," said Stewart Aldcroft, sales director for Templeton.
But it appears Hong Kong fund managers might be waiting in vain for a slice of the CalPERS pie.
While expressing a desire to raise their Asian and international weightings, the United States pension funds clearly stated a preference for direct investment over listed equity.
"The amount of transparency that we would expect with the companies is not available at this point," CalPERS board president William Crist said of Chinese public companies.
His statement highlighted a significant problem for U.S. money managers seeking increased exposure to Asia.
Foreign access to Asian markets is usually restricted, partly because many countries fear the sort of economic disruption that widened current account deficits after the last wall of foreign money came marching into the region in 1993.
Hong Kong fund managers, pointing to research indicating superior Asian performance by funds managed from within the region rather than from outside, said one option that could meet everybody's needs is private equity funds.
The performance of these funds is private but believed to far exceed that of public mutual funds.
Marcus Thompson, deputy managing director of HSBC Private Equity Management, said his funds hold $560 million, virtually all of it contributed by U.S. pension funds and invested in small companies expected to list within 10 years.
"Over the long term you're likely to get a superior investment performance," Thompson said. "There's a discount for not being able to trade the stock."
Cesar Zalamea, managing director of AIG Investment Corp (Asia) Ltd, declined to reveal the performance of his funds except to describe it as "tremendous".
AIG is the biggest private equity group active in Asia, with $2.38 billion under management -- nearly all of it rumoured to be contributed by one or two very big U.S. pension clients.
Zalamea said AIG's policy is always to hire Western-educated nationals who know the culture and the players in the indigenous business community. Established in Shanghai in 1919, AIG also has long-term relationships with many Asian corporations.
"When these (Asian corporations) decide they want to expand and invite investors outside family and close friends, we are naturals to be invited because (they) already know us," Zalamea said. "CalPERS wouldn't have the kind of relationship."
But there are disadvantages to private equity funds, the most obvious being their closed-end and long-term nature.
"One of the key issues about investment is to have your money back when you're ready to have it back, not when those in whom you are investing want you to have it back," said Aldcroft, who candidly admits Templeton wants to manage CalPERS money.
Another fund manager warned that while many venture capital funds do very well, others do not.
"The risk is higher. You don't have an out. The trick is in knowing how to say no," he said. "If you haven't picked the right companies, how do you get out?"
The various sectors of the U.S. financial services industry will spar over bank reform proposals at a hearing on Tuesday before the House Banking Committee's subcommittee on financial institutions.
With most in Congress and industry ready to scrap the Depression-era laws separating banking from other financial services, one of the hottest topics is likely to be whether even broader reform is required.
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin is considering a proposal to allow combinations between commercial and financial firms.  
While savings institutions and insurance companies can already own or be owned by non-financial companies, banks operate under much tighter restrictions.
A Treasury Department task force recommended that the administration's bank reform proposal, expected in about a month, allow mixing of commerce and banking, permitting Ford Motor Co or Microsoft to own Citicorp or BankAmerica.
Rubin told a group of bankers at a private meeting last week that the administration has not yet made a decision on the contentious issue, people familiar with the meeting said.  
The high-level private-sector group, known as the Federal Reserve's Federal Advisory Council, also met with House Banking Committee chairman Jim Leach last week.
Leach, who strongly opposes mixing commerce and banking, told the group of CEOs that their banks could be taken over by larger capitalized companies.
"They'll be at the working end of the food chain," Leach reportedly told the bankers according to one person familiar with the meeting. Spokesman for Leach and Rubin declined to comment on the meetings.  
At Tuesday's hearing, insurance and savings groups will oppose restrictions on commercial and financial combinations. The mutual fund industry also opposes restrictions.
Small banks, represented by the Independent Bankers Association of America, will take the opposite position, in favor of imposing legal barriers.
Federal Reserve officials, along with some consumer, agricultural and union groups favor restrictions but will not be heard from on Tuesday. The Fed will testify on Thursday along with other government agencies, while consumer gropups will testify at a Feb 25 hearing.  
The AFL-CIO recently sent a letter to the Clinton administration charging that allowing unlimited mergers would drag the U.S. economy back into the 19th century with a "reinstatement of trusts and monopolies," a person who read the letter said.
Leading Democrats, including ranking minority members of House and Senate banking panels Rep Henry Gonzalez and Sen Paul Sarbanes, also favor restrictions.
Not all Republicans agree with Leach and the Democrats. Rep. Marge Roukema, chairwoman of the financial institutions subcommittee, has introduced a bill that would allow financial companies to do 25 percent of their business in non-financial markets.
And in the Senate, Banking Committee chairman Alfonse D'Amato has opposed restrictions and plans to introduce his own bank reform measure soon.
Rep Gonzalez is likely to raise questions about the possible risks to federal deposit insurance funds, some lobbyists said. Gonzalez has said conglomerate combinations should have limited access to deposit insurance.
((--202-898-8312))
Toronto's stock market drifted lower in moderate trading to close softer on Monday, weighed down by a battered oil and gas sector despite firmer bank issues.
The key 300 Composite Index fell 20.47 points to end at 6081.27 in trading of 93.9 million shares worth C$1.4 billion ($1.04 billion).
"The energy sector's the one that got clipped here," said fund manager Josef Schachter.
The oil and gas group lost almost 2.4 percent and led eight of Toronto's 14 sub-indices south.
Other falling sectors included conglomerates, transportation and golds. The stronger side was led by consumer products, heavily weighted banks and pipelines.
Wilf Gobert, Peters &amp; Co. analyst, said several factors hit energy issues including weaker oil prices for most of Monday, recent news that Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. will cut back on production soon and Canadian 88 Energy Corp.'s failure to take over Morrison Petroleum Ltd.
In a surprise move Canadian 88 said on Sunday that it withdrew its hostile bid for Morrison Petroleum.
Declines raced ahead of advances 456 to 362 while another 283 traded unchanged.
Schachter forecast that Toronto's weakness was only short term. "This is just a buying opportunity."
Energy stocks were heavily traded on Monday. Morrison shares lost 0.35 to end at 9.65 on half a million shares while Canadian 88 slipped 0.25 to 5.15 on 1.1 million shares.
Poco Petroleums Ltd. lost 0.30 to reach 13.75 on more than two million shares.
Pacalta Resources Ltd. managed to buck the falling trend, gaining 1.45 to hit a new high of 12.90.
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. topped Toronto's gainers after rising 3.50 to 299.00.
Australia's Foster's Brewing Group Ltd toasted local beer drinkers on Monday for a strong rise in pre-tax earnings, but losses in Canada and China took some fizz out of the half-year result.
Foster's announced a 13 percent rise in pre-tax earnings to A$185 million (US$140.6 million) for the six months to December 31, due largely to what it called a sparkling performance by its home brews.
Carlton and United Breweries (CUB), the group's domestic brewer and earnings powerhouse, recorded an 11.5 percent surge in profit before interest and tax.
"CUB's performance was, again, an absolutely outstanding feature of the result -- a sparkling performance, if you will excuse the pun," Foster's chief executive Ted Kunkel said.
CUB, which brews Australia's best-selling beer, Victoria Bitter, now commands 55 percent of the local beer market, up from 53 percent a year ago, Kunkel told reporters.
But CUB's performance was partly overshadowed by Foster's 40-percent-owned Molson Breweries, which was responsible for lowering the group's bottom line to A$169.4 million, just 2.4 percent up on the first half of 1995/96.  
"The result was mixed," Kunkel said of the Canadian brewer's performance.
Foster's booked a A$20 million abnormal loss for restructuring costs at Molson, which Kunkel said was beginning to arrest a slide in its share of the Canadian beer market.
The loss, partly offset by smaller profit windfalls in the period, may not be the last from Molson. Foster's is braced for more abnormal losses after Molson late last year lost an arbitrated dispute with Coors Brewing Co.
A Canadian arbitration panel ruled that Molson had breached an agreement to brew and sell the U.S. brewer's brands.
The financial fallout is uncertain, but Kunkel said on Monday it was unlikely to be severe.
"The arbitration panel did not set what the likely level of damages will be, so it's just impossible to tell what they may be," he said. A new licensing deal is being negotiated.
Also, Foster's Chinese operation continued to trade in the red, racking up A$10.2 million in losses in the first half from its joint-venture breweries in Guangdong, Shanghai and Tianjin.
But it said Chinese revenue and sales volumes rose in the first half and that the operations in China were on track to break even in around 1999/2000.  
Foster's plans to further expand in Asia and will enter other markets in the region in 1997.
"In Asia, we are close to establishing production in one or two markets, and we will be aiming to do so as quickly as possible as part of or broader Asian strategy," Kunkel said.
Kunkel gave no details, but he has said in the past that Foster's is eyeing India and Vietnam.
Foster's first-half result was roughly in line with stock market expectations, but the China losses raised some eyebrows.
"China is eating their profits elsewhere. The other (units) have to make a pretty good performance to offset that all the time," said Macquarie Equities analyst Raewyn Ellis-Doff.
Foster's share price ended 11 cents lower at A$2.54 on Monday, falling with the market as it tumbled in late trade.
(A$1 = US$0.76)
Australian-based Foster's Brewing Group Ltd reported on Monday a small rise in interim net profit, but the bottom line result hid a strong performance from the group's home brews.
Foster's posted a 2.4 percent increase in net earnings to A$169.4 million, after booking a A$5.6 million abnormal loss.
The loss was due mainly to ongoing restructuring costs of the group's 40 percent owned Canadian brewer, Molson Breweries, and concealed a 10 percent rise in pre-abnormal net earnings to A$168 million.  
Foster's chief executive Ted Kunkel largely attributed the rise in pre-abnormal earnings to a "sparkling" performance from the group's domestic powerhouse, Carlton and United Breweries (CUB), in the six months to December 31.
"CUB had a four percent increase in the volume of beer sold, a remarkable result in a beer market which rose only 0.6 percent," he said in a statement.
CUB, which has taken a commanding market lead in Australia over chief rival Lion Nathan, contributed A$187.4 million in earnings before interest and tax, a rise of 11.5 percent over the first half of 1995/96 (July/June).  
The group result came in at slightly below the average forecast for first-half profit of around A$170 million.
The share price dipped a few cents after the announcement, but a Sydney broker said the stock was also moving to the tune of speculation Foster's may buy back the 37 percent stake held by resources giant The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.
BHP indicated on Sunday it was in no hurry to sell its Foster's investment. Foster's shares were trading at A$2.60 at 0325 GMT (14.20 p.m.), down five cents on Friday's close.  
Foster's said it expected earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) to be higher in the year to June 30 than the A$371 million reported in 1995/96, but that interest costs and the re-emergence of tax liability on Australian income would have an impact on the overall earnings for the 1996/97 year.
But Foster's said losses at its brewing operation in China widened in the six months ended December 31, 1996.
Foster's said its China operations recorded a loss before interest and tax of A$10.2 million in the first half compared with a loss of A$6.8 million in the 1995/96 first half.  
It said revenues in China for the half rose to A$20.9 million up from A$15.9 million a year earlier, with volumes sold rising to 539,000 hectolitres compared with 392,000 hectolitres.
Foster's wine unit, Mildara Blass, contributed A$33.4 million in earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) on sales of A$115.5 million, while its Rothbury Wines acquisition, completed in July 1996, was on track to achieved targeted first year earnings growth.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-2 9286-1421
Hong Kong fund managers and life insurers are smacking their lips in anticipation of a very promising pie -- Hong Kong's public pension plan.
Although much uncertainty still hangs over the proposed Mandatory Provident Fund (MPF), Hong Kong-registered pension assets could triple if MPF regulations are passed by July 1, the date China reassumes sovereignty over the British colony.
"By any measure, this is a very substantial market," said Terry Smith, chief executive at National Mutual Asia.
Life insurer National Mutual Asia, 69-percent owned by Australia's National Mutual Holdings, is just one insurance company with its eyes on a market traditionally dominated by a handful of large Hong Kong-based fund managers.
"If a particular company were to get 10 percent market share, it would involve the receipt of contributions of HK$3 billion (US$385 million) per annum," said Smith.
"To put that in perspective, NMA's current premium and contribution revenue is about HK$5 billion (US$641 million)."
Hong Kong pension assets are now valued at about HK$100 billion (US$12.82 billion), nearly all held in government and corporate funds such as those belonging to the Swire Group, the Jardine Group, Hongkong Electric, Hongkong Telecom and the Hong Kong Jockey Club.
If MPF regulations are approved, those assets will reach HK$300 billion (US$38.46 billion) within five years with annual contributions projected at HK$30 billion (US$3.85 billion), independent adviser Watson Wyatt Hong Kong Ltd said.
Until now, Hong Kong's Big Three fund managers -- HSBC Asset Management, Schroders Investment Management and Jardine Fleming Investment Management -- have dominated the pension scene.
HSBC has US$3.5 billion under management while Schroders, a unit of British investment bank Schroders Plc, manages US$2.5 billion. Jardine Fleming manages US$2.2 billion.
Smaller participants who hope to play a bigger role include Fidelity with US$1 billion, LGT Asset Management, a unit of Liechtenstein Global Trust AG  at US$500 million, and Barclays Global Investors and Invesco with about US$350 million each.
But insurance companies such as NMA and Hong Kong's insurance market leader, American International Assurance, are in a strong position to challenge these fund managers.
Ninety percent of Hong Kong companies employ fewer than 10 people, which will give the insurers' extensive sales and distribution networks the sort of advantage that could quickly build into a stranglehold on the new market.
"Most employers will see MPF as a real pain in the neck. It's a hassle where formerly they didn't have hassle," said Andy Budden, investment consultant with Watson Wyatt.
"What they will want to do is buy an off-the-shelf product rather than put something together themselves. The advantage will lie with the provider who can get on the street and sell."
The market will also be snapped up in the first few years, he said, which explains why these companies are working hard to become the first out of the starting gate.
"Once this initial tranche of business is snapped up, turnover and new business will be low," Budden said. "So you'll have an edge if you can get out quickly and market it."
Hong Kong's fund managers are sufficiently disconcerted that four of them -- Jardine Fleming, Schroders, LGT and Invesco -- are reported to be considering pooling administrative resources.
However, all this preparation could amount to a waste of time if the Legislative Council fails to enact subsidiary MPF legislation and regulations quickly.
Framework legislation has passed and the MPF office said it hopes to table the legislation by April. But some councillors are opposed to the principle of a public pension plan and have vowed to slow down the process.
Also, a number of regulations have roused debate, including a provision requiring the pensions to hold 30 percent of assets in Hong Kong-dollar denominated instruments.
If this provision holds, it will light a fire under Hong Kong's dormant debt market, which suffers from a government surplus and a negative real rate environment thanks to the Hong Kong dollar-U.S. currency link.
(HK$1=US$7.8)
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
The television industry's new ratings system is a bust and is rife with inconsistencies that make it tougher for parents to pick shows appropriate for kids, a conservative media watchdog group charged in a new study on Tuesday.
The Media Research Centre reviewed 150 hours of shows in the two weeks that ended Jan. 16 on six broadcast networks: ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC, UPN and WB. The study concluded the age-based system, which began airing Jan. 1, was confusing and contradictory.
TV officials said it was too soon to judge.
The study, for example, said 61 percent of shows got a middle-of-the-road TV-PG rating -- parental guidance suggested -- although about half of these shows contained obscenities while half did not.
Words such as "ass," "bastard," and "son of a bitch" were typical on PG shows, and while an obscenity for sexual intercourse was bleeped out three times, it was understandable when uttered, the study said.
It also charged there was no consistency within different episodes of a series. In an episode of CBS's "Moloney," a girl shot her uncle. The man fell over dead with no blood. That bloodless depiction drew a TV-14, for parents of kids under 14 strongly cautioned.
An episode a week later had a lesser PG rating even though it showed a bloody torture scene, the group said. In that episode a man put a razor blade in his wife's hand, then clasped the hand between his own and squeezed it violently, forcing the blade into her hand and causing the hand to bleed.
"After only a few weeks of the new system, it is apparent that those who said it would never work were right," said Brent Bozell, chairman of the Media Research Centre.
Bozell told a news conference the system "is a failure and should be junked at the earliest possible opportunity."
Others from the opposite end of the political spectrum said the study's findings backed their own view.
"You can't tell what the content of the shows are from the ratings," said Kathryn Montgomery of the Centre for Media Education, a children's advocacy group.
A number of groups representing lawmakers, parents, children's advocates, educators and others believe this system is too vague and advocate a content-based system that would specify violence, sex and strong language, using letters such as V, S and L.
The current ratings have two categories for children: TV-Y, children of all ages, and TV-Y7, children 7 and older.
Aside from TV-PG and TV-14, the other two categories are: TV-G, suitable for all ages; and TV-M, for mature audiences only.
TV industry officials stressed that their system was still in its infancy and that it was too early to draw conclusions.
"The television industry's parental guidelines system is barely 42 days old. Before its critics attempt to kill it in the cradle, it should be given a fair chance to establish itself," said Martin Franks, CBS Inc. senior vice president.
Congress was expected to hold hearings later this month on the system's effectiveness.
The debate over reforming America's financial services sector, a top priority for Congress and the Clinton administration, began in earnest Tuesday.
As major industry representatives sat down at a House Banking subcommitee hearing on two pending reform bills, word came that Senate Banking Committee Chairman Alfonse D'Amato, R.-N.Y., had introduced his own version of comprehensive reform.
The bills introduced so far, as well as an administration proposal expected late next month, begin with the same premise: the time is right to scrap the Glass-Steagall Act enacted during the Depression to separate banking from other financial activities like securities underwriting and insurance.
Most in Congress agree. And, for the first time, most financial service company seem to agree as well.
At the hearing of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, representatives of banking, insurance, securities and mutual funds all agreed Congress should allow a single entity to span all financial services businesses.
But, as subcommittee Chairwoman Marge Roukema, a New Jersey Republican, observed, "The devil is in the details."
Those who had opposed tearing down Glass-Steagall, mainly insurance and securities companies, have seen federal courts and regulators slowly roll back the law -- but only for banks.
Last March, the Supreme Court freed banks from many state insurance restrictions.
The Federal Reserve also decided to allow banks to derive up to 25 percent of a subsidiary's revenue from securities activity, an increase from the previous limit of 10 percent. In November, the comptroller of the currency said he would start allowing national banks to enter a host of non-banking businesses.
Banks got substantial new authority, but others got nothing.
"For too long, important policy issues have been addressed by regulatory agencies or the courts rather than by Congress," Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. Vice President Roy Albertalli testified at the hearing. Albertalli spoke on behalf of the American Council of Life Insurance, which had opposed mixing banks and insurance.
All the proposals before Congress would level the playing field to some degree and recognise the changes that have shaken modern finance.
"This banking reform legislation will reform the current patchwork of laws and allow the market to operate freely within the financial services industry," D'Amato said as he introduced his bill.
While a broad consensus has been achieved, several important issues remain to be addressed. Perhaps the most controversial is the extent to which non-financial companies should be allowed to own or be owned by financial companies.
Under existing law, mutual funds, insurance companies and savings and loans can combine with so-called commercial firms while banks cannot.
Smaller banks and consumer groups staunchly oppose mixing the two, which would be permitted under the D'Amato bill, limited under the Roukema bill and forbidden under a bill introduced by House Banking Chairman Jim Leach, R.-Iowa.
Joseph Bracewell of the Indepedent Bankers Association of America laid out the opposition. Citing former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, Bracewell said such mergers could "distort lending decisions, be anticompetitive and threaten the safety and soundness of the banking system.
Banks said they could live with Roukema's compromise approach, but were undecided about the D'Amato plan. Others heartily endorsed the unlimited approach.
Mutual funds have been "knee-deep in affiliations" and "they've never proved a problem in 57 years," said Matt Fink, president of the Investment Company Institute.
Differences also remain regarding regulation of new, diversified financial services companies, although most favoured an approach having various, specialised agencies regulate the relevent portion of each firm's activities.
Australian insurance group National Mutual Holdings Ltd targeted China and Thailand as key markets on Tuesday as it fleshed out its role as the Asian arm of one of the industry's global heavyweights.
National Mutual, owned 51 percent by the recently expanded French insurance giant Axa SA, unveiled plans to double its representation this year in mainland China by opening three more local offices.
National Mutual is sweating over its application for an operating licence in China, along with other insurers eager for exposure to the most populous nation's emerging middle class.
"It is a key objective for the group and every effort is being made to obtain this licence," chairman Athol Lapthorne told National Mutual's annual meeting in Melbourne.
The group has applied to open offices in Wuhan, Dalian and Chengdu, initially to conduct market research. It already has offices in Shanghai, Guangdong and Beijing.  
National Mutual has been try to enter China for more than three years, during which it has signed a cooperation pact with Chinese insurer China Everbright-IHD Pacific Ltd and has donated HK$10 million (US$1.3 million) to set up a China education fund.
National Mutual and Axa, which recently merged with rival Union des Assurances de Paris (UAP), launched a US$500 million China investment fund in September.
National Mutual has also applied to operate in Thailand, and is eyeing market entry in India, Vietnam and the Philippines.
Thailand and India are both reopening their insurance markets to foreign competition for the first time in many years, National Mutual managing director Geoff Tomlinson said.
The company is considering taking a stake in an existing insurer in the Philippines, and is taking a long-term view on Vietnam, which now has "no real market to speak of", he said. He gave no details on any likely investment in the Philippines.
"We are focusing our attention clearly today on China and Thailand," Tomlinson told reporters after the meeting.
"The work we're doing in relation to India, the Philippines and Vietnam is getting acquainted with people and seeing how business is done (there)...," he said. National Mutual has aligned itself in Thailand with a local joint venture partner, the General Finance group, but its application for an operating licence has yet to be decided.
National Mutual said it was not fazed by the new Thai government's decision to review the criteria for awarding insurance licences, and expected a decision within six months.
"It's a fertile market," Tomlinson said.
National Mutual, which is still powered mainly by its Australia and New Zealand life office National Mutual Life, suggested it could become an overnight force in Asian funds management if it inherits the regional assets of Axa and UAP.
National Mutual's funds management arm has A$2.0 billion (US$1.5 billion) in assets under management in Asia and stands to boost this to A$7.0 billion (corrects from A$7.0 million) if the parent decides to make National Mutual its Asian funds management operation, the company said.
"We will wait till they finalise their merger over there and talks will begin progressively," said Sam Kavourakis, National Mutual Funds Management managing director.
(A$1=US$0.75, HK$1=US$7.74)
Internet access providers and others who met with Net-savvy lawmakers said they fear Congress will wreak havoc on cyberspace but are also heartened by the growing number of legislators who understand the global computer network.
Company representatives met Tuesday night at the Capitol with members of the Congressional Internet Caucus, about 85 legislators with a common interest in the Net, to express their hopes and fears about efforts to make laws governing cyberspace.
"I think it's inevitable that there will be bills introduced that attempt to legislate the content of everything on the Internet," Tom Evslin, vice president of AT&amp;T Corp.'s WorldNet Internet service, said after the meeting.
Evslin said it would be as difficult to keep Congress from making wrong moves as it would be to get the legislature to act to head off problems.
Bill Schrader, president of Internet provider PSINet Inc., was more blunt. "Be very careful or you will destroy this industry," he warned.
The members of Congress who attended the meeting pledged to try to protect the Internet.
"We have a lot of pretty tough work ahead of us," Rep. Rick White, R-Pa., and a co-chairman of the caucus conceded. "We have many, many issues coming down the pike from encryption to privacy, to copyright and taxation."
Encyrption is the use of software to encode and decode information.
Sen. Conrad Burns, also a co-chairman, warned that, despite the caucus, legislation will always trail developments in the private sector.
"The government making policy is never ahead of the curve," the Montana Republican said. "If we do the right thing now, I guarantee you that by the time it's passed and the president signs it, we'll be behind the curve."
Last year was a mixed bag for the Internet in Congress.
Legislators passed the Communications Decency Act, opposed by online companies and civil libertarians as an infringement on free speech rights, but also defeated measures that would have imposed liability on Internet providers for copyright infringement.
Sun Microsystems Inc.'s chief scientist, John Gage, fretted that, with only 85 pro-Internet legislators out of 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate, most in Congress remained ignorant of the Net. "We've got a long way to go," he said.
Companies interested in the Internet offered some conflicting goals for Congress. Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, urged the legislators to impose new laws protecting Hollywood products.
"Congress cannot avoid that all intellectual property has to be protected -- this can't be Dodge City without a sheriff," Valenti said. But he also praised the Internet as "the most valuable and spacious information greenhouse that's ever been built."
PSINet's Schrader countered that existing laws already protected movies, books and other works. "Everything is not new," he said. "It's the same-old, same-old."
British households are likely to pay less for water and get a better service from cash-rich privatised utility companies in the next decade, the industry regulator promised consumers on Wednesday.
Water watchdog Ian Byatt told privatised water companies -- whose bills and fat executive wages have fuelled vitriolic criticism from consumer groups -- that he expected them to pass on significant efficiency savings to customers in 2000.
"Lower costs mean falling bills," Byatt warned them in a letter setting out his proposed objectives and timetable for the price review, which will be completed in December 1999.
"At the next review, I will expect companies to demonstrate improving standards for their customers and efficiency gains will allow prices to come down in real terms, despite continuing capital investments," he said.
Byatt, who plans to call this summer for comments on his plans, will impose new price curbs on 29 water and sewerage companies in England and Wales from April 1, 2000.
A spokesman for the Water Services Association trade group said that lower bills depended on what new quality and environmental obligations were be set by Europe and Britain -- and how much needed to be spent on new water resources.
But the Ofwat National Customer Council consumer group said that in the absence of competition, it was looking to Byatt to take "the toughest action possible" to get water bills down.
"In my view, water companies have rewarded their shareholders handsomely but have treated their customers much more mean-spiritedly," said deputy chairman Clive Wilkinson. "Customers have had enough of big profits and rising dividends and, at best, being handed back the small change."
Water groups are the only utilities to have raised prices since privatisation in 1989, blaming costly infrastructure investments and new swimming and drinking water quality control directives from the European Union.
The opposition Labour Party, which is expected to levy a one-off tax on the profits of privatised utilities if it comes to power in the next election, is widely considered to have discovered one of the few "popular" taxes.
Headlines such as: "Like water off a duck's back" greeted Byatt's last review, which came into effect in 1995, as shares surged. Consumer groups charged that Byatt had been too lenient.
But Byatt said one of the new review's main aims would be to ensure that water companies' savings over the last five years should be quickly given to customers.
He also does not want spending on water quality, maintaining supplies and reducing leakage -- which sparked criticism during a drought in 1995 -- to be passed onto household bills.
Amid charges that regulators are out of touch with the industry and underestimate its cash-spinning powers, Byatt is mulling appointing senior industrialists to help find a balance between consumer bills and maintaining companies' efficiency incentives.
London's Thames Water charges the least for water -- not being responisble for any coastline. Average bills, at 180 pounds ($294) per year, are some 80 percent higher than in 1989.
Exeter-based South West Water, with its long coastline, has the highest bills at about 330 pounds per year -- a 121 percent rise -- according to 1995-96 figures. ($1=.6120 Pound)
Florida is stepping up anti-smoking efforts by barring cigarette promotions on state roads, forcing Marlboro to drop its name from thousands of banners promoting the Marlboro Grand Prix of Miami motor race.
New rules detailing limits on using banners to promote sports events, to be published on Friday, are due to take effect in early March, a Florida Department of Transportation official said.
Banners for beer, tobacco and other products meant for adults are covered by the new rules. Promoters can place a product name on the banners but cannot use type faces, logos and colours associated with the banned products.
"Most sporting events have a corporate name attached to them and that name would be allowed," said department spokeswoman Lynn Holschuh. "But if it's a product that can't be sold to minors, the banner can't contain logos or significant advertising promoting the product."
Advertising on billboards, often located on private property, will not be affected by the new rules covering state roadways, the official said. The rules do not affect municipal, Interstate and other roads maintained by other governments.
In Miami, an IndyCar-class grand prix site since 1983, thousands of coloured banners no longer bear the Marlboro name, even though the Feb. 4 to March 2 competition is officially called the Marlboro Miami Grand Prix presented by Toyota.
Banners for the event say simply, Grand Prix of Miami presented by Toyota.
Last year's banners carried the distinctive red colour and bold typface of Marlboro, the most popular cigarette in the United States.
A spokeswoman for Philip Morris Cos. Inc., maker of Marlboro cigarettes, said the company had chosen to drop the Marlboro name from the banners as a courtesy. State officials, including anti-tobacco activist Gov. Lawton Chiles, complained about the Marlboro signs last year.
"We will have signage and merchandise and cigarettes for sale to people 21 and over at the site," said Philip Morris spokeswoman Tara Carraro. "We really want to reach smokers choosing brands."
Marlboro, which along with RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. is a major sponsor of motorsports events, will back other IndyCar events this year in California, Ohio, New Hampshire, Wisconsin and elsewhere.
Such sponsorships are major promotional outlets for the U.S. tobacco industry, with the top two producers spending $50 million or more each year on motorsports sponsorships, according to the IEG Sponsorship Report newsletter.
Marlboro spent about $19 million on motorsport sponsorships and likely as much again on related advertising and promotion during 1996, according to David Jacobsen, senior editor at IEG.
Cigarette advertising has been banned since the 1960s from U.S. television and steadily driven from sponsoring many other sports. The industry now faces still stricter federal government limits on promoting its products.
The federal rules, the first of which are to take effect on Feb. 28, sharply curtail cigarette advertising near schools and playgrounds and in publications favoured by people under 18.
A spokesman for the National Centre for Tobacco Free Kids, an anti-smoking group, said Florida's roadway ban was unusual. Some local transit systems, in San Francisco and elsewhere, have dropped tobacco advertising, he said.
A spokesman for Chiles, who is spearheading a billion-dollar lawsuit against the tobacco industry and advocating new state taxes on cigarettes, described him as pleased by the Marlboro's decision to take its name off the Miami race banners.
Several U.S. legislators are planning to introduce measures soon to relax export restrictions on encryption technology, an increasingly essential part of global communications and online commerce.
Last year, the Clinton administration relaxed some of the Cold War era export limits on the technology, specialized computer programs that scramble data and render it unreadable without a password or software "key."
But computer companies said the administration did not go far enough, locking them out of the growing global market.  
Rep. Bob Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, plans to reintroduce a bill on Wednesday that would go well beyond the Clinton administration's approach, staff people in his office said.
Goodlatte's bill would allow computer companies like Netscape Communications Corp or Microsoft Corp to export products with powerful encryption features if foreign competitors were selling similiar technology.
In the Senate, Montana Republican Sen Conrad Burns is also planning to reintroduce his encryption bill from last year.  
At an informal gathering of the Congressional Internet Caucus Tuesday night, Burns said he expected to put forth the bill, known by the acronym PRO-CODE, in late February.
At one time, the Senator had said the 1997 bill would be identical to last year's bill which did not get a vote in the Commerce Committee.  But staffers said the Senator is still tweaking the bill to draw more supporters.
"It's about ready to go," Burns said Tuesday night.
Goodlatte's bill, under the jurisdiction of the House Judiciary Committee, had already garnered 54 co-sponsors by Tuesday night.  
Staff said the bill almost had the backing of a majority of the members of the Judiciary Committee.
Others are also considering introducing bills, some seeking a middle approach between the administration and the Burns and Goodlatte bills, which would remove nearly all export restrictions.
Sen. Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat and co-chair of the Internet Caucus, may have a bill and Rep Rick White, Pennsylvania Republican and also co-chair, is considering weighing in, staff people said.
Some lobbyists involved in the debate said that the administration was considering introducing its own legislation.  But they were unsure about the contents of the legislation, since the administration implemented its new policy by a Presidential executive order in November.
Administration officials were not immediately available for comment.
((--202-898-8312))
Internet access providers and others who met with Net-savvy lawmakers said they fear Congress will wreak havoc on cyberspace but are also heartened by the growing number of legislators who understand the global computer network.
Company representatives met Tuesday night at the Capitol with members of the Congressional Internet Caucus, about 85 legislators with a common interest in the Net, to express their hopes and fears about efforts to make laws governing cyberspace.
"I think it's inevitable that there will be bills introduced that attempt to legislate the content of everything on the Internet," Tom Evslin, vice president of AT&amp;T Corp.'s WorldNet Internet service, said after the meeting.
Evslin said it would be as difficult to keep Congress from making wrong moves as it would be to get the legislature to act to head off problems.
Bill Schrader, president of Internet provider PSINet Inc., was more blunt. "Be very careful or you will destroy this industry," he warned.
The members of Congress who attended the meeting pledged to try to protect the Internet.
"We have a lot of pretty tough work ahead of us," Representative Rick White, R-Pa., and a co-chairman of the caucus conceded. "We have many, many issues coming down the pike from encryption to privacy, to copyright and taxation."
Encryption is the use of software to encode and decode information.
On Wednesday, White co-sponsored one of the first Internet-related bills in the 105th Congress. The bill, authored by Virginia Republican Rep Bob Goodlatte, would relax export restrictions on computer hardware and software containing encryption features.
Sen. Conrad Burns, also a co-chairman, warned that, despite the caucus, legislation will always trail developments in the private sector.
"The government making policy is never ahead of the curve," the Montana Republican said. "If we do the right thing now, I guarantee you that by the time it's passed and the president signs it, we'll be behind the curve."
Last year was a mixed bag for the Internet in Congress.
Legislators passed the Communications Decency Act, opposed by online companies and civil libertarians as an infringement on free speech rights, but also defeated measures that would have imposed liability on Internet providers for copyright infringement.
Sun Microsystems Inc.'s chief scientist, John Gage, fretted that, with only 85 pro-Internet legislators out of 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate, most in Congress remained ignorant of the Net. "We've got a long way to go," he said.
Companies interested in the Internet offered some conflicting goals for Congress. Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, urged the legislators to impose new laws protecting Hollywood products.
"Congress cannot avoid that all intellectual property has to be protected -- this can't be Dodge City without a sheriff," Valenti said. But he also praised the Internet as "the most valuable and spacious information greenhouse that's ever been built."
PSINet's Schrader countered that existing laws already protected movies, books and other works. "Everything is not new," he said. "It's the same-old, same-old."
Internet access providers and others who met with Net-savvy lawmakers said they fear Congress will wreak havoc on cyberspace but are also heartened by the growing number of legislators who understand the global computer network.
Company representatives met Tuesday night at the Capitol with members of the Congressional Internet Caucus, about 85 legislators with a common interest in the Net, to express their hopes and fears about efforts to make laws governing cyberspace.
"I think it's inevitable that there will be bills introduced that attempt to legislate the content of everything on the Internet," Tom Evslin, vice president of AT&amp;T Corp.'s WorldNet Internet service, said after the meeting.
Evslin said it would be as difficult to keep Congress from making wrong moves as it would be to get the legislature to act to head off problems.
Bill Schrader, president of Internet provider PSINet Inc., was more blunt. "Be very careful or you will destroy this industry," he warned.
The members of Congress who attended the meeting pledged to try to protect the Internet.
"We have a lot of pretty tough work ahead of us," Representative Rick White, R-Pa., and a co-chairman of the caucus conceded. "We have many, many issues coming down the pike from encryption to privacy, to copyright and taxation."
Encyrption is the use of software to encode and decode information.
Sen. Conrad Burns, also a co-chairman, warned that, despite the caucus, legislation will always trail developments in the private sector.
"The government making policy is never ahead of the curve," the Montana Republican said. "If we do the right thing now, I guarantee you that by the time it's passed and the president signs it, we'll be behind the curve."
Last year was a mixed bag for the Internet in Congress.
Legislators passed the Communications Decency Act, opposed by online companies and civil libertarians as an infringement on free speech rights, but also defeated measures that would have imposed liability on Internet providers for copyright infringement.
Sun Microsystems Inc.'s chief scientist, John Gage, fretted that, with only 85 pro-Internet legislators out of 435 in the House and 100 in the Senate, most in Congress remained ignorant of the Net. "We've got a long way to go," he said.
Companies interested in the Internet offered some conflicting goals for Congress. Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, urged the legislators to impose new laws protecting Hollywood products.
"Congress cannot avoid that all intellectual property has to be protected -- this can't be Dodge City without a sheriff," Valenti said. But he also praised the Internet as "the most valuable and spacious information greenhouse that's ever been built."
PSINet's Schrader countered that existing laws already protected movies, books and other works. "Everything is not new," he said. "It's the same-old, same-old."
Australian industrial conglomerate Pacific Dunlop Ltd is set to announce a steep drop in first half earnings on Friday, due to plant problems and tough trading conditions, share analysts said on Wednesday.
The analysts are forecasting the group to report a net profit before abnormals of around A$85 million for the six months to December 31, a 28 percent fall on a year ago.
The full range of forecasts are thought to be between A$80 million and A$95 million before abnormals, two of the analysts contacted by Reuters said.  
Pacific Dunlop reported pre-abnormal net earnings of A$118 million for the first half of 1995/96 (July/June), and went on to post a 35 percent fall in pre-abnormal profit for the year.
Brokerages have been steadily winding back their 1996/97 profit forecasts for Pacific Dunlop since the company first warned of a weak start to the current year, the analysts said.
Pacific Dunlop warned last September it expected first half profit to be down on a year ago, but predicted an improved annual result despite extreme competition in key markets.  
The company -- which has businesses spanning tyres, car parts, batteries, clothing, industrial cables and latex goods -- reported pre-abnormal net earnings of A$162 million for 1995/96.
"The market concern at the moment is that the (first half) result might come out worse than what people were expecting or hoping," a Melbourne-based analyst told Reuters.
"There's not an expectation of surprise on the upside."
Pacific Dunlop's batteries division is the biggest concern, due largely to commissioning problems at its U.S. lead smelter in Georgia, the analysts said.  
Pacific Dunlop said in November the smelter was operating at well below capacity. It was shut down earlier for redesign and modification work.
"The smelter is going to affect them substantially," another Melbourne-based analyst said. The batteries division is expected to earn about half what it did in the first half of 1995/96.
Tough trading conditions are likely to weigh on most of the other divisions, especially the tyres business.
"Obviously the consumer economy is difficult. The building environment is difficult -- that will affect cables -- so it will be pretty tough across the board," the analyst said.  
"They may get there. They may be a little bit short, but it will be tough," a Sydney-based analyst said.
Only Pacific Dunlop's rubber-glove maker, Ansell International, is confidently expected to report an improved performance, but the local dollar could steal some of its glory.
Ansell earns much of its revenue in Europe and the United States, one analyst said. "The currency has gone against that division a little bit," he said.
"The Australian dollar for the half was a little bit higher. That's going to make it tough to report an increase in $A terms."
Analysts were not confident Pacific Dunlop could fulfill its forecast for a higher full-year profit in 1996/97.  
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Human rights activists and the computer industry joined in a rare show of cooperation on Thursday, urging more effective policing of pornography and violence in the anarchic "virtual wild west" of the Internet.
    Stories proliferate about pornography, sexual   violence
against women and children, bomb-making recipes, incitement to racial hatred and do-it-yourself fraud schemes that are available at various computer Web sites.
"We acknowledge the problems, we're not abdicating responsibility," said Janet Henderson, lawyer and rights strategy manager for Internet services at British Telecommunications.
"We do have the well-being of customers and ultimately their fundamental freedoms at heart," she told the first European conference on combating violence and pornography in cyberspace.
Lawyers have been studying how to police what appears to be a regulatory vacuum without national boundaries -- while trying to distinguish between what is illegal and what is, more subjectively, harmful.
BT, which launched its Internet access service last March, has adopted what it calls a "taste and decency" policy. Any illegal material found through its access to the computer network is reported to the Internet Watch Foundation, which was created last October.
The foundation, which will pass on information about potentially illegal material to the police, also wants to encourage legal material to be classified, allowing users to block access to certain subjects with filtering software.
Henderson said the Internet allowed anonymous worldwide distribution of vast amounts of extremely violent material and child pornography. But access providers could not be the "moral guardians of the nation".
"Slow but sure is the approach we are taking," she said.
Speakers agreed that without knowing the names of "obscene" websites, even spending hours wandering through cyberspace was unlikely to reveal anything more perturbing than walking into a newsagents. Only with "a great level of intent and technical expertise" was it possible to find obscene material, they said.
But German human rights campaigner Monika Gerstendorfer noted that the Internet made it easier for groups, such as extreme political organisations, to communicate and gather forces worldwide.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's cabinet last year approved a bill that will ban websites spreading Nazi propaganda, distributing hardcore pornography to minors and conducting fraudulent business.
The German division of the world's second largest online service, CompuServe GmbH, has said it would consider moving its operations to a neighbouring country if German laws forced Internet companies to control porn on their networks.
Any walkout by American Airlines pilots would hit tourist-dependent Caribbean islands like a hurricane, while Latin America's diversified economies should easily weather a service-stoppage.
"A hurricane hits only one island, and this will hurt all the islands," said Antonio Colorado, executive director of the Caribbean/Latin America Action economic organisation.
A halt by American Airlines, a unit of AMR Corp., which dominates U.S. service to the Caribbean and Latin America, would come just at the height of the Caribbean tourist season and cause economic havoc, regional industry, political and economic offcials and analysts said.
The roughly 160,000 hotel rooms in Barbados, St. Lucia, Aruba and other Caribbean islands are 90 percent occupied on average and losses from a strike could total $15 million each day of the North American winter, Colorado said.
"Few hoteliers in the Caribbean could be expected to sustain the loss of such revenue for more than a few days without terminal effect," said Caribbean Hotel Association executive vice president John Bell.
American, now in labour talks with its pilots, and its American Eagle subsidiary account for as much as 70 percent of the flights between the Caribbean and North America. Some 7.2 million North Americans travel to the Caribbean each year.
Some Caribbean economies are 50 percent or more tourist reliant, and region-wide tourist spending adds up to some $11 billion each year.
Grenada, Martinique, St. Kitts and St. Lucia are among the islands most reliant on American services.
"An American Airlines strike would be devastating to us at this time," St. Lucia's Prime Minister Dr. Vaughn Lewis said.
Some manufacturers and shippers of perishable goods from Latin America and the Caribbean would be hurt by a stoppage at American but the interruption in passenger traffic to Latin America would be short-lived, economists said.
"I think it would be little more than a blip," said Terry McCoy of the University of Florida in Gainesville.
Much of the travel between North America and the bigger countries in South America such as Argentina and Chile is by business people and much commerce can be carried out by telephone and otherwise.
"A lot of people who would take trips can use faxes," said Jerry Haar at the North-South Centre, a think tank at the University of Miami. "There would be a disruption but it's not anything which can't be recouped."
Cut-flower exporters from Ecuador and Colombia and seafood or horticultural shippers could also be hurt, Haar said. Some shippers of other goods might also face higher transport rates.
But overall the manufacturing and services businesses throughout Latin America were unlikely to feel many effects from a strike, economists said.
Aviation consultant Stuart Klaskin of Miami said a strike running a week or more might be a boon to U.S. rivals of American Airlines such as Delta, United Airlines and Continental Airlines. Each would likely seek to increase flights or add destinations.
International insurance broker Willis Corroon, reported a rise in 1996 profits on Thursday but gave a gloomy assessment of the problems of overcapacity and falling rates currently afflicting the industry.
The company said insurance rates were declining almost universally and competition in the U.S. retail market was intensifying.
It also warned that the recent rise in sterling which reduced 1996 profits by 3.1 million pounds ($5.1 million) may hit 1997 results and that profits from its Lloyd's members agency were unlikely to be repeated at the 1996 level.
The comments were made as Willis unveiled pre-tax profits for the year of 91.6 million pounds, a rise of 83 percent over 1995, which included 30 million pounds in exceptional charges.
Stripping out exceptionals and disposals, profits from continuing operations were up 13 percent at 89.1 million pounds.
Willis said it expected to benefit from a programme designed to enhance performance and competitiveness but the shares lost ground after the results, slipping eight pence by early afternoon to 131-1/2 pence.
Analysts said the results merely confirmed the difficulties the sector faced.
Willis chairman John Reeve, however, pointed to the rise in profits and elimination of net debt as evidence of the successful implementation of plans to restore the group's financial health.
"The group is now focused on its core operation, following a programme of disposal, profitability has been improved and the balance sheet has been significantly strengthened," Reeve said.
Willis also drew comfort from its success in growing revenues and despite the difficult market conditions. it said it remained sceptical about the benefits of the recent industry trend of pursuing cost economies through mergers.
"We think there are huge risks in people businessses associated with that. We have a strategy for growing our business which we're comfortable with and as far as we're concerned that's what we're concentrating on," group executive director Max Taylor told Reuters in an interview.
Following the implementation of the Lloyd's of London Reconstruction and Renewal plan (R&amp;R) the group's members agency returned to profit for the first time since 1992.
The 14.5 million pound profit commission for the 1993 year included reserves from prior years. These were partly offset by contributions of 6.3 million pounds to the R&amp;R plan.
Willis said present indications were that profit commission on the 1994 year, receivable in 1997, will be around half those of 1993.
Profits for the 1995 year were likely to be significantly down, however, said one analyst, and there were big questions over whether it would be profitable at all in 1997 given the rating environment.
After severance costs of 11.3 million pounds in the 1996 figures related to the change programme, Taylor said he expected further costs in 1997 to be lower.
He said a fall in staff numbers of 11 percent in 1996 was unlikely to be repeated and further reductions were expected to be on a smaller scale and absorbed through natural wastage.
The change programme is expected to span three to five years and last year's actions were taken to underpin it. The real effort would now be going into the longer term effort of building capabilities, skills and resources, said Taylor.
($ = 0.612 British Pounds)
Britain's NatWest Group said on Thursday it was setting up a new business grouping, NatWest Wealth Management, to tap the potential of private banking, long-term savings and investment markets.
The unit will bring together asset management company Gartmore, life insurance and pensions unit NatWest Life and Investment Services and NatWest Ventures.
Private banking unit Coutts Group will join the new arm in January 1998 following the completion of a restructuring process.
NatWest group chief executive Derek Wanless said the new business offered "potentially very strong growth" for the group.
"It's a market with major growth potential because of demographic changes, people's need to save for sickness and old age," he said in an interview.
"It's an area where we've put a fair number of the building blocks in place over the past few years, particularly last year, when we bought Gartmore and integrated it with our own investment management company."
NatWest Wealth Management will have funds in excess of 60 billion pounds ($98 billion) under management.
It will be positioned to offer a comprehensive range of products and services to clients, ranging from the private investor through to the most sophisticated pension fund sponsor.
Paul Myners, chairman of Gartmore, Britain's fifth-largest fund manager, which NatWest acquired in April 1996, will be chief executive of the new unit from April 1 and will report directly to Wanless.
Myners said the businesses in the new group were already well-established and successful and together represented a "substantial force in the provision of long-term savings and investment products".
Wealth management was a significant market for the group's future and the creation of a dedicated sector represented a logical progression of its strategy, said Wanless.
It was also looking to ensure it got the best out of combining the Gartmore and NatWest brands and making use of the groups' distribution channels to independent financial advisers (IFAs).
"Cost savings were essentially in the integration of Gartmore and NatWest investment management which took place last year. The benefits are really on the growth side; the income, not the cost side of the business," Wanless said.
"It has no negative implications for headcount. We genuinely think this is a growth opportunity where we're growing together some interesting businesses both in terms of distribution and fund mangement."
He said that last year's investment in Gartmore was the principal building block from outside needed for the move and that it was now substantially a case of organic growth, building the distribution channels and capitalising on the other strengths of NatWest UK and Coutts. ($1=.6120 Pound)
French subscriber television company Canal Plus said on Friday it was merging with Nethold, a Dutch satellite television company, to create one of the world's largest pay-TV groups.
Nethold is jointly held by Richemont SA, which is quoted on the Zurich and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and MIH Holdings Ltd, a listed holding company.
"This merger is a major strategic move, resulting in the creation of one of the largest television groups in the world...particularly in the field of pay-TV with over 8.5 million subscribers," Canal Plus said in a statement.
The new group will have significant positions in France, Italy, Spain, Scandinavia, the Benelux countries and Germany as well as a presence in several growing markets in central Europe.
The Paris stockmarket authorities had suspended trading in Canal Plus shares on Friday morning, sparking speculation of a link up between the French firm and Nethold.
Its stock closed at 1,169 francs on Thursday.
Utilities group Cie Generale des Eaux, a key shareholder in Canal Plus, said in a separate statement it was delighted with the merger plan, which marked big step in Canal Plus's international development.
The pact would give the French company access to the fast-growing Italian market, Generale des Eaux said.
It would also give the new group greater weight in negotiating purchases of copyrights and open opportunities for the launch of European theme channels.
Generale des Eaux said it was comfortable with its investment in Canal Plus. It said that in agreement with other Canal Plus shareholders, it would seek to maintain the same scale of investment in the new company.
Under the terms of the deal, Canal Plus will buy 100 percent of Nethold from Richemont and MIH, paying with 6.1 million new Canal Plus shares and $45 million in cash.
Following the issue of new Canal Plus shares, Richemont and MIH will respectively own 15 and five percent of Canal Plus.
Cie Financiere Richemont has interests in luxury goods and tobacco and owns such famous brandnames as Cartier, Mont Blanc, Rothmans and Dunhill.
Canal Plus said the deal had the backing of its main shareholders, media group Havas, Generale des Eaux, bank Societe Generale, and state bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations.
It is subject to regulatory and shareholder approval.
French subscriber television company Canal Plus said on Friday that it was merging with Nethold, a Dutch satellite television company, to create one of the world's largest pay-TV groups.
Nethold is jointly held by Richemont SA, which is quoted on the Zurich and Johannesburg stock exchanges and MIH Holdings Ltd, a listed holding company.
"This merger is a major strategic move, resulting in the creation of one of the largest television groups in the world...particularly in the field of pay-TV with over 8.5 million subscribers," Canal Plus said in a statement.
The new group will have significant positions in France, Italy, Spain, Scandinavia, the Benelux countries and Germany, as well as a presence in several growing markets in central Europe.
The Paris stockmarket authorities had suspended trading in Canal Plus shares on Friday morning, sparking speculation of a link up between the French firm and Nethold.
Its stock closed at 1,169 francs on Thursday.
Utilities group Cie Generale des Eaux, a key shareholder in Canal Plus, said in a separate statement that it was delighted with the merger plan, which marked big step in Canal Plus's international development.
The pact would give the French company access to the fast growing Italian market, Generale des Eaux said.
It would also give the new group greater weight in negotiating purchases of copyrights and open opportunities for the launch of European theme channels.
Generale des Eaux said it was comfortable with its investment in Canal Plus. It said that, in agreement with other Canal Plus shareholders, it would seek to maintain the same scale of investment in the new company.
Under the terms of the deal, Canal Plus will buy 100 percent of Nethold from Richemont and MIH, paying with 6.1 million new Canal Plus shares and $45 million in cash.
Following the issue of new Canal Plus shares, Richemont and MIH will respectively own 15 and five percent of Canal Plus. Cie Financiere Richemont has interests in luxury goods and tobacco and owns such famous brandnames as Cartier, Mont Blanc, Rothmans and Dunhill.
Canal Plus said the deal had the backing of its main shareholders, media group Havas, Generale des Eaux, bank Ste Generale and state bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations. It is subject to regulatory and shareholder approval.
Troubled Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel SA/Plc is due to release first-half results on Monday but analysts said any attempt to forecast the figures was futile, given the uncertainties over its debt restructuring.
"Everything depends on resolving the financial situation. If they announce a good figure...that might help, but it's really a face-off between the company and the bankers," Olivier Machou, analyst at brokerage Leven said.
Eurotunnel needs to agree a refinancing of its $12.3 billion bank debt by the end of September, having asked in July for two court-appointed mediators to stay on to negotiate a deal with its some 220-strong bank syndicate.
Machou said it was hard to forecast results due to "dumping" in the price war between Eurotunnel and ferry companies as they battle for a share of cross-Channel traffic between Britain and France.
"It's not a stock that you can take a view based on half-year figures, especially as the first half comes before the summer season," one analyst said.
However, one analyst at a large French brokerage said he had a rough forecast of a 2.5 billion franc ($492 million) net loss and an operating loss of around 100 million.
The Channel Tunnel operator posted first-half sales of 1.79 billion francs, up from 806 million a year ago. It made a net loss for the full year last year of 7.196 billion francs on turnover of 2.266 billion.
The headline figures will likely be flattered by the fact that Eurotunnel did not have all its services running a year ago, said Jeff Summers, head of research at debt specialist Klesch and Co in London.
Stripping out the minimum usage fee that the railway operators pay, he expected a 25-30 percent improvement in the underlying results from a year ago.
In sterling terms, Summers has pencilled in a 22 million pound ($34.45 million) pretax, pre-interest loss versus 121 million a year ago. With benign currency movements, it may break even.
Operating cashflow should at least double to 56 million sterling before interest and capital expenditure, compared with 29 million.
"Everything is going in its favour," Summers said. He cited the British government's recent decision to allow cooperation between ferry companies to pool their capacity and the European Commission's decision not to extend the duty-free sales regime beyond 1999.
Pooling by rivals such as P&amp;O and Stena would lead to "a reduction in direct competition" for Eurotunnel, while the loss of duty-free sales, representing 250 million sterling of soft subsidies for the ferries, would push ferry firms to raise ticket prices.
Eurotunnel could then raise its prices and boost turnover.
The cross-Channel market has also grown much faster even than Eurotunnel forecast, with traffic up 20 percent last year and estimated growth of 13-15 percent this year, Summers said.
Richard Branson, head of the London &amp; Continental Railways (LCR) group which runs the Eurostar high-speed train concession, has forecast it will hit six million passengers in the financial year 1996/97 and 10 million in 18 months.
If that happens, Eurotunnel could receive revenues above the minimum usage fee as higher service levels trigger extra payments. ($1=5.077 French Franc) ($1=.6385 Pound)
Scottish Amicable adviser SBC Warburg is hoping to close the first stage in the sale of the life assurance group with the signing of confidentiality agreements with all potential bidders by the weekend, a source close to the deal said on Friday.
So far three companies, Abbey National, Prudential Corp and Australia's largest life insurer Australian Mutual Provident (AMP) have signed the agreements.
These give the bidders detailed financial information on ScotAm to enable them to finalise their offers.
The agreements go further, however, in preventing the bidder from publicly disclosing any details of the offers and forcing them to accept the ScotAm board's decision as final.
A number of other companies are reported to have expressed interest in ScotAm but have yet to sign the agreements.
One company rumoured to have contemplated a bid, Belgian-Dutch insurer Fortis, is said to have ruled itself out of the auction process, but the company has consistently declined to comment.
Another tipped to make a bid, Dutch group Aegon, has yet to show its hand.
The whole process is expected to take between four and six weeks before a final offer is recommended to policyholders by the ScotAm board.
Mutually-owned ScotAm effectively put itself up for auction earlier this month when it said it was to seek definitive offers from parties interested in acquiring it.
The sealed bid process has come in for some criticism and Warburgs and the ScotAm board are likely to go to great lengths to ensure fairness is seen to be done.
"I suspect they are aware that they may have to give more detail than otherwise they may have done under a controlled auction," commented one industry observer.
Abbey National, Britain's fifth largest bank, sparked the auction when it announced at the end of January that it was prepared to make an offer worth up to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.27 billion) for ScotAm.
The move came barely two weeks after ScotAm had published its own proposals to drop its mutual status through a flotation on the London stock market.
Prudential threw its hat into the ring with a 1.9 million pound bid last week, a move which prompted ScotAm to open the way for other interested parties to declare their interest.
Abbey National has said it may raise its offer once it has had access to ScotAm's financial details.
In deciding who wins the race, the question of the value of the bid is likely to include not just how much policyholders get up front but where that money comes from, how much goes into policies and what the bidder can offer in terms of future investment flexibility. ($1=.6167 Pound)
Canada unveiled plans on Friday to lift restrictions on foreign banks in a bid to spur competition in a sector dominated by six big domestic banks.
Draft legislation allowing foreign banks to open branches in Canada will be ready before the end of 1997. But a possible federal election may delay the passage of the bill in Canada's parliament until next year, said Doug Peters, secretary of state for financial institutions.
"Branching will encourage new banks to enter the Canadian marketplace and allow existing foreign banks greater opportunity to compete," Peters said in a statement.
He told reporters that the government needed time to develop branching rules, including a tax regime.
Foreign bankers have complained that Canada lagged behind its Group of Seven trading partners in opening up its banking sector to foreign competition.
Current rules require foreign banks to operate separately capitalized subsidiaries in Canada. The higher cost of operating a subsidiary, rather than a branch, has driven several foreign banks out of the country.
Last year a federal "white paper" on financial reforms introduced only minor changes to foreign bank rules, but parliament subsequently issued reports urging freer access to Canada's markets for foreign banks.
The number of foreign banks operating in Canada has dropped to 43 from a peak of about 60 in the 1980s. The legislation has not been written yet, but a freer market would make Canada more attractive, said Alfred Buhler, chairman of Bank of America Canada, a unit of BankAmerica Corp.
"It will slow the erosion and may reverse that trend. I think a number of banks who are not currently operating in Canada will take another hard look," Buhler said.
Canada's big six domestic banks already dominate regular banking, trusts and brokerages. But they are being challenged by the Internet and the rise of new "virtual banks."
Dutch financial services giant ING Groep N.V. is set to launch a telephone banking operation in Canada early next year and has earmarked an initial investment of $50 million for direct marketing of a range of savings and loans products.
Citicorp and Wells Fargo and Co. are also planning banking services aimed at Canadian consumers and small businesses.
Canadian bankers have said they would welcome more foreign competition as long as it is on a level playing field.
"We have absolutely no concerns about being able to compete successfully. There is a need to ensure that regulations -- tax, capital adequacy, corporate governance policies and so on -- are reasonably balanced," Bank of Nova Scotia chairman Peter Godsoe said recently.
Canadian bankers complained that their foreign rivals did not pay the same capital taxes in Canada as domestic banks. They also argued that virtual banks would not create new jobs in Canada, although critics noted that Canadian banks had shed staff recently in a move to electronic banking services.
Royal Bank of Canada, the country's biggest bank with more than $150 billion in assets, supports granting more access to foreign banks if rules barring Canadian banks from getting bigger are lifted.
Royal Bank and its counterparts have seen their international rankings slip sharply in recent years. They argue domestic bank mergers may be necessary if Canada is to remain competitive internationally.
Federal laws discourage bank mergers by limiting investors to a minimum 10 percent stake in a Canadian bank. A government task force plans to study these and other competition issues this year.
Canada's major banks, still smarting from last year's bank-bashing budget, are hoping for no major surprises and perhaps some tax relief from Finance Minister Paul Martin next week.
Last year, Martin stunned the banks when he rejected their bid for expanded powers in insurance. He also extended a controversial capital tax on the banks for another year.
In the run up to next Tuesday's 1997/98 budget, bankers have lobbied for a lighter tax burden which, they argue, is among the heaviest in corporate Canada.
"We feel the banks are paying more than their fair share of taxes. Particularly our concern is capital taxes," said Mark Weseluck, vice-president of banking operations for the Canadian Bankers Association.
The Big Six banks -- Royal Bank of Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Bank of Montreal, Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto-Dominion Bank and National Bank of Canada -- have rung up record profits in the past three years.
The group earned a combined C$6.26 billion in 1996, up 21 percent from the previous year. The banks are expected to report strong first-quarter results later this month.
At their annual meetings this year, bankers stressed they paid record taxes of more than C$5.5 billion in 1996.
But social activists argue the banks should pay more tax on what they call "excessive" profits.
In its "alternative" budget released this week, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives urged Martin to impose an "excess profits" tax on the banks and other financial institutions totaling C$496 million in 1997/98.
Other groups want Martin to use the existing 12 percent capital tax to encourage small business lending -- an area in which the banks have been criticized for not doing enough.
In Ontario -- where five of the six major banks are based -- the Conservative government hit the banks with a 10 percent capital tax surcharge in last spring's budget.
The banks can eliminate some or all of the tax if they invest more in small business between now and the end of 1999. Ontario Finance officials said it was too early to measure the program's performance, but several major banks unveiled small business loan programs in recent months.
Weseluck said the Ontario tax had little to do with those announcements. "The problem when you do this is that taxation gets less efficient the more they are used to boost investment in a certain part of the market which the banks are doing extensively anyway," he said.
Analysts doubted Martin would do any major tinkering on bank taxes next week.
"I don't expect any new additional taxes and I doubt if there is any tax relief. The only possible source of tax relief is that the government would not extend this capital tax," said Nesbitt Burns analyst Hugh Brown.
With bank bashing a popular sport among Canadian voters, Martin may be loathe to give the banks a tax break in what is shaping up to be an election year, analysts said.
Adding to this year's budget boredom is the absence of last year's noisy battle between the banks and insurers.
Martin shocked the banks when he slammed the door on their bid for broader insurance powers and pre-empted a government white paper on financial reforms, which was several months away from being released.
Martin has set up a task force to study those and other competition issues, including whether major banks should be allowed to merge. But reforms recommended by the task force are not expected to take effect until 2000.
((Reuters Toronto Bureau 416-941-8100))
A scuffle breaking out between a top U.S. bank regulator and the state of Rhode Island could foreshadow an increasing number of disputes as more national banks begin selling insurance products, market participants said.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said last month it is considering overriding a new Rhode Island insurance law that imposes different requirements on banks selling insurance than those imposed on on insurance agents.  
While national banks have long had the legal right to sell insurance in small towns, state insurance regulators often imposed onerous rules on the banks.
But last year, the Supreme Court rejected discriminatory state insurance laws and ruled that states cannot "significantly interfere" with national banks conducting permissible activities.
Banks said that states are now trying to evade the court's ruling. They charged that an insurance agents trade group is pushing states to adopt laws like the Rhode Island measure.  
"The Rhode Island statute is their first successful effort to pass such restrictive legislation," James McIntyre, counsel to Association of Banks-in-Insurance, said in a letter this week to the OCC.
"Many other states are considering similiar legislation or regulations at this time. Guidance from the OCC is urgently needed if we are to avoid wasteful legislation and avoid pointless litigation," McIntyre added.
Major states such as Texas, Pennsylvania and Illinois are expected to consider similiar legislation, bankers said.  
The Independent Insurance Agents of America fired back in their own letter to the Comptroller's office. Preempting the Rhode Island law would be "wholly inappropriate" because the law does not significantly interfere with a national bank's ability to sell insurance, the group said.
The agents added that an override would be premature. Although the law was enacted in August, the state has not finished writing the implementing regulations.
Banks said the law on its face is more burdensome to banks than to others selling insurance.  
For example, bank personnel involved in teller activities or making loans would be restricted from selling insurance, forcing banks to have two different sales forces, McIntyre said.
The Comptroller's Office is reviewing the comments it received and will issue an opinion, but has not set a deadline for making a decision, a spokesman said.
Negotiations between American Airlines and its pilots union continued into the early hours of Friday, with neither side reporting any breakthrough that would avert a midnight strike at the nation's No. 2 carrier.
A federal mediator refereeing the talks at a downtown hotel informed the pilots that American had rejected a key union contract proposal covering who should pilot -- and at what pay -- the carrier's smaller American Eagle planes.
Mediators are shuttling back and forth between the two sides offering hypothetical "what if" proposals on a variety of issues in an effort the bring the two sides closer together and prevent a midnight Friday (0500 GMT Saturday) strike by the pilots which would throw the nation's air transport system into turmoil.
"They're going to work all night, throughout the night. All day (Friday)," said Dave Bates, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, which represents American's 9,000 pilots.
He said the union is "disappointed at the lack of progress" so far.
"We will continue to negotiate for as long as it takes. But (Friday) night at midnight the pilots will be on strike."
Bates said no face-to-face talks had as yet been scheduled. An American spokesman would only say that the negotiations were continuing.
Going into the talks on Thursday evening, Kenneth Hipp, chairman of the National Mediation Board, said he was hopeful an agreement could be worked out in time to avert a strike.
The union had proposed that its pilots fly the American Eagle flights, but with lower pay than pilots flying the regular American aircraft. American, however, wants to continue using lower-paid commuter pilots from a different union to fly the smaller planes.
While the mediator has informed the union of the airline's rejection of the proposal on small planes, union officials said the company itself has not notified them directly of that.
The dispute also centres around the pilots' pay. They now earn an average of about $120,000 a year.
The union earlier had said it would offer a new pay proposal -- probably less than the 11.5 percent over four years it had sought. The latest reported offer from American was a 6 percent boost over four years.
A strike would ground 2,200 American flights on Saturday and affect about 200,000 passengers. American, a unit of AMR Corp., accounts for about 20 percent of the nation's airline capacity.
The Fort Worth, Texas-based airline is trying to rebook passengers on other carriers and has already cancelled nearly all international flights scheduled for Friday night.
American Airlines spokesman John Hotard said on Thursday the carrier was cancelling 12 of its domestic flights scheduled for Friday. "There are some small domestic airports where we have no permanent place to park the planes if there is a strike, so we decided to cancel those 12 flights."
A Transportation Department official said a strike could cost the U.S. economy up to $200 million a day.
American Airlines Chairman Robert Crandall called for binding government arbitration of the dispute, a proposal the pilots have repeatedly rejected.
"I think mandatory binding arbitration should be required" to prevent airline strikes, Crandall told a congressional subcommittee. Binding arbitration would mean both parties agreed to abide by the decision of an arbitrator.
"I seriously doubt we could accept that," union spokesman Wally Pitts said.
Crandall told a hearing of a House of Representatives Transportation subcommittee he was unsure if a strike could be avoided. "We have two choices: we can either cave in or take a strike. A strike of 90 days will destroy this airline."
As the talks entered their fourth day of intensive bargaining, President Bill Clinton was keeping a close watch.
Clinton could intervene and name an emergency board to try to resolve the issues. Under the Railway Labour Act, which also covers airlines, the president has the power to declare a national emergency to stop a strike and to keep planes flying for 60 days. The last time such an action was taken in an airlines strike was in 1966.
But at an unrelated news conference on Thursday, Clinton repeated that the parties should use the government mediator to reach an agreement.
Negotiations between American Airlines and its pilots union continued into the early hours of Friday, with neither side reporting any breakthrough that would avert a midnight strike at the nation's number-two carrier.
A federal mediator refereeing the talks at a downtown hotel informed the pilots that American had rejected a key union contract proposal covering who should pilot -- and at what pay -- the carrier's smaller American Eagle planes.
Mediators are shuttling back and forth between the two sides offering hypothetical "what if" proposals on a variety of issues in an effort the bring the two sides closer together and prevent a midnight Friday (0500 GMT Saturday) strike by the pilots which would throw the nation's air transport system into turmoil.
"They're going to work all night, throughout the night. All day (Friday)," said Dave Bates, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, which represents American's 9,000 pilots.
He said the union is "disappointed at the lack of progress" so far.
"We will continue to negotiate for as long as it takes. But (Friday) night at midnight the pilots will be on strike."
Bates said no face-to-face talks had as yet been scheduled. An American spokesman would only say that the negotiations were continuing.
Going into the talks on Thursday evening, Kenneth Hipp, chairman of the National Mediation Board, said he was hopeful an agreement could be worked out in time to avert a strike.
The union had proposed that its pilots fly the American Eagle flights, but with lower pay than pilots flying the regular American aircraft. American, however, wants to continue using lower-paid commuter pilots from a different union to fly the smaller planes.
While the mediator has informed the union of the airline's rejection of the proposal on small planes, union official said the company itself has not notified them directly of that.
The dispute also centers around the pilots' pay. They now earn an average of about $120,000 a year.
The union earlier had said it would offer a new pay proposal -- probably less than the 11.5 percent over four years it had sought. The latest reported offer from American was a six percent boost over four years.
A strike would ground 2,200 American flights on Saturday and affect about 200,000 passengers. American, a unit of AMR Corp., accounts for about 20 percent of the nation's airline capacity.
The Fort Worth, Texas-based airline is trying to rebook passengers on other carriers and has already canceled nearly all international flights scheduled for Friday night.
American Airlines spokesman John Hotard said on Thursday the carrier was canceling 12 of its domestic flights scheduled for Friday. "There are some small domestic airports where we have no permanent place to park the planes if there is a strike, so we decided to cancel those 12 flights."
A Transportation Department official said a strike could cost the U.S. economy up to $200 million a day.
American Airlines Chairman Robert Crandall called for binding government arbitration of the dispute, a proposal the pilots have repeatedly rejected.
"I think mandatory binding arbitration should be required" to prevent airline strikes, Crandall told a congressional subcommittee. Binding arbitration would mean both parties agreed to abide by the decision of an arbitrator.
"I seriously doubt we could accept that," union spokesman Wally Pitts said.
Crandall told a hearing of a House of Representatives Transportation subcommittee he was unsure if a strike could be avoided. "We have two choices: we can either cave in or take a strike. A strike of 90 days will destroy this airline."
As the talks entered their fourth day of intensive bargaining, President Bill Clinton was keeping a close watch.
Clinton could intervene and name an emergency board to try to resolve the issues. Under the Railway Labor Act, which also covers airlines, the president has the power to declare a national emergency to stop a strike and to keep planes flying for 60 days. The last time such an action was taken in an airlines strike was in 1966.
But at an unrelated news conference on Thursday, Clinton repeated that the parties should use the government mediator to reach an agreement.
Tobacco companies are countersuing Florida, saying the state government should be held liable for manufacturing cigarettes in its prisons if the state wins a billion-dollar lawsuit against cigarette makers.
Tobacco industry lawyers filed the suit on Wednesday, a Philip Morris Cos spokeswoman said and comes a week after a Florida judge blocked the industry from using Florida's history of cigarette-making in a trial scheduled to begin in August.  
Tobacco legal papers filed in Palm Beach County Court said the Florida Department of Corrections for decades made high-nicotine, high-tar cigarettes and other tobacco products and sold or distributed them to inmates.
State officials believed the cigarettes were "particularly unhealthful "but still distributed them to inmates."
"The state believed that its cigarettes were cancer-causing and addictive," the court papers said.
The tobacco countersuit asked that Florida pay some damages along with the tobacco industry if it should win its lawsuit to be tried in August.  
Florida, the countersuit said, should be liable "for the portion of damages that is attributable to its own conduct, or for its presumptive share of the market."
State officials have said the tobacco used in the cigarettes was bought from one of the defendants, American Tobacco Co, and it no longer makes cigarettes in its prisons.
Spearheaded by Gov. Lawton Chiles, Florida is suing cigarette makers for $1 billion, or more in costs incurred from treating smokers through the state's Medicaid healthcare program.  
The state has also won the right to press for punitive damages under a state racketeering law if it can prove tobacco companies such as RJR Nabisco and the Brown &amp; Williamson unit of B.A.T Industries of Britain conspired to hide the health risks of tobacco from customers.
The governor is also pressing to raise cigarette taxes and backed restrictions made public this week on tobacco-related advertising on Florida's state roads.
Some two dozen state governments and other local governments are suing tobacco companies to recover monies spent on treating tobacco-related illnesses.
"It's ironic," said April Herrle, spokeswoman for the governor. "This is a backdoor admission by the industry that nicotine is addictive, something it denies."
She said the state expects the countersuit to be dismissed.
Last week, the tobacco companies were rebuffed by the trial judge in the case when they sought to use the state's cigarette-making record as a partial defense in the approaching trial.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013.
European aircraft consortium Airbus said on Friday it had no evidence that archrival Boeing was putting pressure on U.S. suppliers to prevent them from working on Airbus' planned A3XX large plane.
Daimler-Benz Aerospace (Dasa) chairman, Manfred Bischoff, said on Thursday he was concerned Boeing and merger partner McDonnell Douglas were signalling to a big U.S. subcontractor, understood to be Northrop Grumman, not to work on the Airbus project, newspapers reported.
"We have no evidence of any kind of pressure," an Airbus spokesman said.
But an industry source close to Airbus said Boeing had put pressure on Northrop to stay out of the A3XX project, which threatens Boeing's lucrative monopoly of the high-capacity segment with its 747 jumbo. "It is a fact," he said.
Dasa is a partner in Airbus Industrie, alongside France's Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, and Casa of Spain.
Boeing was not immediately available for comment.
Airbus had been in exploratory talks with Northrop over supplying engine housing sections for the A3XX but those negotiations had ended, the industry source said.
Airbus has been looking for risk-sharing partners to supply up to 40 percent of the targeted $8 billion in the A3XX development costs. The plane would seat 550 passengers in the basic version, which it wants to enter service in 2003.
Airbus managing director Jean Pierson told journalists on Thursday at the Toulouse headquarters that he would lay out Airbus' competition concerns on the Boeing merger when he gives evidence to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European Commission, as expected.
In the long term, the Boeing merger "will pose a problem for Europe's civil aviation industry," he said, adding there would effects in military markets, particularly helicopters.
The industry source said the merged Boeing/McDonnell company would have bigger clout on suppliers, have a wider technology base though its portfolio of patents and gain larger access to indirect state funds for research and development through military programmes.
But Pierson said the merger was inevitable. "The Boeing-McDonnell merger will go ahead," he said.
Airbus is determined to fight back and is holding to its aim of securing a half share of the world passenger plane market by the early part of the next decade. A niche player strategy was doomed to failure, as McDonnell Douglas and Fokker found out, he said.
The consortium needs to field products at the top and bottom end of the range, with respectively the A3XX and a 100-seater plane to be built with China and Singapore, as well as extend the A340 family of long-range jets to compete against Boeing.
Australian industrial conglomerate Pacific Dunlop Ltd reported a heavy fall in net profit on Friday but said the group was now ready to "take off".
Pacific Dunlop posted a 28 percent drop in net profit to A$84 million for the six months to December 31, within stock market forecasts, and its bullish outlook encouraged investors.
"It's right in the middle of expectations but I think the comments that came with the result about the second half were upbeat enough to ensure the stock will go higher," a stockbroker told Reuters.
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind on Saturday flies earlier than expected to Hong Kong where he can expect a tough reception on what may be his last visit before it is handed back to China in July.
Legislators in the territory are gearing up to grill Rifkind on Sunday on the fate of Hong Kong's freedoms and human rights laws after the British colony of more than 150 years reverts to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30.
Rifkind, who was in Singapore this week for a meeting of Asia-Europe meeting, is arriving in Britain's last major Asian outpost on a shortened visit before leaving for London for a key parliamentary vote.
A spokesman for the British Foreign Office mission in Hong Kong said Rifkind's timetable in the colony had been moved forward and he was expected to leave on Monday morning.
On Sunday, Rifkind was expected to meet Hong Kong's future leader, Tung Chee-hwa, Governor Chris Patten's team of executive councillors, legislators and other senior officials.
If he had kept to his orginal schedule, Rifkind would have missed an important parliamentary vote on Monday called by the opposition Labour Party over Agriculture Minister Douglas Hogg's handling of the "mad cow" disease.
But Rifkind's visit to Hong Kong, although short, will be far from easy.
Just 136 days before the handover, Hong Kong is beset with worries over China's plans to replace its elected chamber on July 1 with a provisional legislature, which was formed last December under close Chinese supervision.
The freewheeling territory of 6.3 million people is also concerned about threats to cut back its civil liberties.
"We want Rifkind to clarify on whether there would be two legislatures operating before July 1," said Yeung Sum, deputy head of the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest.
"I think he should make a strong statement on it, because...it is the British and Hong Kong government running the place before July 1. If there are two legislatures running at the same time...it will be very confusing," Yeung said.
The Democratic Party has threatened to sue the provisional chamber should it try to enact laws or operate on Hong Kong soil before July 1.
Britain has also said the move is illegal under a 1984 Sino-British handover treaty on Hong Kong and has challenged China to let the world court rule on the legality of the body.
A pro-China Hong Kong newspaper on Saturday slammed the idea as ridiculous.
"Rifkind recommends letting the world court arbitrate on the provisional legislature. That is ridiculous and laughable," the Wen Hui Pao newspaper said.
It said whatever happened in Hong Kong after July 1 was a matter entirely for China to handle.
Britain's Home Office has warned ethnic minority residents in Hong Kong that they will not get British passports when the colony is handed over to China if they relinquished other passports in order to qualify.
In a statement made available late on Friday, the British government said applicants should be solely British before February 4, when the plan to grant full passports to 8,000 ethnic minority Hong Kong residents was announced.
"This means that anyone voluntarily renouncing another nationality on or after that date will not qualify," it said.
Hong Kong's ethnic minorities had previously faced the threat of becoming stateless when China resumes sovereignty over the British colony of over 150 years at midnight on June 30.
While they will have residency rights in Hong Kong after the handover, it was unclear whether they would be entitled passports of the future Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
But the condition set down by Britain is widely seen as an attempt to plug a loophole after local newspapers reported some ethnic minority residents were ditching their other passports in the hope of qualifying for full British ones.
A prominent business leader in Hong Kong's Indian community on Saturday slammed the February 4 cut-off.
"This is not the right attitude of the British government. They shouldn't give conditions to it. They should give full passports without any clauses," Nari Dadlani told Reuters by telephone.
Dadlani, a naturalised Hong Kong resident of 38 years who holds no other passport, said he would stay on in Hong Kong even if he was to be granted full British citizenship.
"What we need is only an insurance, when emergencies arise. We are not going to take the first flight to London with this passport...we are much more happy here in Hong Kong," he said.
"And even when it comes to that, the Indian community is going to take a lot of capital to the U.K. We are not going to ask for social security and such things," Dadlani said.
In its statement, the British Home Office said necessary legislation would first need to be enacted before those concerned, mostly Indians and Pakistanis, could apply to become British citizens.
Applicants should be ordinarily resident in Hong Kong and they, including spouses and children, must qualify in their own right, it said
Successful applicants would be granted full British citizenship from July 1, the statement said.
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind met future Hong Kong leader Tung Chee-hwa on Sunday for the first time since Tung was chosen but failed to narrow the gulf between the outgoing and incoming governments.
Tung told reporters after the talks that London had refused to budge from its objections to Chinas plans to install an interim appointed legislature and dilute Hong Kongs civil liberties laws, policies Tung endorses and Hong Kongs pro-democracy lobby vociferously opposes.
Rifkind later lashed out at sceptics who argued Britain was impotent against Chinas plans for Hong Kong after the handover at midnight on June 30, a date now just 19 weeks away.
"We will not only maintain maximum pressure until June 30. Through our involvement (in Hong Kong), we will be able to continue to monitor and make public our opinion on the compliance by the Chinese authorities with the Joint Declaration," he told a news conference.
The 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration binds Britain to restoring Hong Kong to China in mid-1997 and China to maintaining Hong Kongs freedoms and capitalist way of life intact for 50 years.
Tung said he still harboured hopes the British would relent and cooperate with Chinas provisional legislature which will replace an elected chamber returned under the auspices of recent democratic reforms spearheaded by the colonial governor, Chris Patten.
"Britains position has always been clear, but I hope they will reconsider," said Tung, a billionaire shipping magnate who was anointed by Beijing in December.
Britain argues that the formation of the provisional legislature, which reverses the Patten reforms, is illegal under the terms of the Joint Declaration.
Rifkinds brief visit, perhaps his last to Hong Kong before the flag comes down on more than 150 years of British colonial rule, was cut short to let him return early to London for a key vote in the British parliament on the "mad cow" crisis.
A loss could trigger a vote of no confidence in the ruling Conservative Party, which is lagging in public opinion polls. A British general election must be held no later than May 22.
Hong Kongs South China Morning Post newspaper, miffed that Rifkind was putting domestic concerns ahead of Hong Kongs problems, headlined its Sunday editorial: "When mad cows matter more than Hong Kong".
With 135 days to the handover, Hong Kong is awash with conflicting emotions which have pitted the pro-Beijing and pro-democracy camps against each other and sparked acrimonious exchanges and counter-accusations.
Tung last week hit out at the Democracy Party, accusing it of blackening Hong Kongs name overseas by spreading doomsday predictions about the loss of freedoms.
He argued that Hong Kongs economy was buoyant, its people upbeat, and he described Chinas plans as mere technicalities.
"This is just the beginning. The way things are going, Tung Chee-hwa and his government-in-waiting will be running out of popularity long before July 1," pro-democracy lawmaker Margaret Ng wrote in a newspaper column on Friday.
Rifkind said Tung would need to show his independence of mind if he wanted to keep the confidence of Hong Kong people.
"He (Tung) is very emphatic that he is not under any direction from the Chinese government that they have not sought to influence his views or to tell him how to behave," Rifkind said of Hong Kongs future leader.
"Wherever his views might differ from those of the Chinese authorities, if they do differ, it would be in his own interest to make that clear, so that his independence is well understood," he added.
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind met future Hong Kong leader Tung Chee-hwa on Sunday for the first time since Tung was chosen but failed to narrow the gulf between the territory's outgoing and incoming governments.
Tung, a shipping magnate anointed by Beijing in December, told reporters after the talks that London had not budged in its refusal to aid a provisional legislature that China would install when the British leave later this year.
"On the work of the provisional legislature, I've urged the Hong Kong government to give assistance and help," Tung said.
"Britain's position has always been clear, but I hope they will reconsider."
Britain argues that the formation of the provisional legislature, set up by a China-appointed panel to replace the elected chamber, is illegal under the terms of the 1984 Sino-British handover treaty on Hong Kong.
Hong Kong reverts to China at midnight on June 30.
Rifkind's brief visit, perhaps his last to Hong Kong before the flag comes down on more than 150 years of British colonial rule of the territory, was cut short to let him return early to London for a key vote in Parliament on the "mad cow" crisis.
A loss could trigger a vote of no confidence in the ruling Conservative Party, which is lagging in the polls. But Hong Kong's South China Morning Post, miffed that Rifkind was putting domestic concerns ahead of Hong Kong's problems, headlined its Sunday editorial: "When mad cows matter more than Hong Kong".
Britain is to hold a general election before May 22, and it is not known who will be at the helm at the time of the handover. But whoever holds the foreign secretary's portfolio in the final days of the countdown can be assured of a bumpy ride.
With 135 days to go until the transition, Hong Kong is awash with conflicting emotions that have pitted the pro-Beijing and pro-democracy camps against each other and sparked acrimonious exchanges.
Tung last week hit out at the Democracy Party, accusing it of blackening Hong Kong's name overseas by spreading doomsday predictions about the loss of freedoms.
He argued that Hong Kong's economy was buoyant, its people upbeat, and described China's plans as mere technicalities.
His comments have hit a raw nerve with the vocal pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong, which argues that a tide of opinion has been rising against what they describe as Tung's increasingly authoritarian policy statements.
"This is just the beginning. The way things are going, Tung Chee-hwa and his government-in-waiting will be running out of popularity long before July 1," pro-democracy lawmaker Margaret Ng wrote in a newspaper column on Friday.
"Mr Tung's ship of state is charting a decidedly retrogressive course," she wrote. "Confidence may yet be restored provided this paranoia about democracy is put aside."
Another symbol of Hong Kong's British heritage passed into the history books during Rifkind's visit.
The 115-year-old Royal Observatory, given its "royal" prefix by King George V in 1912, dropped the royal coat of arms from its emblem. Its new logo has spiralling cloudbanks symbolising typhoons, the fierce storms that periodically pound Hong Kong.
A former chief executive of Australian retail giant Coles Myer Ltd spent millions of dollars of the company's money to renovate his home in a case of 1980s greed and excess, a court heard on Monday.
Brian Quinn, 60, who rose from a junior store assistant to run the country's biggest retailer, went on trial on Monday in the Victoria Supreme Court on a charge of conspiracy to defraud.
Quinn has pleaded not guilty and suggests he was set up.  
The prosecution said on Monday that Quinn conspired to spend around A$4 million of the group's money on renovations to his Melbourne home from 1982 to 1988, expanding and renovating it and building a tennis court, spa and pergola.
Prosecutor Paul Coghlan accused Quinn of excess, saying one room was painted 10 times, the house was extended by 70 square metres and the land was levelled using a rock crusher and surrounded by a double-brick fence.
"This is a case ... about excess in money wasting, excess as to how much work was down, excess as to the materials used, excess as to the hours spent," Coghlan told the jury.
A former chief executive of Australian retail giant Coles Myer Ltd spent millions of dollars of the company's money to renovate his home in a case of 1980s greed and excess, a court heard on Monday.
Brian Quinn, 60, who rose from a junior store assistant to run the country's biggest retailer, went on trial on Monday in the Victoria Supreme Court on a charge of conspiracy to defraud.
Quinn has pleaded not guilty and suggests he was set up.
The prosecution said on Monday that Quinn conspired to spend around A$4.0 million (US$3.0 million) of the group's money on renovations to his Melbourne home from 1982 to 1988, expanding and renovating it and building a tennis court, spa and pergola.
Prosecutor Paul Coghlan accused Quinn of excess, saying one room was painted 10 times, the house was extended by 70 square metres (80 square yards) and the land was levelled using a rock crusher and surrounded by a double-brick fence.
"This is a case...about excess in money wasting, excess as to how much work was down, excess as to the materials used, excess as to the hours spent," Coghlan told the jury.
"But most of all it's a case about greed. It's a case about having your employer paying for your excesses," he added.
The prosecution said Quinn and another former Coles manager, Graham Lanyon, conspired to ensure Coles paid the bills by pretending the work was being done on stores owned by Coles.
"The expenses were largely concealed from his employer, who was meeting the cost," Coghlan said.
Lanyon, as chief of the company's maintenance department, falsified invoices to conceal the fraud but "he did so in collusion with, or on the orders of, the accused man", he added.
But defence lawyer Philip Dunn said Quinn was the victim of a corrupt maintenance department headed by Lanyon and corrupt works contractors. Both concealed costs from Quinn who agreed in 1988 to partly reimburse the company, he told the jury.
"He is as much a victim as the company is," Dunn said.
Quinn's home belonged to Coles until 1985, when he bought it for what prosecutors estimate was about half market value. Prosecutors said that even while Coles owned the house, the work was done without board approval.
"Brian Quinn is charged with stealing from his employer whilst he was living in a company house, which indicates how much of a nonsense and a load of rubbish we believe this case is," Dunn told the jury.
The trial is expected to last eight weeks.
Growing numbers of impoverished women from mainland China are flocking to Hong Kong to work as prostitutes following a deportation policy that is driving away Thai and Filipina women, police said on Monday.
Arrest data supplied by the Royal Hong Kong Police show that mainland Chinese now dominate the prostitution workforce in the sex trade centre of Mongkok, and their numbers are rising to meet demand following the departure of other nationalities.
"You can see the supply curve in the figures," said chief inspector Jonathon Fraser of the Mongkok vice squad in Kowloon.
"We're getting two-way permit holders being brought in from China. Some want to come in, others are duped into it," he told Reuters.
Two-way permits allow Chinese nationals to visit the British colony for strictly limited short periods of time.
Working as a prostitute is not illegal in Hong Kong -- unless the woman is present on a tourist visa. Related activities such as pimping and soliciting are offenses.
The nationality shift in the prostitution workforce is gaining momentum following 1994 policy changes that allowed police to arrest and imprison prostitutes on visitor's visas.
Before 1994, these women -- mainly Thai, Filpina and Malaysian -- were immediately deported but frequently returned to the territory. Fraser said the threat of a prison term is now a powerful disincentive for many of these women to return.
Chinese women are taking their place in the countdown to Hong Kong's return to China on July 1.
Police said they arrested 1,026 two-way permit holders working as prostitutes in Mongkok in 1996 compared with 967 in 1995, 415 in 1994 and 15 in 1993.
Meanwhile, the number of arrests of Filipinas, Thais and Malaysian women fell to 106 in 1996 from 273 in 1995 and 1,196 in both 1994 and 1993.
Many of the mainland Chinese women are supporting families back in China, said Kate Whitehead, a Hong Kong journalist who will have a book about prostitution in the territory published in April.
"They go into prostitution for the money...and the families are very proud of them. They come back with money and the families don't ask any questions," Whitehead said.
"Although there are many mainland women in the south doing this there is a great of difference between what they will do in their hometown and what they will do in Shenzhen or Hong Kong."
Many of the women are from northern China. Prized for their height, slender build, and high cheekbones, these women are making what is, for them, an unimaginable fortune by selling their bodies in Hong Kong.
Police said some women allowed to stay in Hong Kong for only a short period of time try to work as many customers as possible, charging about HK$400 (US$51) an hour.
They take home about half of that amount.
"Some are seeing 20 a day. Obviously, that's a good day and they can't do that every day, but on average they're doing about five a day," Fraser said.
Many of the women are brought in by syndicates, paying as much as HK$20,000 for a two-way permit or agreeing to see 100 customers without pay to earn their passage, Whitehead said.
Many make their way into Hong Kong from Shenzhen, just across the border. Those with papers come in by train while illegal entrants pay a fee to "snakeheads" operating speedboats to drop them off at remote villages in Hong Kong.
Fraser said it's virtually impossible for immigration officials to identify mainland Chinese prostitutes at the border if they are carrying legitimate papers.
($1=HK$7.8)
One year after its dramatic expulsion from the United States, scandal-hit Daiwa Bank is finding its misfortune may in some ways have been a blessing in disguise, analysts say.
The painful fall-out from its $1.1 billion bond-trading loss in the United States, they say, forced the bank to take some of the bitter but necessary restructuring measures that other Japanese banks have been reluctant to swallow.
"Following its expulsion from the United States and inspections by Japan"s Finance Ministry and the Bank of Japan, Daiwa was able to eliminate management risks from its corporate structure," said Yukiko Ohara, a financial analyst at UBS Securities Ltd.
"It (Daiwa) could be a model for restructuring at other banks, which still lack a sense of crisis despite the recent fall in their share prices," she said.
By the end of March, 2000, Daiwa"s restructuring efforts are likely to help boost its annual operating profits above 100 billion yen ($800 million), despite the negative impact of asset reductions overseas, Ohara said. In the year to March 1997 Daiwa forecast operating profits of 80 billion yen ($640 million).
A Daiwa official agreed that the harm done by the bond-loss scandal was not as great as initially expected.
"We feared that we might suffer substantial damage from the withdrawal from U.S. markets," Daiwa bank director Akiyoshi Otani told Reuters in a recent interview. "But the damage was not great.... Our customers stayed calm and have been supporting us."
"The strategies we have taken (since the withdrawal from the United States) have not been wrong," he added.
In November 1995, two months after news broke that a Daiwa trader in New York lost $1.1 billion on unauthorised deals, U.S. bank regulatory authorities ordered Daiwa to shut down its U.S. operations. Daiwa pleaded guilty to charges including conspiracy and fraud and paid a record $340 million in fines.
Japan"s Finance Ministry also placed temporary restrictions on Daiwa"s operations and ordered the institution, Japan"s ninth largest commercial bank, to work out a drastic streamlining programme.
Last April, Daiwa announced a two-year plan to focus on its three strengths: the Kansai area around Osaka in western Japan, where it has a strong customer base, the Asian market, and the trust business, which includes pension fund management. Daiwa manages more pension fund money than any other Japanese bank.
It also decided to shut about 36 offices, including 16 overseas, by March 1999, and by the end of last September had cut its assets to 16.30 trillion yen ($130 billion) from 19.36 trillion yen ($154 billion) a year earlier. Daiwa also plans to reduce the number of its employees by about 2,000 by March 2000, from 9,151 last September.
But some analysts insisted the bank"s restructuring had not gone far enough, noting it was still saddled with 790 billion yen ($6.32 billion) in problem loans, or 7.4 percent of loans outstanding, as of last September.
Yushiro Ikuyo, first vice president at Smith Barney International Inc"s Tokyo branch, added that the expulsion from the United States was bound to damage Daiwa"s future business.
"I doubt whether Daiwa can continue to manage its international business without U.S. operations," he said. "The business environment surrounding Japanese banks will become much tougher and Daiwa must make extra efforts to streamline its business, even halving its assets."
Several analysts have suggested that Daiwa"s woes may force it to combine with another financial institution. Last month, Moody"s Investors Service said Daiwa Bank and Nomura Securities, its largest shareholder, may join under the same holding company.
But Daiwa"s Otani dismissed such talk for now.
"We should not forget that we are still in the process of recovering our creditworthiness.... Although there is talk about mergers or a holding company, this is not an issue for us at the moment," he said. ($=125 yen)
Canada's financial markets gave an approving nod to Finance Minister Paul Martin's stay-the-course 1997/98 budget on Tuesday, with some analysts expecting a modest rally on Wednesday.
In what is expected to be an election year, the Liberal government said it will maintain pressure on the deficit while offering minor tax cuts and new spending.
Economists said Martin's assumptions on interest rates and economic growth were prudent and should enable the government to beat its fiscal targets.
"What you're going to see tomorrow? A flow of funds into the Canadian dollar briefly, quite possibly the bond market, quite possibly the stock market," said Bob Boaz, director of research for HSBC James Capel Canada Inc.
But analysts predicted the markets would settle down quickly as most of the budget details were widely expected.
"There was no big news in this budget. But he (Martin) didn't relax his fiscal resolve and that will be well received by the markets," said John Anania, an economist at Royal Bank of Canada, the country's biggest bank.
The budget had little immediate impact on the Canadian dollar, but currency traders said they expect the unit to strengthen overnight on Martin's favorable deficit targets.
Martin predicted the deficit for 1996/97 would be no more that C$19 billion, compared to a projected C$24.3 billion. The deficit is seen falling to C$17 billion in 1997/98.
In early evening trading, the Canadian dollar firmed slightly to C$1.3534 (US$0.7388) from closing levels at C$1.3546 (US$0.7382).
"We expect the Canadian dollar to appreciate overnight as a result of the positive budget," said John Nicholson, managing director of Scotia Capital Markets.
Canadian bonds strengthened shortly after the budget's release as the market welcomed news of only modest new spending initatives.
Some bond analysts expressed concern that Martin did not set a target for balancing the country's books, but overall they expected a neutral reaction to the budget on Wednesday.
"He's made some extremely conservative assumptions, we believe, with interest rates and growth that lead us to conclude he will continue to outperform his own targets," said Hank Cunningham, director of fixed income with First Marathon Securities.
The budget is expected to be well received on Canada's biggest stock market on Wednesday, after the Toronto Stock Exchange enjoyed record gains on Tuesday, analysts said.
Before the budget's release, the TSE's key 300 index posted its ninth record close of 1997, up 20 points to 6238.22. Trading was heavy with turnover of 138.4 million shares worth C$2.52 billion, the TSE's second highest value ever.
Martin did not impose new corporate, personal or excise tax increases, but the government did extend a special capital tax on Canada's big banks for another year.
British insurers said on Tuesday they would require those wishing to take out new life insurance policies to reveal the results of genetic tests.
But the Association of British Insurers (ABI) said it would not ask people to take genetic tests when applying for life insurance for the next two years.
The policy statement, backed by all 440 ABI member companies, was a response to rapid developments in the area of genetics in recent years.
While still in its infancy, there is the possibility that new genetic tests will soon be developed that will be able to predict the chances of someone contracting certain diseases or their life expectancy.
Many U.S. companies already require applicants for insurance to undergo genetic testing. At present, Britons are asked to give results of tests they have undergone but are not asked to take tests to qualify for insurance.
Doctors can already diagnose the most common single gene defects such as muscular dystrophy and cystic fibrosis and screen for an individual's susceptibility to certain cancers.
Experts say it will soon be possible to predict the risk of more common disorders such as diabetes or rheumatoid athritis.
The ABI specifically pointed out Huntington's disease, a rare and untreatable hereditary disease that usually does not show up until middle age.
It is characterised by involuntary twitching and causes mental deterioration and eventual death.
Tuesday's announcement is likely to raise fears that an underclass may be created of people unable to insure themselves because of their genetic make-up.
But a spokesman for the ABI dismissed this possibility and said if new tests became available they were likely to benefit people, enabling them to adjust their lifestyles to the risks they run of heart and other diseases.
One expert on the ethics of genetics testing called the decision a good compromise.
"I very much welcome this decision because it seems to me to strike a balance between the private interests of individuals and the interests of insurance companies," said Ruth Chadwick, a University of Central Lancashire geneticist who coordinates Euro-Screen, a committee watching such developments.
Not requiring tests protected individuals, she said, while forcing people to disclose tests prevented those with genetic defects from taking out policies hoping for big payoffs.
But Chadwick warned: "There is a danger that genetic predisposition will be thought of as predicting conditions, which it is not."
Actuaries said they were concerned the debate on health insurance and genetic testing had barely started.
A statement from actuaries' professional organisations noted that Britain's National Health Service accepted good or bad risks without extra charge.
"The profession does not favour legislation on the use of genetic tests as it feels that no case has yet been made for such severe action nor has society discussed how commonplace such tests will be in future medicine," it said.
Genetic tests detrimental to applicants for life insurance up to a total of 100,000 pounds ($160,000) will be ignored where the insurance is linked to a new home mortgage under the new policy.
For new applications for other life insurance policies, individual companies will decide whether they wish to take account of the results of genetic tests previously taken.
($ = 0.621 British Pounds)
Britons wishing to take out new life insurance policies will have to reveal the results of genetic tests under a new industry policy announced by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) on Tuesday.
But life insurers will not ask people to take genetic tests when applying for life insurance under the scheme, which will run for the next two years.
The policy statement is backed by all 440 ABI member companies and is a response to the rapid developments in the area of genetics in recent years.
While still in its infancy, there is the possibility that new genetic tests will soon be developed which will be able to predict the chances of someone contracting certain diseases or their life expectancy.
Many U.S. companies already require applicants for insurance to undergo genetic testing. At present, Britons are asked to give results of tests they have undergone but are not asked to take tests to qualify for insurance.
Doctors can already diagnose the most common single gene defects such as muscular dystrophy and cystic fibrosis and screen for an individual's susceptibility to certain cancers.
Experts say it will soon be possible to predict the risk of more common disorders such as diabetes or rheumatoid athritis.
Tuesday's announcement is likely to raise fears that an underclass may be created of people unable to insure themselves because of their genetic make-up.
But a spokesman for the ABI dismissed this possibility and said if new tests became available they were likely to benefit people, enabling them to adjust their lifestyles to the risks they run of heart and other diseases.
The ABI said insurance companies did not wish to be perceived as delaying the development of genetic science and said the statement represented a "very carefully considered and responsible contribution" to the challenges presented by genetic developments.
"It is important that insurance companies continue to see the results of genetic tests so they can monitor developments and gauge any financial impact on their company," it said.
Actuaries noted the long-awaited statement of policy by the ABI, saying they were concerned the debate on health insurance and genetic testing had barely started.
A statement from actuaries' professional organisations noted that Britain's National Health Service accepted good or bad risks without extra charge.
"The profession does not favour legislation on the use of genetic tests as it feels that no case has yet been made for such severe action nor has society discussed how commonplace such tests will be in future medicine," it said.
Genetic tests detrimental to applicants for life insurance up to a total of 100,000 pounds ($160,000) will be ignored where the insurance is linked to a new mortgage under the new policy.
For new applications for other life insurance policies, individual companies will decide whether or not they wish to take account of the results of genetic tests previously taken.
Insurers are considering collating information where genetic test results are given to help with future policy development.
The policy will be fully reviewed in 1999 to take account of future developments in genetics ($ = 0.621 British Pounds)
Britain's Britannic Assurance declared on Tuesday a 209 million pound ($336 million) special bonus for life insurance policies, following discussions with the government on ownership of surplus insurance funds.
The payout will apply to all "with profits" policies in force on February 17, 1997. Details will be given with the 1996 bonus due to be announced next month.
The company said last year it discussing with the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ownership of long-term assets, and a way to distribute the surplus to policyholders and shareholders.
Britannic has now agreed with the DTI that 902 million pounds of the excess assets within the long term fund can be attributable to shareholders.
Britannic also said it intended to increase its dividend for the year by 82 percent to 23 pence per share following an increase in life profits. This would be the basis for continuing the company's progressive dividend policy.
The news boosted Britannic shares, which jumped 71 pence, or nearly nine percent, at one stage before settling for a rise of 29 pence at 832.5.
The money attributable to shareholders forms part of total assets in the life funds which amounted to 5.682 billion pounds at the end of 1995.
Those assets were estimated to have risen by the end of 1996, Britannic chief executive Brian Shaw said, and updated figures would be released on March 18.
Britannic also announced a restructuring of its long-term funds and the results of a strategic review of its business.
The review will lead to new sales management and premium collection systems, streamlining of head office and investment in market analysis and product research.
The initiatives are expected to cut operating costs by around 25 million pounds, based on 1995 figures.
Britannic said it planned to build on its brand, investment management and distribution skills, financial strength and product development abilities to strengthen its position and improve value to policy and shareholders.
Restructuring the long-term fund will create two continuing "with profits" funds, one for its industrial branch and the other for the ordinary branch -- life and pensions business.
In future at least 90 percent of the surplus in the with profits funds will be allocated each year to with profits policies. The balance will be shareholders' profit for transfer to the profit and loss account.
The company has also created two separate non-profit sub funds -- one for life, one for pensions -- which will contain non-profits business and both of which will be owned by shareholders.
The shareholder transfer for 1996 will be increased by 23 million pounds following the declaration of the 209 million pound special bonus. ($ = 0.621 British Pounds)
Pegged currencies are common in Asia, with its fondness for order and authoritarianism.
But to peg one's currency is always a drastic step with heavy consequences. While a fixed exchange rate might reassure foreign investors about currency stability, it can also prompt a slew of unruly side effects.
"What you ultimately sacrifice is your control over inflation," said Alan Butler-Henderson, regional strategist with ING Barings in Hong Kong.
Hong Kong, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Philippines, Singapore and China all peg their currencies directly or indirectly to the U.S. dollar, requiring all them to mimic U.S. monetary policy to a greater or lesser extent regardless of domestic conditions.
Most of these economies bear no relation at all to the slow-growth, low-inflation United States. Instead, they are experiencing high growth and a rapid increase in domestic consumption at the same time -- an ideal recipe for inflation.
The lack of traditional inflation-fighting tools is a serious loss for countries anxious to avoid any erosion of often hard-earned economic progress.
SERIOUS PENALTIES
There are other, serious penalties, too.
A lucrative interest rate arbitrage can cause real problems for small Asian countries with fixed exchange rates. Best described as borrow low, lend high, the most common arbitrage tends to attract precisely the sort of capital inflows most small, Asian countries dread: so-called "hot money."
Large financial institutions with access to the best international lending rates deposit borrowed funds into Asian banks offering much higher yields and, because of the fixed exchange rate, avoid currency loss when they switch out.
Higher rates offer bigger returns, which attract even larger flows of hot money that swell money supply dramatically. Attempts by central banks to curb money supply by raising rates can have the reverse effect, luring in more hot, volatile money.
Both Thailand and Indonesia are familiar with this danger.
One economist noted that Indonesia has offered one of the best arbitrage opportunities in Asia for as long as it has depreciated its currency by between three and five percent annually, but the returns were particularly spectacular last year.
Speculators and hedge funds borrowed large sums in Japanese yen at about 0.75 percent annually and switched them into Indonesian bank accounts yielding 15 percent -- or more when riots swept through Jakarta in the summer.
"In terms of cost of funds, when you take the currency depreciation of the yen and the mild depreciation of the rupiah into account, you're paying nothing," the economist said.
The problem became so acute last year that Indonesia's central bank was forced to widen repeatedly the trading band for the rupiah, taking the market by surprise.
"The point of widening the fluctuation is to impart greater uncertainty so that it's not a freebie," said Sun Bae Kim, senior economist at Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong.
Indonesia also ordered its commercial banks to stop lending on occasion, even though soaring rates and strong loan demand offered excellent returns.
THE THAI EXPERIENCE
Thailand, which pegs its beleaguered baht to a basket of currencies including the U.S. dollar, tried to turn this arbitrage to its advantage by setting up the Bangkok International Banking Facility (BIBF) in 1993.
The plan, much admired by Asian experts, back-fired when Moody's Investors Service downgraded Thailand's short-term debt rating, drawing attention to its foreign liabilities.
The negative attention helped to fuel rampant speculation about a devaluation of the baht, forcing massive intervention by Thailand's central bank to keep the unit above a 6-1/2-year low.
Under the BIBF, a number of foreign and domestic banks were allowed to borrow foreign currency overseas, usually in U.S. dollars, and then lend the money in Thailand.
The scheme was a huge success. Foreign investors, already benefiting from competitive rates, also qualified for preferential tax treatment and rushed to invest in Thailand.
"Without those tax incentives and the access to cheap loans - U.S. dollars are by definition cheaper than Thailand (baht) - those companies would not be attracted to Thailand," said Clive McDonnell, chief economist at Crosby Group.
BIBF flows were used primarily for long-term investment, but international accounting rules required that they be classifed as short-term. This generated a sudden explosion in Thailand's short-term external debt to 63.3 percent of private sector debt in 1995 compared with 20.5 percent in 1993 -- a situation that quickly came to Moody's attention.
Asian economists defended the scheme while acknowledging its risks. Salomon Brothers noted that Thailand's foreign exchange reserves of US$38 billion far exceed outstanding short-term loans of US$16.1 billion.
And Moody's rival, Standard and Poor's, pointed out that many BIBF loans are backed by foreign banks rather than domestic financial institutions.
"Foreign BIBFs are probably less vulnerable to shifts in investor confidence, because their parent banks are more likely to stand behind them should unaffiliated lenders withdraw their credit lines," Standard &amp; Poor's said. "Moreover, obligations of foreign-owned BIBFs are not a contingent liability of the Thai government, given their foreign ownership."
There is no question that the BIBF helped to lift foreign liabilities in Thailand's banking sector, but the underlying causes of the banks' asset quality problems were more commonly blamed on a weak property sector, economic recession, political turmoil and a gaping current account deficit.
Recent attacks on the baht were precipitated by concern about how to finance the current account following projections of a fourth-quarter fiscal deficit.
But analysts said the foreign liability created by the BIBF will probably provide further motivation for the central bank to defend the currency. And a sustained defence will require action on those asset quality problems.
"This means shutting down insolvent institutions and building the capital base of viable ones. The longer the delay in formulating such a plan, the greater will be the baht's susceptibility to speculative attacks," Goldman Sachs said.
Central bank independence is not usually a hot topic in Hong Kong but the territory has been debating the subject with vigour just 19 weeks before its return to China.
Remarks by chief executive-designate Tung Chee-hwa stirred up a subject that raises blood pressures around the world when he said changes were possible in the reporting structure at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
Tung, who takes over from Governor Chris Patten on July 1 when Britain cedes control of the colony to China, seemed to suggest that at some point, the head of the HKMA could be required to report directly to the chief executive rather than to the Financial Secretary.
"There is now already a structure for the future as to who the head of the Monetary Authority reports to," Tung said, when pressed by reporters on Wednesday.
"As to whether this is the right structure for the future, that's something we can really examine."
Hong Kong's reaction to the comments was largely negative even though most experts acknowledge the HKMA's powers are much more limited than those of central banks in developed nations, where political interference is viewed with high suspicion.
"It struck me that one might want an additional layer between the chief executive and the head of the central bank," said Eric Nickerson, head of currency at Bank of America.
Politics, not economics, is driving the debate, said one economist. The HKMA's primary function is not to set monetary policy but to manage the Hong Kong dollar, which is pegged at HK$7.80 to the U.S. currency.
"This is just a political game," he said. "The HKMA is a manager rather than a policy-maker."
The HKMA has never experienced political interference in monetary management, said HKMA chief executive Joseph Yam.
"If anybody were to come and tell me to do something about, for example, unemployment or inflation or growth in the economy, I would just say 'No,' this is not my responsibility," Yam said in a speech in Tokyo on Tuesday.
The HKMA was formed in 1993 by merging the government department responsible for managing Hong Kong's reserves with the Office of the Commissioner of Banking.
With this as its primary function, the influence of the HKMA on the domestic economy is limited.
"I don't see the need to change the existing system. It seems to be working very well," said Ken Chan, senior economist at Nikko Securities.
Chan also noted that Hong Kong enjoyed excellent relations with the People's Bank of China, the Chinese central bank, which has repeatedly stated its commitment to the Hong Kong dollar peg and Hong Kong's continued monetary independence.
The lack of any clear advantage of change has led to speculation that personalities are at stake.
By removing the HKMA from the Financial Secretariat, the government would seriously constrain the influence of the outspoken Financial Secretary, Donald Tsang.
Meanwhile, there are reports that Yam will be appointed one of Tung's principal officers in his new Secretariat.
A Hong Kong government spokesman denied that Tsang's relationship with Tung was tense, and said any changes to the reporting structure at the HKMA was something to be decided by the government of the new Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong following the transition.
Tung declined to elaborate on his remarks on Wednesday.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Stock market gyrations on the rumoured ill-health of China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping were welcomed by many Asian fund managers on Wednesday.
Although many Asian markets have regained much of the ground lost on Tuesday when the rumours hit, the remaining discount suggests any announcement of Deng's death will now have limited effect, they said.
"This place is rife with rumour," said Christopher Day, managing director at Thornton Management (Asia) Ltd. "By the time an announcement comes, it will have been discounted."
Some immediate reaction is inevitable, and it may not be restricted to Asian markets, said Stewart Aldcroft, sales director at Templeton.
But that response will not last, particularly in Hong Kong.
"There will be some short-term selling that will reflect the sentiment of the occasion, but ultimately an ideal buying opportunity will have been presented," he said.
Tina So, associate director at Schroders Investment Management, said Hong Kong is still trading at a sizable discount to other Asian markets at 13.5-times 1997 earnings.
"When you invest in an equity market you are looking for participation in overall economic growth and profitability, and the undertone of the economy is very positive," she said.
Generally, fund managers said Hong Kong could correct to 12,500 but stage a fast recovery within hours. The Hang Seng index closed 3.38 points higher at 13,106.32 on Wednesday after plunging to 12,933.98 when the rumours hit on Tuesday.
In Taiwan, Shanghai and Shenzhen, the picture is a little different, partly because these markets have performed so strongly in recent months, but also because of their direct sensitivity to political factors in China, funds said.
After reaching a six-year high of 7,687.18 on Monday, the Taiwan market dropped sharply when the Tuesday rumours and comments by central bankers prompted a bout of profit-taking.
While local investors expect to see further strength, foreign investors restricted to owning a minority share of the market warned a Deng announcement could signal more weakness.
"Taiwan have been coming up quite nicely, it's a bit overbought, and Taiwan is traditionally very suspicious of political changes in China," said So.
Thornton's Day said shares on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges are also likely to take a tumble.
"It's a more direct concern, and an excuse to take profits," he said. "They've both got good excuses because they've gone up so sharply."
But the rest of Asia will continue marching to its own drumbeat, often ignoring major news and international market action in favour of domestic news and sentiment, funds said.
Compared to much of Asia, China has done an excellent job of managing the political risk associated with the succession issue, said David Semple, regional strategist at Peregrine Asset Management in Hong Kong.
While China, along with many other nations, has no formal mechanism in place for succession, president Jiang Zemin's prominent and clear leadership position has mitigated much of the uncertainty associated with Deng's death, he said.
"The political power has already been transferred. It happened a long time ago. So it's not really going to affect the way we invest our funds -- other than perhaps providing a very short-term buying opportunity," Semple said.
While some fund managers suggested the rumours were placed by market players keen to create buying opportunities, others said the timing of an announcement now made sense.
"It's come at a significantly better time than maybe a few years ago, and possibly even 12 months ago when they were lobbing bombs across the Taiwan Strait," one fund manager said.
Deng was last seen in public three years ago.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Scottish Amicable on Thursday asked for firm offers for the company to be tabled by the end of February as it emerged that more potential bidders had joined the auction for the mutually-owned insurance group.
Three companies were already known to have signed confidentiality agreements which give access to ScotAm's books - Abbey National, Prudential Corp and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP).
But a source close to the deal said that others had also signed the agreements and that potential bidders were now "certainly more than three."
ScotAm said that all interested parties would be requested to table firm offers by February 28.
A spokesman for ScotAm declined to comment on either the number or the identity of companies who had signed the confidentiality agreements.
One possibility is Dutch insurance group Aegon whose acquistion of Scottish Equitable has already demonstrated its ability to provide extra capital to develop the business according to industry experts.
Another firm rumoured to have contemplated a bid, Belgian-Dutch insurer Fortis is reported to have ruled a bid out and Lloyds TSB said earlier this week it was not interested in bidding.
Lloyds chief executive Peter Ellwood said that the company had run a slide-rule over ScotAm but that the bid premium looked too high.
Meanwhile, The Scotsman newspaper on Thursday reported that AMP is considering moving its Bristol-based subsidiary London Life to Scotland if its Scottish Amicable bid is successful.
The paper said that AMP would use Scotland to expand into Europe, and that it placed considerable importance on the Glasgow office of Scottish Amicable Investment Managers (SAIM).
The Prudential and Abbey National are believed to have plans to downscale or close SAIM, the paper said.
Following the receipt of bids, ScotAm will hold further discussions after which bidders will be required to submit final, binding proposals.
At the end of the process, the board will recommend a single proposal and an announcement of the recommended acquiror is expected to be made by the end of March.
Under the terms of the confidentiality agreements the decision of the board is final.
"We believe the process we are publishing today will maximise value for policyholders and will be seen to have done so," ScotAm's chairman Sandy Stewart said.
In a move which may help deflect criticism of the sealed bid process, ScotAm said it would make firm offers public, if required to do so by a bidder.
In addition, the Department of Trade &amp; Industry and an independent actuary will be consulted fully prior to the announcement of the recommended offer.
ScotAm will also outline the board's reasons for its recommendation, the criteria used and summarise the relevant information on all "competitive proposals".
The circular to policyholders outlining the final bid is likely some time in May.
Abbey National sparked the auction at the end of January when it announced it was prepared to pay up to 1.4 billion pounds for ScotAm, barely two weeks after ScotAm unveiled its own proposals to drop mutual status and float on the stock market.
The Abbey offer was topped a week later by the Pru's 1.9 billion bid.
Both companies have said that their offers may be raised when they have more detailed financial information on ScotAm.
Lloyd's of London said on Thursday it had been granted judgements in two test cases against members who had failed to pay debts under the insurance market's reconstruction and renewal (R&amp;R) settlement.
The defendants, Dennis Leighs and David Wilkinson, had claimed they were not liable to pay their premium to Equitas, the company set up to reinsure and run-off pre-1993 liabilities of Lloyd's syndicates.
But the judge, Mr Justice Colman, said that they had failed to establish that any of the grounds argued represented "arguable defences or, if these actions were permitted to go to trial, would have any realistic prospect of success".
Lloyd's welcomed the decision and said it would now be pursuing other non-acceptors.
"This judgement enables Lloyd's to pursue all non-acceptors of the settlement who have argued that they are not obliged to pay their Equitas premium," said Philip Holden, head of Lloyd's financial recovery department.
"Our pursuit will be vigorous and, by virtue of this judgement, will be effective."
He said it was in the interests of all members that Lloyd's now proceeded to recover all outstanding debts.
It originally brought proceedings against three Names but dropped one because of concern over the defendant's age and ill health.
Under the terms of R&amp;R and at the discretion of the Council of Lloyd's, members who have not yet accepted have until February 28 to do so.
The rights to settlement credits or benefits, lost due to non-acceptance may also be reinstated at the discretion of the Council.
Australian aluminium producer Comalco Ltd is expected to report a nose-dive in net profit for calendar 1996 after prices and exchange rates turned against it.
Comalco, owned 67 percent by RTZ Corp Plc-CRA Ltd, is predicted on average to post a pre-abnormal net profit of A$33 million, a fraction of the A$264.8 million it earned in 1995, according to the Barceps forecasting service.
The bottom line may even dip itself in red ink after a net abnormal loss of A$40 million stemming from Comalco's November decision to end kaolin production, two analysts told Reuters.  
Comalco, which posted a net profit after abnormals of A$232.3 million in 1995, was Asia's biggest supplier of kaolin clay, used in paper manufacturing.
The company has already warned of a dismal second six months of 1996.
In December it forecast a second-half loss and admitted prices and exchange rates were not entirely to blame.
Higher smelting costs also figured in Comalco's warning to the stock market, particularly at its New Zealand plant, which is being upgraded to expand annual production at the Tiwai Point plant by 40,000 tonnes to about 313,000 tonnes.  
"They have seriously screwed up their costs," one Melbourne-based analyst told Reuters.
The analyst compared Comalco's performance with a relative minnow, Capral Ltd, which he said earned a profit before interest and tax from a smelting base a third the size.
"And they (Capral) don't have the upstream businesses which Comalco do, which are profitable," the analyst said, referring to Comalco's bauxite mining and alumina refining businesses.
But analysts agreed weak aluminium prices and a strong Australian dollar did the overwhelming majority of the damage to Comalco's bottom line in 1996.  
The average LME three-month aluminium price fell 16 percent, or 21 percent in Australian-dollar terms, in 1996. It was 83 U.S. cents per pound over 1995, but slipped to 73 cents for the first half of 1996. It was around 66 cents in the second half.
The market was unkind in other ways.
Comalco's price premiums in Asia also came under pressure as weak demand in Europe prompted European and Middle East smelters to dump aluminium on the company's traditional market, said analyst Umit Safak, of HSBC James Capel.
An appreciating Australian dollar also inflicted pain.  
But analysts are forecasting a strong return to profit in 1997, with the Australia dollar already sitting well below its peak of over 80 U.S. cents in December and the aluminium price back up to around 76 cents per pound.
"The outlook is positive and I am optimistic," one Sydney-based analyst told Reuters, citing earnings growth from Comalco's half-owned Boyne Island smelter in Queensland state.
A third pot line is being added to the smelter, adding over 217,000 tonnes to its annual output from mid 1997. Comalco's share of production was 130,157 tonnes in 1996.
Comalco is due to report its results on Monday.  
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Hong Kong lined up on Thursday to pay its respects to China's dead leader Deng Xiaoping.
Colonial Governor Chris Patten was one of the first to be escorted inside the Xinhua news agency, Beijing's de facto mission in Hong Kong, to offer his condolences. Deng died late on Wednesday at the age of 92.
"I have written to director Zhou Nan, the head of the New China News Agency (Xinhua), expressing my condolences and of course if there is a condolence book opened I will want to sign that with the senior members of my administration," Patten told reporters before going in.
Asked if he would sent flowers, he replied: "I don't think that would be appropriate."
There has been little love lost between Government House and Xinhua during Patten's four-and-a-half-year tenure as the 28th and last British Governor of Hong Kong.
China denounced Patten as a political prostitute, a criminal for one thousand years and worse for spearheading democratic reforms in the twilight of British rule.
China plans to undo his reforms by dissolving Hong Kong's elected legislature and replacing it with an interim appointed chamber.
Patten was followed on Thursday by the man who will step into his shoes when the colony is handed over to China at the stroke of midnight on June 30, now just 131 days away.
Future leader Tung Chee-hwa, flanked by members of his inner cabinet, bowed three times to a large black and white photograph of Deng.
Hong Kong's politically powerful billionaires and new generation of pro-Beijing politicians turned up in force and were reverently ushered in.
An elderly couple, however, jumped the gun.
They turned up early in the morning, before Xinhua had managed to make arrangements for mourners for the man whose reforms transformed China from a weak, impoverished nation to an emerging economic powerhouse.
They were told to come back in the afternoon.
Five demonstrators staged a brief protest against Deng who they described as "the Butcher of Beijing" for his role in the brutal crushing of the student-led pro-democracy movement centred on Beijing's Tiananmen Square on June 4, 1989.
"One man has just died, but so many are mourning for him. Don't forget the number of people who died on June 4," they said.
Japan's depressed real estate market is unlikely to get much immediate help for its problems despite market euphoria over possible state purchases of land once owned by troubled financial firms, analysts said.
Tokyo's key stock index surged on Thursday, led by property-related issues, after a newspaper report saying the government was considering using public funds to buy collateralised land formerly owned by failed mortgage firms and other troubled financial firms.
The index, the Nikkei 225, ended up 2.43 percent at 19,051.71, its first close above 19,000 points for more than a month.
A Finance Ministry official told Reuters a government panel was considering using funds already set aside in the next state budget to buy land formerly owned by troubled financial firms.
Vice Finance Minister Tadashi Ogawa later confirmed the possibility, telling a news conference it was possible public-sector firms may purchase such land.
He said the plan would help ease the liquidity crisis affecting real estate.
A government panel, whose members include officials from the ministries of finance, construction and justice and the National Land Agency, was set up last October to tackle the tough issue of collecting problem loans for which land is being held as collateral.
At present, firms cannot afford to sell at market levels since they would realise their huge losses caused by the collapse of the "bubble" economy early this decade.
This has led to stagnation in the real estate market and kept the massive problem hanging over the whole financial sector.
"The panel has been discussing how to increase liquidity in the real estate market to facilitate collection of such problem loans," said an official at a bank involved in the discussions.
"But we have not talked about any details yet."
However, he said that if the government decided to buy such collateralised land, it would have a positive impact since the private sector remained reluctant to buy land.
Jesper Koll, an economist at JP Morgan Securities Asia, said public land buying was not a new initiative and no new funds were likely to be allocated for the purchases.
However, he said that more important than any public purchases was Hashimoto's promise to speed up the process of turning real estate into equity assets.
"The faster banks and real estate companies are allowed to securitise property assets, the greater their prospects for increased income generation," he said. "Prime Minister Hashimoto is getting serious about fixing Japan's real estate problem sooner, not later."
Yoshinobu Yamada, a financial analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc, said that while the move by the government panel on land was not a new initiative, it would have a positive impact in the long-term.
"The government is well aware that it must take steps to stop falling land prices," he said, adding that a lack of land liquidity was at the core of Japan's bad-loan mess.
"If the government buys collateralised land formerly owned by jusen, this is likely to give psychological support to the the real estate markets and help the markets bottom out."
However, he said no concrete policy steps would be available until March so that the current euphoria on the Tokyo's stock market could be only a passing fancy.
Hong Kong business groups on Thursday lauded Deng Xiaoping as a great leader but said the short-term impact of his passing would be limited.
"He was a great man. We are naturally saddened from a human point of view. But as regards business, I have to say it's business as usual," said Brigadier Christopher Hammerbeck, executive director of the British Chamber of Commerce.
The paramount leader won high praise from businessmen in Hong Kong for his economic reforms and for developing the "one country, two systems" policy which will prevail when sovereignty of Hong Kong reverts to China at midnight on June 30 under the terms of a 1984 Sino-British treaty.
"He was a great man of vision," said Ian Christie, director of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce.
"The 'one country, two systems' approach to the transfer of sovereignty, at that time, in 1984, showed incredible foresight and courage."
Given his contribution, it would have been better for all concerned if Deng had been able to witness the Hong Kong handover of July 1, said Mark Michelson, past chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce.
"He made it a lot easier for the transition to take place," Michelson said. "At the same time, there has been a leadership succession in place for some time now associated with the transition. So...the practical impact will not be overwhelming."
The collective leadership now in place, led by President Jiang Zemin, has also been associated with the Hong Kong handover, Michelson said.
"So in the short-term there should be no impact, but in China one can never be sure," he said.
Most business groups declined to speculate on the longer term implications of Deng's death.
Hong Kong's South China Morning Post newspaper fretted over a possible power struggle emerging in Beijing.
"Although Deng's death is unlikely to result in a major immediate policy shift over Hong Kong, changes in the corridors of power in Beijing will spill over into the territory," the Post said.
Hong Kong's government-funded Trade Development Council said Deng will not be forgotten for his contribution to the territory's ascent up the world trade league tables.
"If one were to take a look in 1979, the year China began economic reform, at that time Hong Kong was number 23 in the world league of trading entities. Today we are number eight," said executive director Michael Sze.
Deng is credited with the open door reforms which transformed China from an isolated economic backwater to emerging powerhouse.
"That just shows the tremendous progress we have made during the intervening years."
Hong Kong trade, now valued in excess of US$350 billion ($44.9 billion), is heavily dependent upon southern China where Hong Kong manufacturers own and operate 50,000 factories employing five million workers.
The gradual shift of Hong Kong's manufacturing base into the cheaper labour regions of southern China transformed the territory into a service-based economy geared to China's economic emergence.
Chinese flags flew at half mast across Hong Kong, Thursday morning newspapers were delayed and pupils at "patriotic" pro-Beijing schools stood in silence after news that China's patriarch Deng Xiaoping had died.
"Deng Dead," screamed banner headlines in Hong Kong's Hong Kong's newspapers when they eventually appeared. All devoted acres of newsprint to the life and times of China's paramount leader, who had wanted to visit Hong Kong after it was reunited with China in July this year.
"Come later. Lots of papers are changing their main sections," a newspaper hawker told early commuters en route to Hong Kong's Central business district.
Deprived of reading matter many plugged in their headphones and switched between different Hong Kong radio stations.
Some expressed grief but many inhabitants of the British colony of Hong Kong took Deng's demise in their stride.
"I couldn't sleep well the whole night. He was a great leader of our nation. He improved China," said Ko Chiu, 80, who was among a group of elderly practioners of Tai Chi, or Chinese shadow boxing.
But another elderly resident Auyeung Pak, 85, paused from his slow jog in a Hong Kong park to shrug off Deng's death.
"It's normal for a man of that old age. I'm not too sad."
Chinese flags at China's de facto mission in Hong Kong, the Xinhua News Agency, flew at half-mast.
Pupils at the Piu Kiu Middle School, which follows a mainland Chinese curriculum, observed a minute's silence.
Some analysts have predicted Deng's death will create uncertainty in Hong Kong, threatening stability during its delicate transition to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30, 1997, a date now 131 days away.
But there was scant sign of much emotion in the business district.
"It's business as usual," said an employee of the state-owned bank of China as he hurried into the bank's futuristic highrise headquarters.
He's lucky to have lived for so long," said a 55-year-old women, pausing briefly in her tai chi regime.
A camera-toting Taiwanese tourist, accompanied by her two young daughters, said she did not care.
"I don't feel anything. I heard it early this morning."
Shareholders in Anglo-American conglomerate Hanson Plc Friday overwhelmingly approved the final part of the group's ambitious four-way split-up.
The approval clears the way for its Energy Group division to be spun off on Monday. About 98 percent of shareholders voted for the plan.
The vote ended an era that saw Hanson, under takeover king Lord Hanson and his late partner Lord White, become a star performer in the 1980s as it grew into one of Britain's largest conglomerates.
But with a stock market that showed its mistrust of conglomerates by sharply marking down their shares, Hanson last January announced that it would tear itself up into separate tobacco, chemicals, energy and building companies.
Energy has two main parts, U.S.-Australian Peabody Coal, the world's largest private coal producer, and Eastern, Britain's fourth-largest electricity generator and distribution business.
Analysts said the company has good growth prospects but is difficult to value because of its diversity.
"I genuinely think if there is a chance of growth this is it, but valuing Energy is difficult because it is a very different animal from other utility stocks," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
David Campbell, an analyst at Craig Middleton, said he forecasts earnings growth of around 12 percent annually over the next two years.
Analysts said the potential for using electricity expertise to help Peabody Coal expand in this area in the United States could help Energy's growth.
"Peabody could be the most interesting. It's a clear chance to expand into electricity in the U.S.," one said.
Energy has already said it is mulling a string of acquisitions in Britain and North America and has started talks with a U.S. power marketing company.
The company will join a British electricity sector that has been whittled down by take-overs over the last two years as regional electric companies were bought, leaving just two out of an original twelve created at privatissation in 1990.
There has been some speculation Peabody Coal could be spun off from the British electricity interests, but on Friday, Hanson chairman Lord Hanson ruled this out.
"No, I have had enough of demergers (split-ups) and I think (the two) fit very well together," he replied to a shareholder question.
The group, which is expected to start with market value of around 2.8 billion pounds ($4.5 billion) and is being sold with 1.4 billion pounds of debt ($2.3 billion), will be large enough to rank among Britain's biggest blue-chip companies and America's Fortune 500. Shares of the company will be listed in London and New York.
The split-up will give shareholders one Energy share for every 10 existing Hanson shares held. Every eight shares in the remaining Hanson group will be consolidated into one new share at the same time.
Hanson's first two split-ups, of Britain's Imperial Tobacco Group Plc and U.S.-listed Millennium Chemicals Inc., took place last October.
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on Friday urged Congress to modernise U.S. financial laws but warned that some government oversight must be maintained to avert financial catastrophes.
A top priority of regulators, Greenspan said after a speech at a Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta conference here, is to prevent "systemic risk," where a problem in one firm or market spreads through the financial system and ultimately undermines the entire economy.
If a bankruptcy or market crash cannot be contained, it could behave like a chain reaction spreading through all markets, he warned.
The failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert in the 1980s, for example, raised fears that its collapse would cause a cascade of failures among large Wall Street firms and commercial banks that had lent funds to Drexel. But the firm was liquidated in an orderly fashion and losses did not spread.
Using its existing authority to oversee banks and provide loans, the Federal Reserve has been able to contain previous crises, Greenspan said. "There have been occasions when we have been on the edge of a significant breakout," he said, but declined to name the institutions involved.
The Fed's actions and other rules governing financial firms "turned out to be adequate to stem the atomic erosion," he said, returning to the nuclear analogy.
"Regulation, by its very nature, becomes increasingly obsolete," Greenspan said. "Regulation imposed in an earlier period would be wholly or partly inappropriate for something that evolves at a later date."
Congress is currently considering several bills to reform laws governing banks, which would affect the Fed, which is one of the nation's primary bank regulators. Legislators have also introduced a measure to modernise rules on derivatives, financial instruments whose value is based on the value of something else such as a commodity, stock or currency price.
"It is important for Congress to periodically review" such laws, Greenspan said. "Regulators are required to do that."
For example, in a recent review of Regulation Y, governing non-bank interests of bank holding companies, the Fed found that "some of that stuff is just unbelievable because the markets have changed so much," the Fed chairman said, without elaborating.
If Congress alters the Fed's responsibilities, it should not strip the central bank of its ability to contain systemic risk, Greenspan argued. "Having seen the inner workings of these things, a lot of the things we do actually are quite effective," he said.
"I would be very chagrined to see some of these powers disappear ... I say that from someone who believes the less you interfere in the market, the better."
Under one proposal before Congress, the Federal Reserve would remain a primary regulator of financial institutions such as banks. But under other proposals, that authority could be divided among many regulators or entrusted to a new committee of federal regulators.
The Fed offered to provide loans following the stock market crash of 1987, for example, preventing a liquidity crisis that could have caused wider problems for the economy.
Greenspan also appeared to side with the Treasury Department in its long-running dispute with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission over the appropriate scope of U.S. laws governing futures trading.
Under a 1974 amendment to the Commodity Exchange Act, trading of foreign currency and certain other instruments is exempt from CFTC oversight. But federal courts have made contradictory rulings about the scope of the amendment, especially as it relates to derivatives, and the Supreme Court is expected to deliver a ruling on the issue soon.
Greenspan said Congress did not need to impose new regulations on trading of derivatives over-the-counter by sophisticated institutional investors. "There appears to be no need," he said. Regulation under the commodity act "seems an inappropriate framework," he added.
Even trading by less-sophisticated retail investors "is more appropriately regulated" by bank regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission, not the CFTC, he said.
Greenspan's comments were significant and could affect lawmakers' decisions when they consider related legislation, an Association executive said.
"If you're going to vote on these issues and you've been kind of on the fence with respect to pro-market or expansion of CFTC (Commodity Futures Trading Commission) power, etcetera, I have to believe that his comments influence that person who's on the fence," said John Frawley, chairman of the Managed Futures Association.
"So if you're looking for a Good Housekeeping seal of approval, he just sort of stamped it on those who are looking for such a thing," Frawley told reporters at a briefing.
Shareholders in Anglo-American conglomerate Hanson overwhelmingly approved the group's final plank of its ambitious four-way demerger on Friday, clearing the way for its Energy Group division to be spun off on Monday.
About 98 percent of shareholders voted for the motion, ending an era of wheeler-dealing that created Britain's once mighty conglomerate which, under takeover king Lord Hanson and his late partner Lord White, became a star performer in the 1980s.
But with a stock market that showed its mistrust of conglomerates by sharply marking down their shares, Hanson last January announced that it would tear itself up into separate tobacco, chemicals, energy and building companies.
"I am very pleased with the outcome of the meeting," Energy Group's chairman Derek Bonham told Reuters after the shareholder vote on the final demerger of the Energy Group and a share consolidation.
"And I am personally very excited about the prospects for the Energy Group in the future."
Energy, which will be listed in London and New York, has said it is already mulling a string of acquisitions in Britain and North America, which some analysts say could be worth up to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3 billion).
Bonham also confirmed that the group was still in acquisition talks with a U.S. power marketing company.
The group, which is expected to start with a market value of around 2.8 billion pounds and is being sold with 1.4 billion pounds of debt, will be large enough to rank among Britain's biggest FTSE 100 blue-chip companies and America's Fortune 500.
Bonham dismissed speculation that Energy would embark on a further sub-demerger of its two main components -- U.S.-Australian Peabody Coal and Britain's largest regional electricity company Eastern Group -- referred to by one shareholder as an "unhappy marriage".
"No, I have had enough of demergers and I think (the two) fit very well together," he told the shareholder meeting.
Energy executives want the company, which says its year dividend will be an indicative 22 pence, to be viewed as a growth stock rather than a utility.
Peabody is the world's largest private coal producer -- still a cheaper fuel than gas in the U.S. -- and Eastern Group is the only fully integrated electricity and gas company in England and Wales.
"Energy will be substantially cash generative until it starts making acquisitions," noted David Campbell, electricity analyst at brokers Greig Middleton.
The demerger will give shareholders one Energy share for every 10 existing Hanson shares held. Every eight shares in the remaining Hanson group will be consolidated into one new share at the same time.
Hanson's first two demergers, of Britain's Imperial Tobacco and U.S.-quoted Millennium Chemicals, took place last October.
Unofficial grey market trading has already begun in both Energy and the new Hanson shares ahead of the split.
Energy saw its shares trade at 520 pence, a loss of 6.5 pence on Friday, while new Hanson shares, the rump building group that retains the old household name, were quoted at 287.5 pence, a loss of six pence.
Bonham, who newspapers say takes home a basic pay package of 450,000 pounds annually, also fielded questions from at least four shareholders who said they were "nauseated" and "aghast" at the executive pay and bonus packages that company directors awarded themselves.
He said that long-term incentive plans, geared to total shareholder return, ensured that executives only got paid what they deserved.
($ = 0.619 British Pounds)
Major Australian banks have blown the dust off their Asian strategies and are moving quickly into the region as life gets tough at home.
Three of Australia's biggest banks have publicly renewed their Asian ambitions in the past few months as competition hots up for the local market and earnings begin to suffer. "It's now you are starting to see them push a bit harder into Asia," said Melbourne-based banking analyst Ken McLay, of credit rating agency Standard and Poor's Group.
All of Australia's four big banks are now pursuing opportunities for interest and fee income in the rapidly growing markets of Asia, quietly urged on by the nation's central bank.
Their uniform embrace of Asia comes as two of Australia's biggest life insurers, National Mutual Holdings Ltd and Colonial Mutual, also boost their Asian profiles. Last week, Colonial bought out its Asian joint venture for US$163 million.
But Asia has not always commanded such uniform priority among Australia's financial institutions.
CENTRAL BANK UNHAPPY
Only six months ago, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) expressed disappointment that local banks were not seizing more opportunities to expand into Asia. At that time, the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) was the only exception.
ANZ has long been Australia's most Asia-focused bank, with a retail network throughout India and operations in 40 other countries, most of them within the region.
In contrast, the most profitable bank, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), has focused in recent years on the United States and Europe. Westpac Banking Group virtually withdrew from Asia three and a half years ago to focus on home markets.
For years after the free-wheeling 1980s hit a wall of bad debts in Australia, banks had put expansion plans on hold and Asian strategies gathered dust as they repaired balance sheets.
But since late last year, talk of Asia is again on bankers' lips as interest margins contract in a tight local market where banks and non-bank institutions encroach on each other's turf. ALL EYES ON ASIA
Westpac bounced back into Asia last November, announcing an alliance with British-based Standard Chartered Bank Plc to provide select Asian banking services to Westpac clients.
The venture will focus primarily on Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, before expanding into Vietnam and China, said Westpac.
NAB, which owns regional banks in the United States, Britain and Ireland, is also now looking for a partner in Asia.
"We've looked at a few (alliances) with banks and other institutions...It takes time to pull these things off," NAB managing director Don Argus told reporters last month.
Australia's fourth big bank, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd (CBA), also chimed in last week. It said it too would expand its Asian activities and was looking for joint-venture partners in Indo-China.
"Certainly the competition in the domestic market is extremely tough," S&amp;P's McLay told Reuters, adding he expected Australian banks' local asset quality and earnings to deteriorate.
"One of the ways to offset this is diversifaction...One way they are trying to diversify is to go offshore and I think that's a prudent strategy, but it has its risks," he added.
SMALL FISH, BIG POND
Australian banks, minnows compared with the regional might of banks like Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp Ltd, are likely to use geography and trade links to make their mark in Asia.
"They are small in size but the Australian banks do bring a lot of expertise. They are headquartered in the region, so they benefit from that and Australia is a major trading partner with a lot of these countries," McLay said.
"Australian banks are pretty well placed to piggy-back on the back of that. I think they will do quite well."
Australia's central bank cleary hopes so, declaring that "momentum for involvement in Asia has now clearly re-emerged".
"The banks' focus has tended to be on the provision of trade finance and treasury services to corporates, although their retail activities in Asia are increasing," the RBA said in a written response to a parliamentary committee recently.
Australian banks' largest operations are in Hong Kong, Singapore and Japan, but they are fanning out, it said.
They are now eyeing opportunities in China, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Burma and Cambodia as these nations open up their banking sectors to foreign entrants, the RBA said.
Newspapers in Hong Kong were dominated on Friday by reaction to the death of Deng Xiaoping, with many eulogising his reformist policies that made China, Hong Kong's future sovereign, rich and strong.
"Nobody in the course of this century raised the material standards of living of more people than Deng Xiaoping," the widely-circulated South China Morning Post said.
"That, in itself, would ensure Deng his place among the leading figures of the century," it said in its editorial.
Little effort was spared as newspapers splashed full-colour photographs of mourners in Hong Kong and China's southern border city of Shenzhen in Guangdong province.
While some papers noted Deng's role behind the military crackdown against 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy protests, the issue was not emphasised.
The military suppression had outraged Hong Kong at the time and shook confidence in the territory, which reverts to Chinese sovereignty at midnight on June 30.
"He deserves to be treated as one of China's greatest leaders," the Hongkong Standard said in a front-page editorial.
Deng, who died late on Wednesday at the age of 92 of complications from Parkinson's disease and a lung infection, was widely credited with transforming China from an improverished Stalinist state into an emerging economic powerhouse.
China's economic flowering helped drive Hong Kong, as factories owned by the territory's businessmen mushroomed in neighbouring Guangdong province and Chinese products poured through Hong Kong's port.
Deng also engineered the "one country, two systems" formula paving the way for the return of the British colony to China.
"Learn from Xiaoping's merits, actualise the one country, two systems," the independent Chinese-language Ming Pao said. "This is the best way to fulfil his dream...to ensure his vision lasts forever."
Some papers ran polls, awarding high marks for Deng's achievements. A Ming Pao survey of over 1,900 respondents found Deng scoring 6.4 out of nine for his achievements, while 60 percent thought his death would not affect Hong Kong.
Tin Tin Daily News said a poll of 90 people it conducted showed 85 percent were confident that the one-country, two-systems formula would be implemented.
Normally trim Beijing-backed newspapers Wen Wei Pao and Ta Kung Pao boasted separate takeouts filled with condolence advertisements from companies and individuals.
Perhaps the only discordant note in Hong Kong's eloquent song of praise was an off-colour quarter-page photograph on the front page of the Chinese-language Apple Daily, which it claimed to be Deng's last picture taken while alive in hospital in December.
Photographed secretly through a crack in the door, it showed a wan Deng, with eyes red-rimmed and puffy, staring blankly into space.
Japan's top banks are touting a plan to lift a 50-year-old ban on holding companies as the cure for what ails their industry, but analysts say it will take more than that to solve their problems.
"We doubt that a simple change in ownership structure will result in aggressive restructuring of financial institutions," said Kathy Matsui, a strategist at Goldman Sachs (Japan).
She said restructuring was dependent on the will of managements, and it was doubtful if holding companies alone would spur the necessary changes in the troubled industry.
The banks, groaning under massive bad loan problems, fear that Japan's "Big Bang" reforms will lead to a bloodletting that could end in the collapse of financial institutions which are in poor financial health.
Many bank officials see the holding company route as the key to coping with the reforms, which are designed to liberalise the nation's financial markets by 2001.
Under a holding company, barriers between banks, brokers and insurers could be broken down and major banks could streamline their financial groups and bail out weaker affiliates.
The umbrella companies would also allow huge, inefficient corporate giants to split into several leaner operations.
But most analysts are unconvinced about the banking industry's willingness to tackle large-scale streamlining.
"The market has been becoming more critical of Japanese banks in the past one or two months as they have delayed their disclosure of problem loans," said Yushiro Ikuyo, a first vice-president at Smith Barney International.
Banks still appear to be hoping for a soft landing scenario and they lack a sense of crisis control, Ikuyo said.
Bankers, meanwhile, say they need a freer hand to establish financial holding companies.
"Concern is growing about Japanese banks' declining international competitiveness, so I would like (the government) to make sure that nothing will be done to reduce the effectiveness of holding companies," Shunsaku Hashimoto, the chairman of the Federation of Bankers' Associations of Japan, told reporters this week.
If all goes as planned, Japan will overturn the ban next year. It was imposed by U.S. Occupation forces five decades ago to break up powerful conglomerates known as "zaibatsu".
Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party and its policy partners are in last-ditch talks on to issue, and if they agree the government will submit a bill to parliament in March.
The Finance Ministry has also begun to work out necessary revisions in financial laws to enable the establishment of financial holding firms.
The corporate structure of a holding company will also make it easier and less costly to combine poorer-performing banks than a corporate merger, banking officials said.
In a merger, Japanese banks find it difficult to smooth relations between two distinct corporate cultures, and layoffs are also hard to justify when two banks merge, they said.
A holding company system would also allow big city banks to team up with regional banks. Regional markets offer the promise of new business for the big banks, they added.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Center, said many banks saw holding companies as a tool to give them greater management flexibility. "I expect big commercial banks will benefit most from holding companies," he said.
Analysts and bankers say, however, that there are a number of obstacles involving tax, commercial and securities rules which must be addressed before holding companies can be practically implemented.
Unless Japan introduces a new corporate tax system in which tax is calculated based on the combined profits or losses of group companies, there will not be many cost benefits in setting up a holding company, they said.
As Hong Kong speeds towards its return to Chinese rule, questions are being asked about the fate of its largest expatriate community -- tens of thousands of Filipina maids, or amahs.
Hong Kong relies upon its army of Filipina "domestic helpers". There were 140,000 of them at last count among the territory's 6.2 million population, and many people are heavily dependent upon their gentle and kind child-care.
"The help is so cheap you may as well have a few sprogs (children) while you're here," said one British banker with three young children, two Filipina maids and a very pregnant wife.
The Filipinas' contribution to their home nation is even more important. Most of the women are supporting families, and their monthly remittances account for a sizeable proportion of that nation's gross domestic product each year.
The arrangement works well, but it could be under threat. Concern is growing that once Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule, the Filipinas will be booted out in favour of mainland Chinese women keen to earn hard currency in wealthy Hong Kong.
Recent statements of support for the status quo by Chinese president Jiang Zemin and Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive-designate, have failed to reassure those concerned for the well-being of these women, who face unemployment and an uncertain future in their home country.
"They have said the status quo will be maintained, but realistically there are going to be changes going into the handover," said Dennis Suico, chairman of the Philippine Association of Hong Kong.
"There will be a steady inflow of workers from the mainland. It may not be drastic, it may not happen overnight, but there is going to be change."
SUNDAY GATHERINGS
The dark-haired women -- many of them college graduates, teachers and nurses -- are known in Hong Kong as the sparrows of Statue Square for their lively Sunday gatherings in the downtown plaza of that name.
Huddled underneath the imposing Hongkong Bank building, spilling out from overpasses humming with traffic, perched on plastic sheets on the ground at the Star Ferry terminal, thousands of chattering Filipinas crowd into the Central district each Sunday, forcing police to cordon off roads and redirect traffic.
"We have to do this, we have to," said Maria, 30. "We work six days; on Sunday we have to enjoy ourselves."
Wedged tightly between friends on a ledge outside Central subway station, Maria said she came to Hong Kong in order to support her 10-year-old daughter and unemployed husband, who can no longer work after an accident.
"I send back 7,000 pesos (US$270) each month," she said.
The money, a small fortune in impoverished Philippines, comes at a price. Most Filipinas' lives are marked by loneliness and separation from the people they care most about, and their working conditions are often hard.
"My employers are so selfish," said another Filipina. "I have one day off every month, I have to get up at six o'clock and I cannot end until 11 o'clock. Please can you help me? Please help me leave here, to go to Canada or America."
MINIMUM STANDARDS
The Hong Kong government sets minimum standards for domestic helpers in a standard two-year contract, which requires free room and board, minimum pay of about US$500 per month and one week's holiday a year.
But the Filipinas said that many employers, particularly the Chinese, are extremely demanding within those guidelines. The government recently announced random checks on employers to prevent the worst abuses, such as bedrolls in corridors.
Competition is keen for jobs with Western families, who tend to pay above the minimum rate, give two days off each week rather than one and offer a food allowance so that the Filipinas can avoid a foreign diet.
But when asked what they find most difficult about Hong Kong life, most Filipinas cite the separation from family. Many see their husbands and children for just one week a year.
Their situation is unlikely to improve much. Suico said that after the handover on July 1, many Chinese families and businessmen are likely to prefer a Chinese-speaking maid for better communication.
A number of business groups also support easier labour movement between Hong Kong and the rest of China, but government officials are on the record as having expressed concern about how best to handle the immigration implications of the handover.
Suico said the Filipinas are probably in a good position with younger families where both parents work and want their children to grow up speaking both Cantonese and English.
"And if you add to that the considerable numbers of the expatriate community here in Hong Kong, the senior executives, I think there is an overwhelming preference for an English-speaking domestic helper at home," he said.
But the number of expatriates on luxury packages is dwindling and the demand for domestic helpers is on the decline.
Filipinas are starting to ask where they should go next.
WHERE TO GO NEXT?
There is a huge migrant workforce of four million Filipinos the world over, most of them in the Middle East, but the case of Sarah Balabagan has confirmed that region as a potentially dangerous place for female workers.
Balabagan, 15, was convicted of murder in the United Arab Emirates after she stabbed to death an 84-year-old employer trying to rape her. "The Middle East is not a good option for Filipinas," said Suico.
Instead, they are being encouraged to look for work in the affluent and emerging societies of Asia, such as Japan, Singapore, South Korea and Malaysia.
Blink and you missed it.
The much anticipated correction in Hong Kong stocks on Thursday on news of the death of China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping gave fund managers all of 10 minutes to do some much-anticipated bargain hunting.
"This was not my expectation," said Ambrose Chang, chief investment officer at Daiwa Capital Management in Hong Kong.
Traders and fund managers said a huge bout of short-covering was responsible for the quick recovery on Thursday.
"It was futures driven," said one fund manager. "The hedge funds came in and covered their positions and there were a lot of angry fund managers in London being woken up in the middle of the night by their brokers."
After dipping 92 points at the opening, the Hang Seng index surged 305.01 points or 2.33 percent to close at 13,411.33 while the February index future ended 405 points higher at 13,485.
"The futures tried to open lower but there was no follow-through selling. All of a sudden they (the hedge funds) knew they were in trouble," one head trader said.
Clearly, it was the foreign funds, not the local punters, who got caught out.
"This news was in the market the whole week with certain people," said the head trader at one local house. "I knew there was a massive short position in the market and after the first minute of trading, I wasn't at all surprised by what happened."
Now that the dust has settled, fund managers are offering routine explanations for their near-term forecasts for the Hang Seng, all of them variations on the theme of a range-trade between 13,000 and 13,800.
U.S. interest rates and upcoming corporate earnings are expected to dictate direction, but most market players are expecting consolidation at current levels.
There were few reports of so-called "top-slicing," or rotation of funds into other markets, although traders did report profit-taking in Singapore and Indonesia, both of which fell over the course of the week after recent strength.
Some funds said they had began cutting heavily overweight positions in Hong Kong when the Hang Seng hit 14,000 on January 16 and any further rotation is not justified given this week's strength.
Last week's action also proved the independence of Asian stocks, which were either unchanged or weaker on domestic factors when the Deng news hit.
"They're all completely sucked into their own things," one trader said.
Although individual factors helped push many indices lower through the region last week, traders and funds confirmed reports that institutional money was moving out of Asia and into Latin America.
"They can't find anything in Asia to buy," said one head trader. "In Singapore and Malaysia, the earnings growth isn't massive and elsewhere it's not great. (Investors) expect better value in Latin America."
One foreign fund manager said the flows were understandable given that Latin America is trading at about 12 percent earnings growth on a multiple of 11.5 times - 20 percent below the average Asian earnings multiple.
"And Southeast Asia is still going through this adjustment," he said.
"Global asset allocators still look at Asia as a region suffering from cost overruns, squeezed margins and, in some industries, a lack of pricing power."
An uneventful week of sideways trade is expected on most Asian markets following news that China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping had died on Wednesday.
Although many of the smaller Asian markets virtually ignored the news, Hong Kong and Taiwan surprised some investors by trading higher.
A strong week in Tokyo is not expected to last and regional traders said quality buying had yet to surface in Bangkok, this week's surprise performer.
The Stock Exchange of Thailand index has gained seven percent in the past eight trading days, recovering from the previous week's sharp slide on news of a debt rating review by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
Most of the other small Asian markets expect a week of sideways trade, although some could suffer from trader reports of fund flows out of Asia into Latin America.
"They can't find anything in Asia to buy," said one head trader. "In Singapore and Malaysia, the earnings growth isn't massive and elsewhere it's not great. (Investors) expect better value in Latin America."
- - - -
HONG KONG - Stocks are expected to refocus on fundamentals in the week ahead and could trade sideways for much of the time although hopes of healthy corporate earnings may provide a positive bias, analysts said.
The market had a rocky ride last week, quaking on concerns about the health of China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping before rallying after his death cleared the uncertainty.
The Hang Seng Index rose 331.59 points, or 2.53 percent, over the week to close at 13,444.85 on Friday. The rise included a 305.01-point surge on Thursday following Deng's death.
"On the fundamental side there is not much change," said Kelvin Tang, an analyst at ImPac Asset Management.
- - - -
TOKYO - The Japanese stock market's key index is likely to struggle to find a firm foothold at the 19,000 level in the coming week, after it ended above that threshold on Friday for the first time this year.
"The benchmark has reached a stage where it is getting close to retracing one-third of its worth from the January 10 low of 17,303 and the high of 22,666 marked on June 26," said Okasan Securities general manager Akihiro Naemura.
On Friday, the Nikkei average of 225 leading shares ended down 17.17 points or 0.09 percent at 19,034.54. In the course of the week, the barometer rose 312.54 points or 1.67 percent.
- - - -
BANGKOK - The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) Index is expected to post further gains in the week ahead as foreign and local investors follow through on a strong two-day rally, analysts said.
But buying is likely to be short-term and selective ahead of a central bank release of balance of payments data due on Thursday.
The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) index gained 4.8 percent from last Friday to 747.70 points on Thursday as speculative pressure on the currency eased.
Markets were closed on Friday for a Buddhist holiday.
- - - -
TAIPEI - Taiwan share prices are seen rising further in the week ahead on widespread expectations of continued economic recovery and on easing fears of political instability after the death of Chinese paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, brokers said.
The government statistics agency announced on Thursday that Taiwan's gross domestic product growth was 6.62 percent in the fourth quarter of 1996, higher than a forecast of 6.58 percent.
"Investors are confident that the index will continue to reflect the economy's sound fundamentals," said David Yu, vice-president for International Investment Trust Co.
The index slid 51.25 points or 0.66 percent to 7,739.94 against last week's close of 7,598.93.
- - - -
KUALA LUMPUR - Malaysian blue chips could trend higher in the week ahead on an influx of local and foreign buyers targeting lower-valued main board stocks, dealers said.
"I think it will be a good week," said Ralph Dixon, of TA Securities' international division.
Corporate earnings and economic data including December trade figures will take centre stage, dealers said.
Kuala Lumpur's benchmark Composite Index of 100 big-cap stocks closed 15.95 points or 1.28 percent higher at 1,262.86 on Friday.
- - - -
SEOUL - Consolidation combined with worries about rising interest rates will pressure the Korean market in the week ahead, brokers said.
"Many investors are worried about gradually rising interest rates and they believe there will be further rises," said Hwang Chang-joong of LG Securities.
Much worse-than-expected corporate results, due to be announced in the coming week, will also hurt the market.
The composite stock index fell 41.08 points or 5.7 percent to 681.24 on Saturday against last Saturday's 722.32.
- - - -
MANILA - Manila shares are expected to trade sideways with an upward bias next week on slow buying in selected blue chips and continued attention to small cap issues, traders said.
Friday's news of Standard &amp; Poor's upgrading of the Philippines' foreign debt rating from BB to BB-plus could perk up the market, said Helen Alvarez, research head of All Asia Securities.
But Raul Ruiz, vice-president at Sun Hung Kai Securities, said a political row over the ruling party's efforts to change the constitution to enable President Fidel Ramos to run for a second term could make foreign investors cautious.
The main index closed down 8.45 points at 3,301.98 on Friday, shedding 20.32 points to 3,322.30 week-on-week.
- - - -
JAKARTA - Indonesian shares are expected to be mixed with the index moving around the 695-700 points level in the coming week, brokers said.
Brokers said several secondaries and some medium-sized counters were likely to be active on news and speculation of corporate action such as stock splits, bonus share issues and 1996 earnings.
On Friday, the Jakarta composite index closed 2.17 points lower at 696.50 points, against last Friday's close of 704.48 points.
- - - -
SINGAPORE - The Straits Times Industrial (STI) Index will trade in a range of 2,150 and 2,300 points in the coming week, with a trend towards the higher end of the range, traders said.
Expectations of flat to weaker 1996 results announcements, notably by property and marine companies, would continue to weigh on some blue chips, they added.
Continued retail and punting interest would underpin small and recently listed stocks, dealers said.
The STI index ended 10.70 points or 0.47 percent lower at 2,241.28 on Friday against 2,252.46 on February 14.
- - - -
SYDNEY - Australian shares were seen mixed in the near term with the focus remaining on individual corporate results as the reporting season continues apace.
The All Ordinaries index closed at 2,475.3, barely changed from Thursday and down 0.3 percent over the week.
While major moves on Wall Street would still dictate the early tone, individual company performance was seen as the key.
"The market will look at the fundamentals and see which stocks have had the earnings to justify price movements and those that haven't may succumb to a bit of profit-taking," said Derek Bond, director at brokerage Burrell and Co.
- - - -
WELLINGTON - Corporate earnings are again set to take centre stage on the New Zealand share market in the week ahead, while brokers keep a close watch on Telecom's sliding share price.
It shed 25 cents to NZ$6.60 on Friday on fears of a weaker earnings outlook.
Next up on the reporting schedule are the Fletcher Challenge divisions, which should prove a mixed bag when they report on Wednesday.
The NZSE-40 Capital Index ended the week at 2,301.53, down 24.32 points. The index has lost 21.65 points (0.94 percent) from 2,323.18 a week ago.
- - - -
BOMBAY - Shares at Indian bourses are expected to trade in volatile territory ahead of the 1997 budget to be presented on February 28, dealers said.
"It's a crucial week. Market focus will be on budget expectations," a local dealer said.
The 30-share index of the Bombay Stock Exchange fell 54.91 points, or 1.57 percent, to end at 3,439.49 in the week ending Friday.
The Supreme Court said Monday it would decide whether a federal regulator had properly allowed credit unions to expand their membership over the past 15 years, settling a long-running legal dispute between the cooperative non-profits and banks.
Credit unions praised the court's action to reconsider an Appellate court decision last July in favour of the banks. But bank representatives said the court was only delaying the inevitable.
The 1934 Federal Credit Union Act creating credit unions "was not meant to delineate and protect bank markets at the expense of the consumer," said Marc Schaefer, president of AT&amp;T Family Federal Credit Union, the credit union being sued by banks in the case.
"Consumers everywhere will be the winners when banks compete in the marketplace instead of the courts and on Capitol Hill," Schaeffer added.
American Bankers Association executive vice president Donald Ogilvie countered that "the facts and law weigh overwhelmingly in our favour."
"We are disappointed at the prospect of delay in the enfocement of a law we believe is quite clear," he said.
The Supreme Court will hear arguments in the case in its upcoming term, which begins in October. A decision is likely early next year.
The case affects about 3,600 federal credit unions serving 32 million customers, Justice Department lawyer Walter Dellinger said.
The appeals court ruling in favour of the banks "threatens nationwide instability and losses in the credit union industry affecting millions of persons," Dellinger said.
Until 1982, credit unions were limited to having members with a single common bond, such as people who worked for the same employer or lived in the same neighbourhood. Owned by their members, non-profit credit unions paid no federal taxes and were able to offer bank-like services often at lower prices than banks.
But in 1982, concerned about a lack of diversification, the National Credit Union Administration decided to allow credit unions to accept members from multiple distinct groups.
As many previously tiny credit unions diversified and grew substantially larger, banks complained of unfair competition. In 1990, they sued AT&amp;T Family Federal, a North Carolina union that had grown to encompass over 150 different groups.
After the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia struck down the 1982 policy change last July, a lower court imposed strict membership limits on multi-group credit unions.
Those limits have since been put on hold until the Supreme Court makes a decision. But if the banks win, their next move could be to ask the courts to force multi-group credit unions to throw out members from all but one group.
Credit unions said they will ask Congress to amend the law if they lose in the Supreme Court.
"Congress never intended the 1934 Federal Credit Union Act to limit credit union growth or to protect banks from competition," said Daniel Mica, president of Credit Union National Association, a leading trade group. "If the court does not see it this way, we think Congress will recognise consumers' need for credit unions."
((202-898-8312))
Australia's biggest aluminium producer, Comalco Ltd, plunged into the red on Monday, blaming weak prices, a strong local dollar and higher smelting costs.
Comalco announced a loss of A$16.8 million (US$12.9 million) in calendar 1996, compared with a net profit after abnormals of A$232.3 million in 1995.
Before abnormals, 1996 earnings were in line with market expectations at A$32.9 million, a fraction of the 1995 result.
The result made only a brief dent in Comalco's share price, which was battered in recent months in anticipation of a slide in earnings. The shares fell eight cents on the news, but rebounded to end at A$6.88, up six cents from Friday's close.
Comalco is owned 67 percent by global mining group RTZ-CRA, due to report its annual profit on Thursday.
"The market has pretty much factored in the loss and is now focusing on future earnings prospects," one share trader said.
As expected, Comalco's smelting division played a part in the earnings nose-dive. It made a loss for the year, but this paled in comparison with the damage done to Comalco's earnings by the slump in aluminium prices and a strong local currency.
"The 1996 result was severely impacted by lower prices," chief executive Terry Palmer told reporters in Melbourne.
The London Metal Exchange (LME) aluminium price averaged 70 U.S. cents a pound in 1996, compared with an average of 83 cents in 1995, the company said. The Australian dollar averaged 78 U.S. cents in 1996, four cents stronger than in 1995, it added.
Comalco's premiums over the LME price also suffered. Together, the aluminium market and the local dollar pared a total of about A$201 from operating profit, overwhelming a rise in total production volumes, the company said.
But Palmer painted a much brighter outlook, assuring investors that Comalco's aluminium production is set to climb and predicting a stronger aluminium price over 1997.
Comalco saw firming global demand for the metal this year, fuelled by economic recovery in Europe and continued growth in the United States. "Consumption in Asia is not expected to grow in 1997," the company said.
Comalco also denied market speculation it might sell off its smelters and abandon its plan to build a A$1 billion alumina refinery in either Queensland state or Sarawak, Malaysia. Alumina, produced from bauxite, is the raw material for making aluminium.
"The current talk about that (withdrawing from smelting) is one hell of a way wide of the mark," Palmer said.
"The position with the alumina project remains unchanged," he added.
Comalco hopes to start building the refinery, with annual capacity of one million to 1.5 million tonnes, in 1998. Site selection will depend heavily on the kind of power contracts Queensland and Malaysia can offer, Palmer said.
(A$1 = US$0.77)
Australia's biggest aluminium producer, Comalco Ltd, plunged heavily into the red on Monday, blaming its loss for calendar 1996 on weak aluminium prices, an adverse exchange rate and higher smelting costs.
Comalco's net profit before abnormals slid to A$32.9 million in 1996 from A$264.8 million in 1995, in line with expectations, but abnormals dragged the bottom line to a A$16.8 million loss.
The result made a small dent in the stock's share price, which dropped eight cents on the news but recovered by 0125 GMT (12.25 p.m.) to A$6.80, down only two cents from Friday's close.  
Comalco is owned 67 percent by global mining group RTZ-CRA.
"The market has pretty much factored in the loss and is now focusing on future earnings prospects," a Brisbane dealer said.
As expected, Comalco's smelting division played a part in the earnings nose-dive.
Higher operating costs at its three smelters shaved A$32 million from group operating profit, Comalco said. It blamed this on higher prices for raw materials like fuel, power and coke, and on costs associated with smelter upgrades and expansions.
Australia's biggest aluminium producer, Comalco Ltd, plunged into the red on Monday, blaming weak prices, a strong local dollar and higher smelting costs.
Comalco announced a loss of A$16.8 million (US$12.9 million) in calendar 1996, compared with a net profit after abnormals of A$232.3 million in 1995.
Before abnormals, 1996 earnings were in line with market expectations at A$32.9 million, a fraction of the 1995 result.
The result made only a brief dent in Comalco's share price, which was battered in recent months in anticipation of a slide in earnings. The shares fell eight cents on the news, but rebounded to end at A$6.88, up six cents from Friday's close.
Comalco is owned 67 percent by global mining group RTZ-CRA , due to report its annual profit on Thursday.
"The market has pretty much factored in the loss and is now focusing on future earnings prospects," one share trader said.
As expected, Comalco's smelting division played a part in the earnings nose-dive. It made a loss for the year, but this paled in comparison with the damage done to Comalco's earnings by the slump in aluminium prices and a strong local currency.
"The 1996 result was severely impacted by lower prices," chief executive Terry Palmer told reporters in Melbourne.
The London Metal Exchange (LME) aluminium price averaged 70 U.S. cents a pound in 1996, compared with an average of 83 cents in 1995, the company said. The Australian dollar averaged 78 U.S. cents in 1996, four cents stronger than in 1995, it added.
Comalco's premiums over the LME price also suffered. Together, the aluminium market and the local dollar pared a total of about A$201 from operating profit, overwhelming a rise in total production volumes, the company said.
But Palmer painted a much brighter outlook, assuring investors that Comalco's aluminium production is set to climb and predicting a stronger aluminium price over 1997.
Comalco saw firming global demand for the metal this year, fuelled by economic recovery in Europe and continued growth in the United States. "Consumption in Asia is not expected to grow in 1997," the company said.
Comalco also denied market speculation it might sell off its smelters and abandon its plan to build a A$1 billion alumina refinery in either Queensland state or Sarawak, Malaysia. Alumina, produced from bauxite, is the raw material for making aluminium.
(A$1 = US$0.77)
Insurance group Guardian Royal Exchange PLC on Tuesday reported a sharp fall in 1996 profits and said it was considering a major acquisition within the next twelve months, possibly in the life sector.
The company blamed tough competition and the worst catastrophe weather claims in the U.S. for 75 years for the profits decline, while bad weather and continuing subsidence losses in Britain also taking a toll.
But news that Guardian may spend around one billion pounds ($1.6 billion) on a life acquisition and disappointment that it had no plans to return capital to shareholders prompted the shares to reverse an initial rise on the back of the results.
The company told industry analysts that a UK life acquisition was top of the list, that it could comfortably spend one billion pounds and would be prepared to spend more if necessary.
Guardian is not a major player in the UK life market and on the plus side an acquisition could give it critical mass and economies of scale.
But the possible goodwill write off such an  acquisition could prompt was a concern, analysts said.
"Guardian looks very expensive on both an earnings and a dividend basis. The asset value is the only rationale as to why the shares are sitting at current levels," said one.
"Any large life acquisition would almost certainly result in paying a very substantial premium to asset value."
The decline in 1996 profits was broadly in-line with market expectations. Despite continuing pressures on margins, Guardian chief executive John Robins said there were bright spots.
The company had seen some hardening of premiums in selected sectors and regions such as British motor insurance and difficult conditions in Germany had not been as severe as some commentators had forecast.
It predicted rates in the motor market could rise by as much as eight percent over the next twelve months with household rates likely to see smaller increases of the order of two percent.
Competition in commercial markets continued to be fierce, though even here there were hopes of an upturn in rates by the end of the year.
For 1996, however, Guardian trading profits were down over 17 percent at 281 million pounds, before restructuring costs of 39 million pounds.
Pre-tax profits including investment gains dropped to 651 million pounds from 812 million pounds last year. Total premium income was down only slightly at 3.73 billion pounds.
While competition had risen and was likely to increase further, Guardian said it was confident about the future and that this was reflected in the increase in the dividend payout for the year by one pence to 10.0 pence per share.
The figures were broadly in line with market expectations although the headline operating profit was flattered by reserve releases to the tune of 10 to 15 million pounds and by a profit contribution from the internal reinsurance operation which may not be repeated.
Progress had been made on the integration of last year's acquisition of Legal &amp; General's commercial business and of the RAC insurance business.
Restructuring of the group's operations in Britain was also moving ahead, the company said.
A new management structure was set up at the beginning of 1997 and cost savings in the next two years are expected to equal this year's 39 million pounds of exceptional charges.
Those charges are expected to cover all the costs required to complete the restructuring over the next 12 to 18 months and while these might include further redundancies, these were unlikely to be of the same order of previous rounds of layoffs. ($ = 0.612 British Pounds)
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, one of the nation's primary regulators of derivatives, has no authority over most foreign currency transactions, the Supreme Court said Tuesday.
In a unanimous decision, the court ruled that a 1974 law exempting some transactions in foreign currency from CFTC oversight also exempted some foreign exchange derivatives, financial instruments whose value is based on the value of currencies like the dollar or Japanese yen.
The CFTC regulates trading of derivatives such as futures and options on everything from wheat and corn to interest rates and electricity. By law, such trading must occur on a recogized exchange, such as the Chicago Board of Trade or the New York Mercantile Exchange.
But when Congress created the commission in 1974, it added an amendment permitting off-exchange trading in foreign currency and a few other items without CFTC regulation. The amendment was requested by the Treasury Department, which believed that the developing market in foreign currency among large banks and securities firms would be overregulated by CFTC oversight.
The CFTC stayed away from the inter-bank foreign exchange market, which has grown to $40 billion a day in total trading. The commission did, however, prosecute small-scale fraudulent foreign exchange investment peddlers, often called "bucket shops."
But when the CFTC pursued William Dunn, whose $180 million foreign currency fund lost $95 million in 1993, Dunn argued that the 1974 Treasury amendment should also apply to his trading of foreign exchange options.
On Tuesday, the Supreme Court agreed with the bulk of Dunn's argument.
"We think it plain that foreign currency options are 'transactions in foreign currency' within the plain meaning of the statute," Justice John Paul Stevens wrote. "We are not persuaded by any of the arguments advanced by the CFTC in support of a narrower reading."
That pleased banks and Wall Street trade groups, which had sided with Dunn. They argued that subjecting their off-exchange foreign exchange trading to CFTC oversight would be too costly, forcing them to shut down U.S. operations and move overseas.
"We're obviously delighted at the result," said Ken Raisler, an attorney for several of the trade groups.
"It supports our view that the amendment should be read broadly," Raisler, a former general counsel of the CFTC added.
Dunn's lawyer and the banks suggested that any wrongdoing in the foreign exchange area could be dealt with under existing law by other federal agencies, but the Supreme Court did not address the issue. Most off-exchange derivatives trading is not directly regulated, although most participants in such markets are overseen by bank, securities and insurance regulators.
The CFTC still has jurisdiction over foreign currency derivatives traded on an exchange, which include futures contracts. But that market is dwarfed by the over-the-counter market among banks and similiar institutions.
In a lower court case last year, the CFTC argued unsuccessfully that a fraudulent "bucket shop" constituted an exchange.
On Tuesday, the commission maintained that the Supreme Court had decided only the narrow issue of whether the Treasury amendment covered options trading.
"While we are disappointed in the outcome of the case, we note that the Supreme Court's opinion was limited to the narrow issue of whether the Treasury amendment treats futures and options the same," CFTC general counsel Dan Waldman said. "The court's decision does not affect the commission's ongoing efforts to police fraud against the public in foreign currency trading."
Congress is already discussing amending the 1974 Treasury amendment. The Supreme Court's decision "underlines the need for Congress to make decisions about what financial products should or should not be subject to the CFTC's jurisdiction," said Andy Fisher, spokesman for the Senate Agriculture Committee.
Sens. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., Pat Leahy, D-Vt., and Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, introduced a Senate bill to overhaul futures regulation. "It makes the case to proceed with that bill as quickly as we can," Fisher said.
The court invited congressional action. Recognising an "important public policy dispute" underlying the case, the court suggested "these arguments are addressed to the Congress, not the courts."
Sema Group, the fast-growing Anglo-French information technology group, said on Friday it was banking on growth from its telecoms and business systems operations in 1997.
But director of communications Marie-Claude Bessis told Reuters that although the group was seeking to expand into Germany and the U.S., Sema plans to focus on maintaining robust organic growth this financial year.
"1997 will be a year of integration...It will not be a year of acquisitions like 1996 and even 1995," Bessis told Reuters by telephone from Paris.
"From 1997 we will see the opportunities...But the objective will be to integrate the acquisitions, to maintain a strong organic growth and to accelerate the telecom and business system market," she said.
Spending on technology is surging in the fast-growing telecoms market and Sema has signed agreements with Global One -- the alliance of Sprint, Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom, which is an indirect shareholder in Sema -- and AT&amp;T.
The group is developing value-added services and two-way messaging for AT&amp;T's wireless arm and is integrating the computer systems of Global One.
Sema's first rights issue to raise 99 million stg for acquisitions and growth last year has left the group with 18 million stg of cash and no gearing.
And acquisitions such as the purchase of France Telecom's stake in IT systems integration business Telis last year have given Sema substantial new resources and know-how in the fixed telephone market.
A recent acquisition spree has brought not only Telis, but British Rail's business services arm and a majority stake in Olivetti's Sytax processing unit into Sema's fold. The first two are expected to add 170 million stg to group turnover in 1997.
Sema, which is quoted on the London and Paris stock exchanges, earlier reported a 35 percent rise in annual year pre-tax profits to 50 million stg on sales of 927 million stg -- a rise of 37 percent.
Organic growth rose a sharp 20 percent and its order book jumped 66 percent to 1.25 billion pounds. But Bessis said she expected average annual growth of around 13 percent from all businesses, including the slower technology arm which includes control and command systems for the Royal Navy.
Sema's telecoms systems business saw 44 percent growth and its business systems, which includes the high-margin outsourcing and systems integrations operations, saw 46 percent growth over the year, Bessis said.
The company, whose shares have surged from 532p to 1275 pence over the year, was one of the best performers on the stock exchange last year.
And Sema says it is unconcerned at its soaring price earnings ratio of around 40 times which could make the shares look expensive.
It's a good sector and it's a company which is growing spectacularly," Bessis said. "We've had five years of tremendous results -- not just one year."
But the shares slipped 23.5p to 1226.5p by 1115 GMT.
Double-digit compound growth is expected to be fuelled by the vast workload as companies prepare computer systems for European Monetary Union and what has been dubbed the "millenium problem" -- adjusting computers to handle dates from 2000.
The bill for these preparations has been tipped by consultants and analysts to be anything from 32-360 billion pounds.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7987
Insurance group Guardian Royal Exchange Plc on Tuesday blamed competition and bad weather in the United States and Britain for a sharp fall in trading profits for 1996.
But despite continuing pressures on margins, Guardian chief executive John Robins said there were bright spots.
The company had seen some hardening of premiums in selected sectors and regions such as British motor insurance, and difficult conditions in Germany had not been as severe as had some commentators had forecast.
Trading profits for the year, however, were down over 17 percent at 281 million pounds ($458 million), before restructuring costs of 39 million pounds.
Pre-tax profits including investment gains dropped to 651 million pounds from 812 million pounds last year. Worldwide general insurance premium income was broadly unchanged at 2.91 billion pounds.
The figures were broadly in line with market expectations and Guardian shares were trading eight pence higher at 296 pence by mid-morning.
The dividend payout for the year was raised by 11 percent to 10.0 pence per share.
Robins said the results were achieved amid continuing competitive pressure, abnormally bad weather in North America and adverse weather and continuing subsidence costs in Britain.
But finance director James Morley told Reuters that the group expected premiums in the motor and household insurance markets to strengthen in the coming year although commercial rates were expected to continue to be weak.
"In UK household during 1996 we saw a rating environment where prices were going down. The particularly cold spell at the beginning of the year will have reminded people not to underprice household and we would expect the second half of the year to be flattish or slightly positive," said Morley.
Guardian said it wanted its business to grow organically and by acquisition. But it was not prepared to overpay and was determined to write for profit, not volume.
The results included a second half provision for the integration of the Legal &amp; General business and fundamental restructuring of the British insurance business. Robins said he believed they had achieved a great deal in effectively positioning the group for the future.
A new management structure was set up at the beginning of 1997 and cost savings in the next two years would equal this year's 39 million pounds of exceptional charges.
Those charges are expected to cover all the costs required to complete the restructuring over the next 12 to 18 months.
There will be some facility closures and further staff losses to come, said Morley, but he declined to put an overall figure on the number of likely layoffs.
The company said it continued to withdraw from non-core, non-performing markets and had three objectives -- greater attention to customer needs, greater focus on the cost base and increasing return on shareholders funds.
It continued to target increases in premiums only in sectors and regions where it was confident of profitable growth and acceptable underwriting margins.
"Where we have a strategic benefit from being in a market segment, then we will use our market presence to ensure we get the rate we require over the medium term. In the shorter term we will walk away from certain business if we can't get the right rates," said Morley.
($ = 0.613 British Pounds)
The world's biggest mining house, RTZ Corp Plc-CRA Ltd, is set to report a sharp fall in annual profit this week after shouldering a slide in metal prices during the year and battling problems with its U.S. copper smelter, mining analysts said.
The group, which has operations spanning the globe, is on average expected to post a 26 percent fall in net profit before exceptional items to US$1.067 billion for calendar 1996, a Reuter survey of six Australian brokerages revealed.
The Anglo-Australian miner made US$1.441 billion in 1995.  
The analysts' forecasts range between US$1.04 billion and US$1.097 billion, although private forecasting service Barceps quoted much lower numbers in a survey last month.
The culprits behind RTZ-CRA's profit slump are seen as the copper price, which dipped below 90 U.S. cents a pound after the Sumitomo Corp trading scandal erupted in June, a sick aluminium price, down 16 percent in 1996, and problems with the flagship Bingham Canyon copper smelter in Utah.
Together, copper and aluminium earned almost 41 percent of RTZ-CRA's total revenue in 1995, and metal prices were promising enough early in 1996 for the group to talk of higher earnings.  
But metal prices caught cold and the prospects of improved profits also began to look sick mid-year, when the Sumitomo trading scandal involving trader Yasuo Hamanaka sent international copper prices crashing.
"Everything peaked ahead of this Hamanaka copper thing," said Peter O'Connor of Macquarie Bank.
"Most commodities slid from June on through to about September, October and there's been a bit of recovery in most metal prices since that time."  
RTZ-CRA's iron ore business was also a disappointment, one analyst said, noting that sales for the year dropped six percent despite a lift in annual output.
Adding salt to the wound, the gold price also languished. Gold is a sensitive area for the mining giant, since it is fundamentally opposed to selling its production forward at a fixed price to lock in revenue.
RTZ-CRA's coal mines are also not expected to have relieved some of the pain inflicted on the group by weak prices.
One analyst expects coal earnings to fall 10 percent in 1996.  
RTZ-CRA's troubled Bingham Canyon smelter has stirred the deepest concerns among analysts, who have been waiting for the new plant to get it right after 18 months of hobbled operation.
"That's going to knock it (the result) around a bit," a Sydney-based analyst said.
The smelter is still not operating at full capacity and now faces a six-week shut-down soon for major modifications.
Copper division earnings are forecast to plunge by some 40 percent, according to HSBC James Capel's forecast.
Still, the brokerage likes the group's long-term prospects.  
"They have a very, very strong organic growth profile," said HSBC James Capel analyst Umit Safak. "They have very substantial expansions coming up," he added.
These include expansions of the Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg copper and gold mine in Indonesia, as well as a stake in new gold mine on Papua New Guinea's Lihir island. Lihir is 22.8 percent owned by Southern Gold, which owned 75 percent owned by RTZ-CRA
"They have a very substantial exploration areas and a lot of very, very profitable projects in the pipeline," Safak said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
The world's biggest mining house, RTZ Corp Plc-CRA Ltd, is set to report a sharp fall in annual profit this week after shouldering a slide in metal prices during the year and battling problems with its U.S. copper smelter, mining analysts said.
The group, which has operations spanning the globe, is on average expected to post a 26-percent fall in net profit before exceptional items to US$1.067 billion for calendar 1996, a Reuter survey of six Australian brokerages revealed.
RTZ-CRA, a dual-listed merger of British-based RTZ Plc and Australian-based CRA Ltd, is due to announce its earnings on Thursday. It made US$1.441 billion in 1995.
Australian analysts' forecasts range between US$1.04 billion and US$1.097 billion, although private forecasting service Barceps quoted much lower numbers in a survey last month.
The culprits behind RTZ-CRA's profit slump are seen as the copper price, which dipped below 90 U.S. cents a pound after the Sumitomo trading scandal erupted in June, a weak aluminium price and problems with the flagship Bingham Canyon copper smelter.
Together, copper and aluminium earned almost 41 percent of RTZ-CRA's total revenue in 1995, and metal prices were promising enough early in 1996 for the group to talk of higher earnings.
But metal prices caught a cold and the prospects of improved profits also began to look sick mid-year, when the Sumitomo Corp trading scandal sent international copper prices crashing.
Yasuo Hamanaka, a star trader who once dominated the copper market, has admitted charges of fraud and forgery and accepted blame for a scandal that cost Sumitomo $2.6 billion and devalued the copper inventories of metals companies around the world.
"Everything peaked ahead of this Hamanaka copper thing," said Peter O'Connor of Macquarie Bank.
"Most commodities slid from June on through to about September, October and there's been a bit of recovery in most metal prices since that time."
RTZ-CRA's iron ore business was also a disappointment, one analyst said, noting that sales for the year dropped six percent despite a lift in annual output.
Adding salt to the wound, the gold price also languished. Gold is a sensitive area for the mining giant, since it is fundamentally opposed to selling its production forward at a fixed price to lock in revenue.
RTZ-CRA's coal mines are also not expected to have relieved some of the pain inflicted on the group by weak prices. One analyst expects coal earnings to fall 10 percent in 1996.
RTZ-CRA's troubled Bingham Canyon smelter in Utah has stirred the deepest concerns among analysts, who have been waiting for the new plant to get it right after 18 months of hobbled operation. The smelter is still not operating at full capacity and soon faces a six-week shut-down soon for major modifications.
Copper division earnings are forecast to plunge by some 40 percent, according to HSBC James Capel's forecast.
Still, the brokerage likes the group's long-term prospects, which include a copper mine in Chile and a copper and gold mine in Indonesia.
"They have a very, very strong organic growth profile," said HSBC James Capel analyst Umit Safak. "They have very substantial expansions coming up," he added.
Australian casino company Crown Ltd said on Tuesday its earnings were likely to suffer due to lost time at its new casino complex in Melbourne.
Crown, which has seen its share price fall as doubts emerge over its profit outlook, confirmed that a recent heatwave forced workers at the site to down tools for a number of days.
"I don't think we have made a calculation yet on what effect it will have on the bottom line, but it's something you don't need in this part of the project," Crown spokesman Gary O'Neill said. "I think it will (impact profit)," he added.  
Crown had planned to open its new A$1.6 billion casino, hotel and shopping complex in Melbourne in March. It is now aiming for late April and maybe even May, O'Neill told Reuters.
"We are still hoping to open towards the end of April...but things like this don't help obviously and it could have a small effect on the bottom line. It could put the open date back to May," he said.
O'Neill was commenting on a newspaper report which said members of the Electrical Trades Union (ETU) stopped work 10 times this month as the temperature topped 35 degrees Celcius.  
"There were 10 days when the temperature was over 35 degrees, but I don't think we lost all of that time," O'Neill said. "I think we lost a number of working days."
Crown also rejected a bearish earnings forecast made by accountants Ernst and Young.
The forecast was cited in an  independent report sent to Crown shareholders recently.
It quotes Ernst and Young as forecasting basic earnings per share of 3.76 cents in 1997/98 (July-June), compared with brokers' average forecast of 14.8 cents for the same year.  
The brokers' forecast was based on a mean pre-abnormal net profit of A$87.5 million for 1997/98, according to Barceps forecasting service. Crown reported net profit after abnormals of A$58.38 million in 1995/96.
"We obviously don't agree with it (the Ernst and Young forecast)," O'Neill said.
"Right at the moment, it's a very highly speculative period of time. It's just prior to our opening and people are tending to jump at shadows a little bit," he added.  
Crown's share price has fallen steeply over the past month. It stood at A$2.45 at 0300 GMT (2.00 p.m.) on Tuesday, down from its closing high so far this year of A$2.76 on January 22 and its 12 month high at A$3.06.
Crown is owned 30.9 percent by Hudson Conway Ltd, the operator of Crown casino at its existing premises. Hudson Conway also has options to buy 74.5 million new shares in Crown.
Crown is currently negotiating to buy back the casino management rights from Hudson Conway.
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and its allies agreed on Tuesday to lift a ban on holding companies put in place by U.S. Occupation forces shortly after World War Two.
The repeal of the ban will help Japanese firms restructure and boost their international competitiveness, party members said.
"The three parties agreed to lift the ban, as a diversified corporate management is seen as a prerequisite when we consider international competition known as mega-competition," said Taku Yamasaki, chairman of LDP's policy-setting committee.
While the anti-monopoly law had played a major role in helping develop Japan's economy in the past 50 years, changes were needed to carry out economic and financial reform, he said.
The agreement among the three parties -- the LDP, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the small Sakigake party -- will enable the government to work out necessary changes to the anti-monopoly law and submit them to the current session of parliament in March.
Yamasaki said the revised law could go into effect within a year, possibly next January.
Lifting the ban is also needed to allow implementation of a plan unveiled late last year to restructure telecom giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp (NTT) into several companies under a holding-company umbrella.
A holding company is a firm which has control of one or more other companies, often by having a majority of shares in each subsidiary, but does not engage in a specific business.
U.S. Occupation forces introduced the ban in 1947 to break up powerful conglomerates known as "zaibatsu", which the United States believed had contributed to Japan's war effort.
In the United States and many European countries, however, a holding company is a common corporate structure.
Yamasaki said certain types of holding companies would be banned to avoid an excessive concentration of business strength and to avoid a rebirth of zaibatsu.
Under the agreement reached by the three parties, a holding company that would have assets of 300 billion yen ($2.45 billion) or more would have to notify the Fair Trade Commission, Japan's anti-monopoly watchdog, of its establishment.
The establishment of a holding company which would have total assets of 15 trillion yen ($122 billion) or more would require prior government approval.
Yamasaki said 315 firms in Japan had assets exceeding 300 billion yen ($2.45 billion) on a group basis, while even big firms such as NTT and Tokyo Electric Power Co Inc did not have assets exceeding 15 trillion yen ($122 billion).
Hideo Fujiwara, senior executive research fellow at LTCB Research Institute, said even if the ban was lifted not many firms are expected to change their corporate structure immediately.
Big companies such as Sony Corp and Canon Inc which had already split their operations were likely to set up holding companies soon, but many others were not, he said.
Many bank officials have said that holding companies could be a key to coping with "Big Bang" financial reforms, which are designed to liberalise Japan's financial markets by 2001.
Yamasaki said the government still has to work out changes in finance-related laws to enable financial institutions to establish holding companies once the amended anti-monopoly law takes effect. ($1=122 yen)
Commercial Union (CU) became the latest victim of sterling's recent strength on Wednesday, as the British insurance giant reported a sharp fall in profits for 1996.
A 64 million pound ($104.8 million) currency loss by the company, three-quarters of whose profits come from outside Britain, largely accounted for a near 13 percent fall in operating profits for the year to 444 million pounds.
U.S. weather related losses of 41 million pounds and severe competition in the general insurance market were a further drag on profits.
But overall the results broadly matched market expectations with the life business, which accounts for around 44 percent of premiums, showing healthy growth once currency effects were stripped out.
CU said it intended to continue to expand its life operations to take advantage of its "more consistent profit streams and its exciting growth prospects".
Finance director Peter Foster said the group would not rule out acquisitions to stimulate further growth.
"Our strategy of more emphasis on life business has proved viable so far...we will be looking at any suitable acquisition that we may come across," Foster said.
This might include overseas businesses but the company stressed it did not mean it would grow solely through acquisitions and that the focus remained on organic growth.
According to CU the strength in sterling had masked significant profit rises in continental Europe.
Over the year as a whole, the pound advanced 10 percent against the dollar, 17 percent against the French franc and around 12 percent against the mark.
After adjusting for the exchange rate, overall operating profits were down just three percent on 1995 and life profits 13 percent higher at 241 million.
Despite the underlying operating performance worries about the impact of the currency on CU's net asset value (NAV) prompted a sharp markdown in the shares.
The NAV was down to 545 pence at year-end 1996 from 582 pence a year earlier, though analysts said there had been quite a strong recovery in net asset value in the last six weeks.
By late afternoon, CU shares were 21 pence lower at 669 pence.
In general insurance, good results in France, the Netherlands and Canada helped offset part of the effects of competition in the British market and U.S. weather claims.
Despite this and even adjusting for the currency, general insurance profits were 21 percent lower at 356 million pounds.
Echoing comments from Guradian Royal Exchange (GRE) which reported results yesterday, CU said it was seeing signs of a rise in motor market rates.
Like GRE it expected to see motor rates firming through 1997. Household rates were also likely to edge ahead, particularly given recent storms in Britain and a cold snap at the start of the year.
($ = 0.610 British Pounds)
Prudential Corp Plc, Britain's biggest life insurance group, reported a healthy rise in profits on Wednesday and said British operations were expected to perform strongly again in the coming year.
But the company made no comment about negotiations with the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) over the ownership of so-called orphan assets.
Prudential (Pru) finance director Jonathan Bloomer said discussions with the DTI were continuing, but said it was difficult to say how long they would last.
"We always thought they would take a long time and there's nothing sensible that can be added to that. I think discussions will continue for a while yet this year."
One analyst suggested that it was encouraging that the company had passed up the opportunity to tone down expectations.
The Pru is believed to be looking to free up around three billion pounds ($4.9 billion) of orphan assets -- money built up in with-profits funds surplus to policyholders' needs.
Pru operating profits for the year rose over eight percent to 873 million pounds, with profits from continuing operations of 691 million pounds.
The combination of the confidence about new business prospects in 1997 and a higher-than-expected level of profitable new business in 1996 helped lift the shares by 11 pence to 574 pence.
A 10 percent rise in the dividend to a slightly higher than forecast 17.3 pence per share also provided support.
Pru's chief executive Sir Peter Davis called it a very successful year and said the results demonstrated the strength of the group's core business.
With the disposal of Mercantile &amp; General (M&amp;G) and the launch of Prudential Banking, considerable progress had been made in focusing the group on markets where the Pru had the expertise and the critical mass to generate real value for shareholders, he said.
The sale of M&amp;G for 1.75 billion pounds in December realised a profit of 766 million pounds.
Prudential Banking, launched on October 1, is already processing applications for 103 million pounds of mortgages and has taken 98 million pounds in deposits.
The company plans to expand the product range and move in to the personal loan market later this year.
Bloomer repeated the Pru's interest in establishing the high street distribution network which a building society acquisition would provide. With net cash at year-end standing at 1.1 billion pounds, the group has the financial strength to contemplate such a move.
But Bloomer said it was unlikely to make a move unless it enhanced shareholder value which, given current price levels in the sector, may be difficult to pull off.
The Pru is currently involved in a takeover battle for Scottish Amicable and made an initial 1.9 billion pound offer for the mutually-owned life insurer earlier this month, only 250 million pounds of which will come from shareholders' funds.
Prudential UK operating profits from the insurance business increased eight percent to 398 million pounds and profits for the savings and investment business were 323 million pounds, an increase of six percent.
After cutting Prudential UK's cost base by 170 million pounds over the past four years, it was approaching a point of diminishing returns, though the group was looking to reduce unit costs further, Bloomer said.
U.S. operations Jackson National Life saw operating profits growing 35 percent to $512 million.
While confident about the outlook for the business, Bloomer said growth was unlikely to continue at the 40 percent rate seen in recent years. ($ = 0.610 British Pounds)
Prudential Corp Plc, Britain's largest life insurance group, reported a healthy rise in profits on Wednesday and said it expected British operations to continue to perform strongly in the coming year.
But the company remained tight-lipped about negotiations with the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) over the ownership of so-called orphan assets.
Prudential (Pru) finance director Jonathan Bloomer said discussions with the DTI were continuing, but said it was difficult to say how long they might last.
"We always thought they would take a long time and there's nothing sensible that can be added to that. I think discussions will continue for a while yet this year."
Analysts believe the Pru is looking to free up around three billion pounds ($4.9 billion) of the orphan assets -- money built up in with-profits funds surplus to policyholders' needs.
Pru operating profits for the year rose over eight percent to 873 million pounds, with profits from continuing operations of 691 million pounds. Reflecting the 1996 performance and the group's confidence for the future, the dividend was raised by 10 percent to 17.3 pence per share.
Pru shares gave a muted response to the figures, adding seven pence to 570 pence by mid-morning.
Pru's chief executive Sir Peter Davis called it a very successful year and said the results demonstrated the strength of the group's core business.
With the disposal of Mercantile &amp; General (M&amp;G) and the launch of Prudential Banking, considerable progress had been made in focusing the group on markets where the Pru had the expertise and the critical mass to generate real value for shareholders, he said.
The sale of M&amp;G for 1.75 billion pounds in December realised a profit of 766 million pounds.
Prudential Banking, launched on October 1, is already processing applications for 103 million pounds of mortgages and has taken 98 million pounds in deposits.
The company plans to expand the product range and move in to the personal loan market later this year.
Bloomer repeated the Pru's interest in establishing the high street distribution network which a building society acquisition would provide. With net cash at year-end standing at 1.1 billion pounds, the group has the financial strength to contemplate such a move.
But Bloomer said it was unlikely to make a move unless it enhanced shareholder value which, given current price levels in the sector, may be difficult to pull off.
The Pru is currently involved in a takeover battle for Scottish Amicable and made an initial 1.9 billion pound offer for the mutually-owned life insurer earlier this month, only 250 million pounds of which will come from shareholders' funds.
Prudential UK operating profits from insurance business increased eight percent to 398 million pounds and operating profits for the British savings and investment business was 323 million pounds, an increase of six percent.
After cutting Prudential UK's cost base by 170 million pounds over the past four years, it was approaching a point of diminishing returns, though the group was looking to reduce unit costs further, Bloomer said.
U.S. operations Jackson National Life saw operating profits growing 35 percent to $512 million.
While confident about the outlook for the business, Bloomer said growth was unlikely to continue at the 40 percent rate seen in recent years. ($ = 0.610 British Pounds)
Almost 8 out of 10 people in Britain are opposed to insurance companies using genetic test results as the basis for charging higher premiums or refusing to provide cover, according to an opinion poll commissioned by The Genetics Forum released on Wednesday.
The news comes just a week after the Association of British Insurers (ABI) announced that people seeking life insurance would be required to report the results of any genetic tests to enable insurers to assess the financial impact on the industry over the next two years.
The poll also underlined fears that the ABI's stance would discourage people from undergoing genetic testing with almost three out of ten people asked saying they would not take a test now they are required to disclose the results to an insurer.
This could lead to people being deterred from seeking diagnosis of some treatable conditions or prevent them being able to make informed decisions about starting a family.
According to the ABI guidelines detrimental test results may be taken into account for any type of insurance except life cover linked to mortgages of less than 100,000 pounds though several larger companies have distanced themselves from this.
Standard Life, for instance, has said it would not seek the results of genetic tests for any policies.
Julie Sheppard of The Genetics Forum, a non-profit organisation committed to the socially responsible use of genetic engineering said that the poll showed that the public did not trust insurance companies with genetic information.
"Genetic tests are still in their infancy and their conclusions may remain uncertain and imprecise for many years. Many tests will only tell an individual that they may, as opposed to will, develop a disease in later life."
"It isn't sensible or fair to be charged more for your insurance or refused it altogether on the basis of a condition you may never get."
The Genetic Forum poll also found that almost four out of 10 people would object if a tissue sample which they had given anonymously was used for research without their knowledge or consent.
Seven out of 10 said they would object if their anonymous tissue was sold to a pharmaceutical company for research without their knowledge or consent.
The Genetic Forum said too much was being left to the discretion of insurance companies and individual researchers.
The Human Genetics Advisory Commission (HGAC) set up last year after a British parliamentary committee called for the creation of a body to consider the "broad social, ethical and/or economic consequences of developments in human genetics" meets for the first time on February 27.
Now that China's Deng Xiaoping is dead, Hong Kong faces a future without the figurehead who helped to assure the territory's confidence and stability, among the two most important words in the investor's lexicon.
As the architect of the "One country, two systems" policy, Deng provided the framework that will guide Hong Kong's return to China on July 1 this year.
His open-door policy also transformed the territory's economy from an industrial and manufacturing hub into a service centre geared to China's emergence.
Deng's passing last week was an important milestone for the city-state he helped to shape.
The immediate impact of his death would be small, as the paramount leader's nuts-and-bolts involvement in Hong Kong affairs was limited.
But the longer term effect would be significant, particularly as Hong Kong prepared for its July 1 transition into a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China, after more than 150 years of British colonial rule.
"To all intents and purposes, he was inactive but while he was there, his standing allowed large numbers of people to move and shake on the basis of his authority," said David Dodwell, author and director at Jardine Fleming Holdings.
"That is the biggest imponderable: to what extent could the people promoting economic reform become vulnerable."
ECONOMIC REFORM TO CONTINUE REGARDLESS
Few doubt that the economic reforms Deng initiated and upon which Hong Kong depends so heavily will proceed.
Too much change has already become entrenched, and China's growing number of jobless will require continued progress as the private sector, most of it built and supported by foreign investment, is the nation's only job creator, Dodwell said.
That is a positive factor for Hong Kong, which has been the primary investment gateway into China. In 1995, Hong Kong accounted for $80 billion of direct investment in China, or 60 percent of a total realised foreign direct investment of $133 billion.
Rising foreign investment also would imply increased demand for services, which would at least guarantee steady economic growth, albeit at slower rates than 20 years ago.
"We won't see double digit growth rates again," said George Leung, economist at Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.
"I would also not see growth slowing sharply, to say one or two percent, because Hong Kong still has the backing of China. If China grows from nine to 10 percent each year you can imagine the demand for services in Hong Kong."
THE POLITICAL PACE OF CHANGE
The pace of reform -- and of economic growth -- has always been a hot political issue in China, as has management of the industrial sector which is dominated by huge, labour intensive and debt-laden state enterprises.
"There seems to have been a certain policy inertia. What will the next step be?" asked Michael Martin, economist at the government-funded Hong Kong Trade Development Council.
All eyes will be on China's 15th National People's Congress in October for signs of renewed momentum in policy-making and the collective leadership's commitment to change.
"As that new domestic economic policy and particularly industrial policy emerges it will have implications for what Hong Kong's role will be for the next decade or so," Martin said.
Hong Kong can rest assured that the role Deng carved out for it 15 years ago will remain intact for the time being, Martin said. China's absence of basic financial infrastructure, a reliable legal system or even property rights seems to assure Hong Kong's near-term future as the nation's investment gateway.
But as China develops, the territory's role could diminish.
"Its role over time is likely to become more modest," said Dodwell. "Over time, the mainland Chinese economy and companies in the mainland in centres such as Shanghai will become more successful and the economic centres of gravity will shift."
HONG KONG KEEPS WARY WATCH ON SHANGHAI
Shanghai is viewed with suspicion by many in Hong Kong, who fear its rapid economic progress and close ties to the current collective leadership in Beijing.
"Shanghai has for many years now been given priority by the Chinese leadership as they tried to rebuild strength there but I don't honestly see that those commitments to help Shanghai to grow, will be in any way at the expense of Hong Kong," said Dodwell.
Hong Kong's best scenario for the future will depend on a China that succeeds, but not too well, Dodwell said. "If China really motors and gets really clever, it doesn't need Hong Kong any more."
But Martin said China is going to need more than one financial centre, one port or one major transportation hub.
"Rather than a situation where they are competing head to head, it will be more a situation of how the two can complement each other for the overall growth of China," he said.
HONG KONG MUST KEEP LOOKING OUT, NOT IN....
Martin stressed Hong Kong's international role, partly because the world's trade structure is shifting more quickly than in the past. Production facilities are more mobile, flexible and integrated and Hong Kong's international exposure and expertise will remain crucial to China's success, he said.
"The future of southern China depends on its ability to respond to those shifts and reorient activities into new product areas, or move up the technological ladder," he said.
But there are other, more subtle concerns, including a common fear that China will plunder Hong Kong's coffers.
China has pledged its support for Hong Kong's monetary independence, but economic tzar Zhu Rongji in the past has made frequent pleas to the wealthy coastal provinces in favour of China's poorer central areas.
The price of plundering Hong Kong would be high, Dodwell warned. International investors have committed $330 billion so far in China, two-thirds of which came through Hong Kong. Actual investment from Hong Kong is over $100 billion, much of it from overseas Chinese.
"In theory, it's always posible but it would be a one-off gift. Is China really going to cut off its nose to spite its face?" Dodwell asked. "If it came in and scooped up the pot, what demonstration does that give to the overseas economy, and particularly the overseas Chinese economy?"
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Eastman Kodak Co secured only a partial exit from the bruising copier wars with the $684 million sale on Monday of its copier-marketing and service operations to Britain's Danka Business Systems Plc.
Prompted by chronic financial weakness, highlighted by the fact Kodak's copier sales of $1.8 billion yield only $20 million in annual operating profits, the sale prompted segment leader Xerox Corp to throw down the gauntlet to Danka.
"They're on our turf now and are going to have to chase us to win business," said Xerox executive Gill Hatch.  
Hatch predicted the Danka-Kodak deal will bring pricing pressures to the copier business. "Suffice to say that Danka has been aggressive, and will continue to be aggressive," Hatch said.
According to Danka chief executive Dan Doyle, the acquisition and a 10-year alliance with Kodak will give high-flying Danka a full line of copiers to offer low, middle and upmarket customers around the world.
Kodak is retaining its manufacturing and development operations in copiers, as well as some key technology.  
The remaining Kodak businesses will have about $600 million a year in sales, or a third of its former turnover. Danka will be its main customer as the primary distributor of Kodak copiers and printers.
"Danka's growth will be our growth," said Kodak co-chief operating officer Carl Kohrt.
Kohrt predicted Kodak's rump copier businesses would be profitable by the end of 1997 and that the transaction, netting Kodak about $600 million in cash, would be immediately accretive to earnings. The deal should close by December 31.  
Analyst Gary Schneider of Bear Stearns said he had hoped Kodak would have quit copiers entirely and will have to prove to Wall Street it can turn around the financial performance of the remaining copier businesses.
"The question is what kind of normalized earnings can you get out of those," he said.
Monday's deal is just the latest bit of corporate trimming at Kodak, which has spun off and sold businesses, generating some $8 billion. The company has in the 1990s exited pharmaceuticals, household goods and chemicals.  
The company said last winter it wanted to exit or reposition its copier businesses because its financial performance was subpar and promised little hope for a turnaround as it stood.
Kohrt said the deal with Danka will stimulate sales of Kodak copiers. "What we've really needed is pull-through from the market," he said.
Danka chief executive Dan Doyle said Kodak's strong focus on big customers needing high-volume copiers and services dovetailed with Danka's traditional presence among low and middle-market customers.
News of the deal boosted Danka's American Depositary Receipts, which closed up 6-5/8 at 36-1/2. Kodak closed down 1/2 at 71-3/4.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713.
Lawyers in a class-action suit against cigarette makers won the right to question and videotape the chief executives of several top tobacco companies, lawyers said on Thursday.
The chief executives of Brown &amp; Williamson, a subsidiary of B.A.T Industries Plc; the tobacco unit of Philip Morris Cos Inc; the RJ Reynolds Tobacco unit of RJR Nabisco, and Loews Corp's Lorillard were covered in an order issued by Dade County Judge Robert Kaye, according to Edward Moss, a lawyer for Brown &amp; Williamson.  
Stanley Rosenblatt, one of the lawyers bringing the class-action suit on behalf of U.S. flight attendants allegedly sickened by second-hand smoke, said he may use the videotapes at a trial in Dade County Court scheduled to begin in June.
Rosenblatt alleges in his lawsuit that tobacco company scientists and executives conspired to hide the dangers of smoking, even when the industry's own research backed up scores of independent studies that found smoking was unhealthy.  
The suit covers an estimated 60,000 flight attendants who never smoked and who suffer from lung ailments or other sicknesses and worked for U.S. airlines before in-flight smoking was banned.
Moss and other tobacco company lawyers had argued that Rosenblatt questioned tobacco industry chief executives several years ago.
Rosenblatt argued that many of the executives he questioned had retired and that scores of industry documents allegedly backing his claims had since become public.  
Moss said he and other tobacco company lawyers were considering appealing Kaye's order.
Kaye said in a separate order that he would privately review some 1,500 industry documents for possible use by Rosenblatt in the trial.
The tobacco lawyers say the documents, many of them made public by a legal assistant in a law firm representing a tobacco company, are privilged communications. They say the documents should not be used as evidence because the assistant had no right to the documents.
Anti-tobacco activists have described the documents as evidence that the industry for decades knew the risks of smoking while aggressively selling cigarettes and denying the dangers.
((--Miami Newsroom, 305-374-5013))
Pensions and property group Liberty International Holdings  said on Thursday it might go on the acquisition trail to develop its financial services interests.
The company, 69 percent-owned by South African insurance giant Liberty Life, said it was always open to acquisitions and was willing to use its strong balance sheet to fund them.
"We've got various developments in the financial services area -- unit trusts, pensions and offshore. Those are the areas we want to be in long term and if they lead us into acquisitions that's fine - but we don't feel any pressure to do them," said Liberty managing director David Fischel.
Liberty currently has around 380 million pounds ($619.1 million) in cash on its balance sheet though this may have little bearing on the size of any future acquisition.
"We could spend one billion, two billion or 50 million pounds, it depends on the quality of the acquisition," said Fischel.
Liberty, which has a 72 percent stake in Britain's fourth largest quoted largest property company Capital Shopping Centres, which it floated as a separate company in 1996, launched a new, low-cost pension vehicle -- PensionStore -- in January.
It also controls Portfolio Fund Management Limited, a British unit trust group with some 50 million pounds under management.
In October, the group announced an alliance with British Telecom and post office fund managers Hermes which it promised would "demystify" the British pension market.
At the launch of the venture which offers specialised investment services to the UK pensions industry, Liberty chairman Donald Gordon said he believed pensions would be the fastest growing business in the world over the next 20 years.
The possibility of an acquistion was raised as Liberty reported a seven percent increase in pre-tax profits for 1996 to 100.4 million pounds.
The dividend at 16 pence per share was up 10 percent on the previous year. Liberty shares, however, slipped on the results ending the day 13-1/2 pence lower at 466-1/2 pence.
The advance in profits was helped by the performance of CSC which owns two of Britain's largest out of town shopping centres - Lakeside, Thurrock, east of London, and the MetroCentre, Gateshead, in north east England..
Strong underlying rental growth - up 38 percent at Lakeside - in an improving retailing environment was the main factor behind the performance.
CSC, which has five of the top ten shopping centres in Britain and attracts over 155 million customers annually, was enjoying a "very good growth phase" and had a strong position in the market according to Fischel.
The group could grow it further by expanding existing centres or building new ones such as the 250 million pound shopping centre development at Braehead Park, Glasgow, he said.
Shares in CSC climbed 69 percent to 366 pence in 1996. Adjusting for the CSC share price, Liberty's net asset value per share would have amounted to around 500 pence per share at year-end.
The shares finished the day 1-1/2 pence lower at 392-1/2 pence. ($= 0.613 British Pounds)
Legislators introduced two bills Thursday to overturn the Clinton administration's export limits on computer encryption technology, a key component of online commerce and global communications.
Encryption products, which scramble information and render it unreadable without a password or software "key," were once the realm of spies and generals.
But with the booming growth of the Internet, secret coding is now used for everything from keeping a business's e-mail confidential to protecting a consumer's credit card number if it is transmitted online.
Senators said export restrictions on encryption products were hindering the development of the Internet and making it impossible for U.S. companies to compete with foreign firms.
The bills "roll back current restrictions on the export of strong cryptography so that high-tech U.S. firms are free to compete in the global marketplace and meet the demand of customers," Sen. Pat Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and co-sponsor of both bills, said at a Capitol Hill news conference.
"Online commerce will never reach its full potential under the policies of this and past administrations," said Sen. Conrad Burns, a Montana Republican , also a co-sponsor.
The bills would generally allow a U.S. company to export a product with strong encryption features if similiar products were being offered for sale by a foreign supplier. Leahy and Burns introduced similiar measures in the last Congress.
Under the current Clinton administration policy, a company may export strong encryption only if the product also includes a feature to allow the U.S. government to crack the code by recovering the software "key" when acting under a court order or similiar authority. The administration says it must be able to crack the codes to catch international criminals and terrorists.
If the bills became law, mandatory key recovery would be banned but the government would still be permitted to restrict the export of encryption for military use or to countries posing terrorist threats.
The legislation would also write into law the current policy permitting unrestricted domestic use of encryption -- but one bill would criminalize the use of codes to obstruct justice.
The Clinton administration signalled its displeasure with the new bills.
"We continue to be disappointed with Senator Burns' approach because it does not balance the needs of individual privacy and economic growth with national security and public safety," Undersecretary of Commerce William Reinsch said. "We believe there is a market for key recovery products from businesses who recognise the need for a back door to their own corporate data."
Computer companies and privacy advocates hailed the bills.
"Both bills promote the freedom of this nation's fastest-growing industry to provide customers here and abroad with products they demand," said Robert Holleyman, president of the Business Software Alliance. The group includes Microsoft Corp., International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus Development and Apple Computer Inc., among others.
"This is the most important privacy legislation before the Congress today," said Jerry Berman, executive director of the Centre for Democracy and Technology.
Berman, who strongly opposes mandatory key recovery, said the policy ought to be "my lock, my key."
Hong Kong Financial Secretary Donald Tsang painted a rosy picture of an expanding economy on Thursday, just two weeks before he presents the budget that will straddle the territory's handover to Chinese rule.
With economic growth forecast at 5.5 percent this year and the trade picture improving, Hong Kong's economy is well positioned ahead of the territory's transition from British to Chinese sovereignty on July 1, Tsang said.
"Hong Kong will start life as a Special Administrative Region (of China) in sound economic shape, with every prospect that we will remain the most attractive business location in this region," Tsang told a Hong Kong Investment Fund Association lunch.
Tsang is due to release the annual budget on March 12.
He revealed the government's economic forecasts but declined to disclose its fiscal reserves or comment on an expected fiscal surplus of up HK$20 billion (US$2.56 billion), substantially higher than a prior government forecast of HK$1.6 billion.
"It makes good sense to separate clearly our economic forecasts from the annual budget," he said.
"To maintain our position as a major centre for international business, entrepreneurs and investors need prompt access to the best information on our current performance and our future prospects," he said.
Tsang said improvements in foreign trade and rising domestic demand would continue to support Hong Kong's economy through 1997, following a turnaround in the middle of last year.
Consumption and investment were the primary drivers behind last year's recovery, aided by an unemployment rate that fell to 2.6 percent and inflation capped at 6.7 percent, he said.
Private consumption is expected to rise still further by 5.5 percent this year, he said.
The massive airport construction project and public housing programmes boosted investment levels in 1996, as did private sector activity in building and construction, he said.
"The feel-good factor returned in the middle of 1996," Tsang told reporters after his speech.
While investment rates are set to fall this year as the Chek Lap Kok airport project nears completion, Hong Kong's economy should continue to leap ahead, thanks to an improving trade picture that will benefit from steady or high growth rates in the United States, Europe and East Asia, he said.
"We expect the economy to perform significantly better than last year," Tsang said. "The improved performance will be generated by faster growth in both domestic demand and foreign trade. We also expect confidence levels to remain high in 1997."
Exports of goods are forecast to rise 8.5 percent this year against a decline of eight percent last year. Exports of services are expected to grow eight percent in 1997 against a rise of six percent last year.
Although domestic exports should remain static, re-exports should rise 10 percent this year compared with eight percent last year, Tsang said.
Although private consumption growth indicates greater confidence in the territory's future, Tsang warned that Hong Kong was experiencing an increase in price pressure that would push up the benchmark consumer price index (A) by seven percent in 1997 from an inflation rate of 6.7 percent in 1996.
"That is our forecast at this moment," he told reporters. "It will be revised in the middle of the year... I think that seven percent is a reasonable estimate."
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843 6441
China's state refiner Sinopec is pushing through a series of measures to alleviate diesel shortages that have sparked a bizarre rise in prices in the country since late 1996, Chinese oil sources said this week.
After two successive rises in official diesel prices in the fourth quarter of 1996, Sinopec's Beijing headquarters is now urging its almost 40 refineries to increase the cut of diesel from every barrel of crude they refine.
"Gas oil (diesel) has been in short supply in the country as a whole since the fourth quarter of last year," a well-placed Sinopec source said by telephone from Beijing.
"As for Sinopec, we are trying to regulate the production of gas oil as against gasoline to meet market demand," he said.
The current gasoline/diesel production ratio stands at 1:1.3 for almost all of China's refineries. But Sinopec in Beijing is pushing for a more suitable ratio of 1:1.4, the source said, adding that the change would take some months to materialise.
Diesel import quotas, which were not fully utilised in 1996 due to high international prices, might also have exacerbated the shortage in the supply chain, and China might be forced to import more this year, the Sinopec source said.
He declined to estimate the amount of diesel likely to be imported this year.
The plan to raise domestic diesel output comes after two officially sanctioned price rises in late 1996 to encourage refiners to produce more diesel, Chinese oil sources said.
Domestic diesel prices had been frozen at 1,900 yuan per tonne since May 1994, when Beijing imposed strict price ceilings to crack down on profiteering. Prices were raised to 1,990 yuan per tonne in October 1996 and 2,190 yuan per tonne in December.
While Beijing, fearful of inflation, keeps a watch on prices, Chinese oil sources admit there is little central authorities can do to prevent flagrant price spikes in far-flung provinces hit by shortages.
"In situations of shortage, provinces can raise prices, it is difficult for Beijing to control," the Sinopec source said.
However, some Chinese sources said earlier this week that shortages might only be isolated to some inland provinces as some coastal regions were still enjoying high inventories.
"Storage levels are healthy in some areas," said a Singapore-based trader with Chinese state oil trader Sinochem.
Storage terminals at some coastal regions were at full capacity after importers sucked in a massive 1.9 million tonnes that started arriving from mid-January, a Sinopec source in Singapore said.
"Central authorities were afraid there wouldn't be enough for spring and even refiners were urged to crank up their gas oil production," he said.
Authorities might have frozen import quotas for now -- until the bottleneck clears -- but it was likely to be short term because China was short of diesel for this year, he added.
A Chinese oil trader from the southern Maoming refinery, China's second largest, said diesel prices had hit as high as 5,000 yuan per tonne in some provinces suffering shortages.
"Prices were between 4,000 and even 5,000 yuan in December in places like Hunan and Sichuan," the trader said by telephone earlier this week. Refineries raised prices because their net costs had increased.
Chinese refiners have had sharply reduced profit margins since Beijing raised domestic crude prices by about 110 yuan in January 1996 to between 864 and 794 yuan a tonne on 80 percent of its crude sold within the country.
Fearful of an inflationary backlash, Beijing had, until October, kept prices of all oil products unchanged. Sinopec, which made exceptional profits in 1995 and 1994, bore the brunt of the rise in crude prices.
"Refining margins last year, compared with the earlier two years, were very bad. A lot of our profit went to our upstream companies," the Sinopec source said.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 28436934
Britain's National Westminster Bank Plc said on Friday it would be making a first half provision of 50 million pounds ($81.4 million) after finding mispricing errors in the interest rate options book of its Natwest Markets unit.
The bank said a senior trader had been suspended for "failure to supervise", pending the conclusion of an internal inquiry.
A second trader, who had resigned from NatWest before the errors had been discovered, has been reported to the Securities &amp; Futures Authority (SFA) regulator.
NatWest said that no clients had been affected by the discovery, adding that the Bank of England was being kept informed.
The SFA confirmed NatWest Markets had sent it information which it was now studying.
An SFA spokesman said no statement was planned at the moment.
"Clearly we have to look at the information, assess the situation and decidewhat is the next step foward."
A Bank of England spokesman also declined to comment further.
Dealers were left guessing who was behind the transactions that led to the provision or even whether they took place on an exchange or the over-the-counter options market.
The London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, the site for a large part of London's options trading, had no immediate comment on the news.
Options are contracts which give buyers the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying security at a set price in the future.
Mispricing could arise in various ways, for instance, a broker could be given a price from clients but somehow get the price wrong in executing the trade.
One options dealer suggested it could be down to how an individual dealt with issues such as margins on his firm's trades.
"Basically if you're a senior trader or a top person you can actually change prices or positions for margining," the dealer said.
One highlight of Natwest Markets' results released earlier this week was a 25 percent rise in profits from what it called "other dealing" to 171 million pounds.
That was mainly the result of strong increases in rate risk management products, among them interest rate options.
Derivatives markets have been involved in a string of large losses for companies around the world.
While the exact nature of the "mispricing errors" is unknown at this stage, the memory of Nick Leeson's activities in the derivatives market is still fresh in many minds.
The $1.4 billion losses run up by Leeson eventually led to the collapse of Barings in 1995 and its subsequent acquisition by Dutch bank ING .
The banking industry attracted more bad publicity last year after Morgan Grenfell sacked fund manger Peter Young after it was discovered he had breached rules on investing in unlisted companies.
The huge bonuses paid out by banks has been cited by some as one reason for the high risks some, like Leeson, are prepared to take.
Only yesterday Donald Gordon, a leading figure in the financial services industry and chairman of Liberty International attacked the payment of large bonuses by investment banks as a "massive over-incentivisation of personnel".
He said it had produced an "excessively materialistic culture" in the world's finacial markets which had led to a number of financial accidents and would undoubtedly lead to more dramatic catastrophes in the years to come. ($ = 0.614 British Pounds)
Lehman Brothers and state-owned China International United Petroleum and Chemicals Co Ltd (Unipec) on Monday announced settlement of a 22-month foreign-exchange trading quarrel and resolved to get on with business.
The US$44 million dispute over currency and swap option trading had been broiling since November 1994.
The settlement means that only one of Lehman's three high-profile disputes with Chinese state-owned companies remains to be resolved.
A joint statement by Unipec and Lehman said only that their foreign exchange trading dispute had been resolved.
"Unipec plays a vital role in China's economy as the largest importer of crude oil...with this situation behind us, Lehman Brothers is keen to get on with developing our business in China," Lehman said.
Unipec returned the compliment, saying that it anticipated working with Lehman in the future.  
Lehman filed a US$44 million lawsuit in New York in November 1994 claiming that the Chinese trader had reneged on obligations over certain foreign exchange and swap transactions after incurring losses.
Unipec had hit back with a counterclaim saying Lehman had taken orders from certain Hong Kong firms with which Unipec was not affiliated
"Unipec and Lehman have come to a settlement agreement. Lehman has cancelled the lawsuit, and we have cancelled our counterclaim," said a senior Unipec manager by telephone.
The quarrel brought unwelcome attention to Unipec and illuminated the sometimes unorthodox ways in which Chinese companies deal with foreign counterparts.
Oil industry watchers said the case had hurt the reputation of the Chinese oil trader, which was set up only in January 1993, and it would be a while before it regained the confidence of its peers.
"Damage has already been done to Unipec, and it has been suffering especially in the U.S., with everyone asking for letters of credit when the case exploded...it's better for them to close the matter," said an oil trading manager with a major oil company in Singapore.  
Another oil industry observer agreed, saying "it takes a while for people to accept them back."
Still outstanding is Lehman's US$53 million suit against China's Minmetals International Non-Ferrous Metals Trading Co, which arose in late 1994 in similar circumstances.
Minmetals subsequently filed a US$128 million countersuit, including six counter claims of fraud, alleging Lehman knew the investments were unsuitable for it.
"We would love to reach a settlement (with Minmetals). We are now in negotiations and that's about it," a Lehman spokesman in Hong Kong said by telephone.
Lehman in April reached a settlement with the New York branch of oil trader Sinochem, parent of Unipec, of a US$20 million lawsuit concerning losses incurred on US$300 million of securities trades which the Chinese firm refused to recognise.
The battle for control of Scottish Amicable became a three-way race on Friday as the deadline for firm offers for the mutually-owned life insurer passed.
The company said that it had received three initial bids from high street bank Abbey National Plc and insurance groups Prudential Corp Plc and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP).
Details of the bids were not released.
While technically the door is still open for other bidders to come in, a source close to the deal said that was "unrealistic" at this stage.
Under the terms of the auction process, ScotAm agreed it would make firm offers public if required by a bidder. It said none had asked it to do so.
With the auction effectively a sealed-bid process and bidders unable to see competing offers, there would appear to be little advantage in one company giving rivals a target by making public its own proposals.
AMP development director Jonathan Schwarz said the group believed it would be wrong to handicap discussions with ScotAm by conducting them in the "glare of publicity".
Both the Pru and Abbey said they had nothing to add to earlier statements.
Discussions with the three companies will be held with a view to obtaining final offers by mid-March.
ScotAm chairman Sandy Stewart said the three proposals represented an "excellent outcome to this phase of the process".
"We can now move on to the next phase with every expectation of delivering maximum value to policyholders."
The company said it would not be expressing an opinion on the merits or otherwise of any proposal until the evaluation process was complete. Last week ScotAm asked for firm offers for the company by today. It hopes to recommend a single proposal to policyholders by the end of March.
National Westminster Bank was among a "about half a dozen" companies which signed confidentiality agreements to gain access to ScotAm's books but pulled out earlier this week. Lloyds TSB has also admitted it ran the slide rule over ScotAm but said it felt the bid premium looked too high. Schwarz said ScotAm was one of a number of current opportunities which fulfilled the group's criteria. He said the group was looking to acquire British and U.S. businesses with quality local management, marketing and distribution in place which, with the backing of AMP's financial strength, could deliver "substantial organic growth". The auction was sparked by Abbey National's bid for the company at the end of January. That came barely two weeks after ScotAm had released its own proposals to drop mutual status and float on the London stock market. Abbey's offer was topped a week later by the Pru's 1.9 billion pound ($3.1 billion) bid, though that figure includes a 1.1 billion pound loan element. Both companies have said that their offers may be raised when they had more detailed financial information on ScotAm.
($ = 0.614 British Pounds)
The longer-term interests of a US$1 billion stake in Russian equity markets dictated last week's decision to unwind a controversial fund that planned to invest in Russian gas monopoly Gazprom, Regent Pacific Group Ltd said on Monday.
"We've had to sacrifice the smaller interest in Gazprom to the much bigger interest we've got in Russia overall," Jim Mellon, Regent Pacific's managing director, told Reuters.
Hong Kong-based Regent Pacific decided to back away last week from a dispute with Gazprom over a US$200 million fund designed to invest in the domestic shares of the gas giant.
"We don't want to get into a lengthy legal battle and jeopardise our (other) Russian funds," Mellon said.
"Gazprom is the biggest company (in Russia) and we certainly don't want to go up against them," Mellon said.
Gazprom restricts foreign investment to nine percent of share capital, which it issues in the form of American Depositary Shares.
These ADRs trade at four times the value of the domestic shares, which Regent's fund hoped to purchase because it was incorporated in Russia -- even though all the fundholders were foreign institutions.
Mellon defended the scheme on Monday as "completely legal" but said Regent backed away from a dispute with Gazprom after it asked Regent not to buy the domestic shares.
"There was never any question of foreigners getting their direct hands on the shares," said Mellon.
"If you consult any lawyer they'll tell you our scheme is absolutely watertight, completely legal, but from a practical point of view it's all very well for Regent to go up against Hambros Bank but it would be very foolish of us to go up against Gazprom," he added.
Regent owns between three and four percent of Hambros and has been arguing forcefully that the bank is better broken up.
Mellon said that while Hambros might enjoy prestige as one of Britain's last remaining independent merchant banks, it cannot compare with Gazprom which numbers Russia's current prime minister and energy minister among its former executives.
Regent's Gazprom fund hoped to attract fundholders keen to arbitrage the ADRs and the domestic share prices.
"I suppose the worry that Gazprom had was that people might sell the ADRs or alternatively not buy the next issue of ADRs and buy our fund instead, which was the same issue but at a much lower price," said Mellon.
"Or alternatively, if you were a hedge fund, you might go short the ADRs and long our fund and seek to exploit the gap."
So far, only 1.5 percent of the foreign allotment of nine percent of share capital have been issued, Mellon said.
However, Mellon argued that the fund was Gazprom's idea in the first place and based on an arbitrage long-practiced by Russian brokers.
Timing was probably the root cause of the difficulty.
"Only once we got the money did they come out against it," Mellon said. "One suspects its definitely in their interest longer-term to have the local share price higher versus the offshore price. In the immediate term it's not in their interest because they wanted to raise more ADRs."
Gazprom's domestic shares were trading at about US$0.645 on Monday against US$0.53 last week. The London-traded ADRs, equivalent to 10 underlying shares, at US$17.35 against more than US$20.00 last week.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Stiff competition and severe weather in the U.S. led to a 15 million pound ($24.2 million) fall in 1996 profits from British insurer General Accident Plc on Tuesday, despite a record final quarter.
The weather-related losses knocked 30 million pounds off operating profits which slipped to 421 million pounds over the year.
Echoing recent remarks from rival insurers, chief executive Bob Scott described the market as "increasingly competitive", although he was hopeful of a rise in motor premiums in the coming year.
General Accident intends to raise all motor rates, covering about 800,000 vehicles, by around 3.2 percent in April.
That increase will be reviewed in July and Scott said an eight percent rise for the year as a whole was the sort of increase needed given current market conditions.
The big question is whether such rises stick. Last year's four percent April increase resulted in an eventual rise of between two and three percent.
There were, however, no signs of rate increases in the homeowner or commercial sectors, said Scott.
Despite the fall in 1996 profits and even allowing for a 10 million pound boost from a change in the way the group accounts for overseas earnings, the results were at the top end of market expectations.
Year-end net assets per share, up a slightly less-than-expected three percent at 675 pence by year-end, have since risen to 734 pence.
A 10-1/2 percent increase in the dividend for the year to 34.25 pence per share was also ahead of forecast and by late afternoon the shares had added 11 pence to 848 pence.
Analysts welcomed a resilient underwriting performance, especially in the fourth quarter in Britain and the United States, and the level of profitability in new business in the group's life operations.
"There's some justification in adding some goodwill over the net asset value (NAV) into the share price for future profitable new business in life," commented one analyst.
The acquisition of Provident Mutual in January 1996 helped fuel a 37 percent increase in life and pension profits over the year to 108 million pounds.
Provident contributed 18 million pounds after reorganisation costs of 16 million pounds and Scott said the group was now looking to capitalise on the pension expertise which Provident had brought.
The key for the life company was the profitability of new business, said Scott, but he ruled out any major acquisitions in the drive to expand the business.
"At the present time there's nothing wrong with organic growth in life. We've proved we're capable of achieving that."
The group has set itself the goal of increasing the proportion of more stable life earnings to a level which covers dividends each year. In 1996 the proportion of dividend covered by net life earnings in 1996 was 44 percent.
Scott also dismissed speculation of a merger or takeover involving General Accident.
"We've got the benefits of scale in our major businesses. We don't have to do anything. We'd like to make further acquisitions in the U.S. Midwest but don't see any need to dramatically change our current shape," said Scott.
Investment income over the year was up seven percent but the rise in stock markets to record levels over 1996 has prompted the company to reduce exposure to British and North American equities over the past three quarters and shift money into bonds. ($ = 0.619 British Pounds)
European parliamentarians urged Hong Kong people on Tuesday to "speak up and not shut up" in the face of growing fears that China will roll back democratic freedoms when the territory reverts to China.
They also said they will recommend to the European Parliament to urge Britain to contest China's decision to replace the territory's elected legislature with an appointed interim chamber at the handover at midnight of June 30.
"Our message to Hong Kong is don't shut up, speak up," said Graham Watson, a member of the British Liberal Democratic Party, at a news conference during a two-day visit.
Citing a European maxim, Watson said, "What is required for evil to triumph is for good people to remain silent", adding that democracy was now the way of the world, while totalitarianism and dictatorship was evil.
Watson and three other members of the European Parliament (MEPs) met Hong Kong's future leader Tung Chee-hwa, prominent lawyers and members of Hong Kong's current elected legislature, and will meet colonial Governor Chris Patten.
Hong Kong, a British colony of over 150 years, reverts to China from July 1, and fears are mounting among its 6.4 million people that its democratic freedoms and rights, introduced by Britain in the final years of its rule, will be snuffed out.
Chief amongst Hong Kong's worries is a China-crafted provisional legislature which will replace the elected chamber, and Beijing's plan to amend or strike down a string of laws protecting civil liberties and democracy.
Tung, who replaces Patten on July 1, has backed the proposed changes, arguing that they were mere technicalities and necessary to preserve social order.
The MEPs, who criticised Britain for being too late in bringing democracy and civil rights to Hong Kong, also said London should contest the legality of the shadow legislature in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague.
"We believe the United Kingdom would have a good case...for going to the United Nations, even the Security Council and asking for the matter to be referred to the ICJ," Watson said.
"We believe that the abolition of the elected Legislative Council is an illegal act, and we believe it should be challenged in international law," he said.
London has said its hands are tied on the matter as China has refused to refer the issue to the world court. The MEPs however thought the matter should be pursued.
"There is nothing to stop the United Kingdom taking it to the United Nations...we would like to see the panoply of legal instruments in due process in law be used, even if in the end the process is frustrated," Watson said.
A dozen activists staged a noisy protest at the office of future leader Tung on Tuesday morning, demanding an apology for his support of China's plans.
The group, a coalition of 27 grassroot organisations which called itself the Hong Kong People's United Front for the Defence of Human Rights, chanted slogans and called on Tung to relate the views of Hong Kong people to Chinese leaders.
"We strongly request the future chief executive to apologise to all Hong Kong people and to honestly reflect their views to the Chinese government and to do his duty by defending human rights, freedom and the rule of law," the group said in a letter later given to Tung's office employees.
Florida Panthers Holdings Inc's cash flow losses are narrowing because of strong professional hockey revenues and a lift from newly acquired leisure properties, President Richard Evans said Tuesday .
"The games are sold out, and advertising and sponsorship revenue is better than expected," Evans told Reuters after a presentation to investors at a conference sponsored by Raymond James &amp; Associates Inc. "We also are benefitting for part of the year from the hotel and Incredible Ice properties."  
He predicted the company would have a cash flow loss, defined as earnings before taxes, interest, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), of about $3.1 million for the 12 months ending June 30.
The Fort Lauderdale-based company forecast last November, when it made a 7.0 million share initial offering, that EBIDTA losses would total about $15 million in the fiscal year through June.
Evans said EBITDA should turn positive and total $3.1 million or more in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1998.  
EBITDA should total $22.5 million in the following fiscal year, when the Panthers hockey team will have 12 months' occupancy of a new, $185-million arena being built in Broward County north of Miami.
The arena will seat 19,000 during hockey games, stimulate ticket, souvenir and food revenues, and draw from three South Florida counties with four million residents, Evans said.
The Panthers, which now play in the Miami Arena, will also get a bigger share of concession profits than under the current deal, he said.  
He declined to predict when Panthers Holdings would turn profitable.
Evans said he spent two-thirds of his time working on possible acquisitions, under the direction of majority shareholder and Chairman Wayne Huizenga, and that deals were likely this year. He said leisure properties, particularly involving golf, were of keen interest to Panther Holdings.
Since November, Panthers Holdings has bought two marina hotels in Fort Lauderdale, in stock deals, and paid $15.5 million for Incredible Ice, an ice rink offering a spectrum of entertainments. Evans said Incredible Ice sites were likely to be opened elsewhere in the United States.
"The market has given us an incredible currency, and we intend to use it," he said.
Panthers Holdings shares have nearly tripled from their $10 offering price in November.
Evans said all acquisitions would be accretive to cash flow and were very likely to be stock transactions
Huizenga said in a speech at the Raymond James conference Monday night that deals for the Panthers were likely.
((--Miami Newsroom 305-374-5013))
British insurer General Accident PLC reported a fall in annual profits on Tuesday, despite a record final quarter in 1996.
Operating profits slipped 15 million pounds to 421 million ($680 million) although a rise in weather-related losses of 30 million pounds more than accounted for the decline.
The recent strength of the pound was offset by a change to an average translation of overseas earnings instead of a year-end translation which added 10 million pounds to the operating line.
Despite the fall, profits were above market forecasts and a 10.5 percent increase in dividend for the year to 34.25 pence per share also beat expectations.
Net assets per share rose to 675 pence from 653 pence.
By late morning General Accident shares had added 8-1/2 pence to 845-1/2 pence.
General Accident chief executive Bob Scott described the market as increasingly competitive but added that the strategy of focusing on underwriting skills and building the life business was bearing fruit.
Scott said the group wanted to focus life operations in Britain and the goal was to increase the proportion of life earnings to a level that covered dividends each year.
The proportion of dividend covered by net life earnings in 1996 was 44 percent but Scott ruled out any major acquisitions in the drive to expand the business.
"At the present time there's nothing wrong with organic growth in life. We've proved we're capable of achieving that," said Scott.
Provident Mutual, acquired in January 1996, contributed 18 million pounds to the results, net of reorganisation costs of 16 million pounds and General Accident said it was now looking to capitalise on the pension expertise which Provident brought to the group.
The key for the life company was the profitability of new business and the group had done well in a year which included the integration of Provident, said Scott.
Scott dismissed speculation of a possible merger or takeover of General Accident.
"We've got the benefits of scale in our major businesses. We don't have to do anything," he said. "We'd like to make further acquisitions in the U.S. Midwest but don't see any need to dramatically change our current shape."
The rating environment continues to be mixed and General Accident echoed comments from Commercial Union and Guardian Royal Exchange that there were signs of firming motor rates.
"There are certainly signs that in personal motor rating increases are coming through. We're putting another rate increase through in commercial motor," said Scott.
There were, however no signs of rate increases in the homeowner or commercial sectors.
Like other insurers, General Accident results saw an increase in weather losses over the year and said that results from Australia were also disappointing. ($ = 0.619 British Pounds)
Thailand's efforts to boost market confidence by toughening up rules for its finance sector won mixed reviews from foreign investors on Tuesday.
Some welcomed Thailand's willingness to admit -- finally -- to asset quality problems in its finance sector, but others said Monday's announcement came far too late.
"This is fire-fighting," said one fund manager, who declined to be identified. "They should have put the fire extinguishers and the sprinklers in beforehand. And now they've doused the flames, but the damage has already been done."
On Monday, Thailand's central bank ordered 10 finance companies to raise capital immediately and raise provisioning levels to American standards of 115 percent of doubtful assets for banks and 120 percent for finance companies.
The moves followed months of speculation about asset quality that helped to shave half the value off the stock market while leaving the baht open to talk of a devaluation.
Fund Manager Templeton called for aggressive management of the problem.
"I think the central bank and the authorities need to take a very tough line and they need to be pretty active in the way in which they're going to manage this problem. Because this problem needs management," said sales director Stewart Aldcroft.
One fund manager said he was surprised the list of companies required to raise capital immediately was restricted to only 10 names. At least another 10 are in similar straits, he said.
Analysts said on Monday that only four or five banks would have to raise provisions to meet the new requirements, but most of the country's 90 finance companies cannot even meet existing requirements of 100-percent provisioning.
Thailand's willingness to confront the problem won praise from some investors, but most were unimpressed by the Bank of Thailand's tardy approach to a critical problem.
"We were frightened they would try to ignore the problem or gloss over it," said another fund manager. "Now they have realised there is a problem and they're doing something about it, which is positive. But it's early days yet."
One broker blamed changes in central bank leadership for the criticism. Previously, the Bank of Thailand was respected for its non-interventionist but pre-emptive management style.
"The bank seems to have gone astray in terms of its traditional role as a central bank," he said.
Another fund manager said corruption, a major complaint about the previous government, was starting to resurface.
"One of the biggest problems in Thailand is corruption," he said. "The way in which political favouritism occurred in the past has become apparent in the current government."
Thailand can now expect to begin a lengthy process of consolidation in its financial sector, with most of the activity focused on finance companies.
Most finance companies are heavily exposed to margin lending in investment banking and highly-leveraged in consumer or project finance, said James Wilson, senior associate director at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
"One issue that didn't crop up that should have, is most of the funding for finance companies is in the form of promissory notes," he said. "When the risk goes up, so does their coupon and the cost of funding."
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
B.A.T industries said on Wednesday it was interested in expanding its British life insurance activities through acquisition but had been put off bidding for mutual insurer Scottish Amicable by the price.
B.A.T. Chief Executive Martin Broughton made the comments as the group, which also has extensive tobacco interests, reported a three percent fall in trading profits at its financial services arm.
Those figures included a 160 million pound ($257.8 million) charge for U.S. environmental claims dating back to the 1960s.
"We've said in the past that the portfolio of brands in our British American Financial Services unit would benefit from filling out in the life broker business," said Broughton.
"Too many people were looking at Scottish Amicable, I think it would have turned out to be too high a price."
Scottish Amicable effectively put itself up for sale in February and is considering bids from Prudential Corp, Abbey National and Australian Mutual Provident.
Broughton's remarks mirrored comments made at the half-year stage that the group wanted to build its presence in the independent financial advice sector which accounts for around half of all British life insurance and pension business.
But B.A.T chairman Lord Cairns refused to comment on speculation that the group had approached Commercial Union as a possible partner.
He did say the company remained open-minded about its future structure, leaving the door open to a possible demerger.
B.A.T owns insurance groups Allied Dunbar and Eagle Star in Britain and Farmers in the U.S.
"We are not wedded to a particular structure... We have an open mind," said Cairns.
The unexpected provisioning in the 1996 figures came after a change in the way the group quantified possible environmental claims.
In the past these had been assessed on estimates based on claims experience.
Wednesday's provision followed a study by consultants Tillinghast-Towers Perrin which looked at individual sites in the U.S. to calculate B.A.T's possible exposure.
Given all the available information, the company said today's move would signal an end to such provisioning.
"They do now look fairly well reserved compared with the industry average," one analyst said.
In the United States, many companies have moved across to the more prudent way of reserving now used by B.A.T.
Echoing comments from competitors, Broughton said the general insurance trading environment remained difficult in 1996. The company had seen a slight pickup in motor rates but commercial lines remained very competitive, he said.
Excluding the environmental charge, general insurance profits were up three percent at 686 million pounds while life and investment businesses were up 16 percent at 495 million pounds.
Total premium income rose nine percent to 10 billion pounds.
Analysts said the results and comments on the state of the markets were broadly as expected.
Allied Dunbar trading profits rose 32 percent to 203 million pounds over the 12 months, though the comparison was flattered by a 1995 provision for costs associated with the Securities &amp; Investment Board pensions review.
Eagle Star profits fell 135 million pounds to 85 million pounds with competitive markets and the shedding of unprofitable businesses leading to a 12 percent fall in premium income.
Premium income in Eagle Star's life business was 18 percent higher at one billion pounds.
Profits at B.A.T's North American insurance business Farmers rose nine percent to 632 million pounds. Profits at the general insurance management business rose 12 percent to 476 million pounds and in the life business three percent to 156 million pounds. ($ = 0.620 British Pounds)
Asia will suffer only minor damage from an anticipated shake-out in Thailand's banking sector, analysts said on Wednesday.
"That's not a very healthy market and it's not a reflection on any of the others," said Carmen Welso, banking analyst with ING Barings in Hong Kong.
But some countries could take some precautionary steps to prevent the same thing happening within their borders, another analyst said.
The Thai government's public acknowledgement that its banks and finance companies are grappling with a huge liquidity problem caused by bad debts, many linked to a besieged property sector, prompted tough new provisioning rules on Monday.
The country's central bank, the Bank of Thailand, ordered banks and finance companies to raise provisions for sub-standard loans and asked 10 cash-strapped finance firms to boost capital.
Many analysts said on Wednesday they now expected to see a wave of consolidation sweep through Thailand's financial services sector.
For example, Thailand needed about five finance companies rather than the 90 that currently exist, one analyst said.
"People are going to look at Thailand and say 'we don't want that happening here'," said a banking analyst.
Indonesia and the Philippines could follow Malaysia's lead and restrict property lending rules to avoid Thailand's experience, he said.
"They'll try to control property bubbles, which is what Malaysia did a few years ago," he added.
Most analysts said it was too early to identify obvious candidates in Thailand for merger or takeover apart from the list of 10 finance firms ordered to raise capital immediately.
But foreign banks with stakes in some of the companies already affected by the shake-out would feel some immediate pain, she said.
One example was Development Bank of Singapore, which owns part of Thai Danu Bank.
Thai Danu announced a merger with Finance One Plc over the weekend. Finance One is Thailand's largest finance company.
Another analyst said that although it was too soon to identify obvious targets, some of Asia's biggest banks would soon start cherry-picking their way through the debris in Thailand, looking for possible takeover targets.
Citibank, HSBC Holdings Plc and ING Barings were considered likely buyers, although foreign restrictions could be a disincentive. Foreigners are restricted to holding only 25 percent of banks or finance companies, effectively preventing them from gaining control.
"I think they'll be under pressure to admit foreign banks to take control of bigger slices of Thai banks and especially Thai finance candidates," the analyst said.
But Thailand was in a relatively good position to confront these problems, with the economy forecast to grow about 6.5 percent this year, he said.
"Unlike Japan, they don't have economic contraction," he said. "My guess is if they shift their seat they can get out of it fairly quickly. They're not going to persist for four or five years like the banking problem in Japan."
-- Hong Kong bureau (852) 2843 6470
China on Wednesday gave Hong Kong a free hand to arrange media coverage of the colony's historic handover to Beijing, ending fears that the country's communist rulers might restrict press access.
Chinese and British negotiators working on details of Hong Kong's transfer of sovereignty announced the agreement after their latest round of talks.
"We very much look forward to as many as possible of the international press and the local press being interested in participating and recording and reporting on the handover ceremony," Hugh Davies, British team chief at the Joint Liaison Group (JLG), told reporters.
The JLG negotiates the fine details of the transfer of the territory of 6.4 million people to Chinese rule.
Many in Hong Kong, including human rights activists and pro-democracy politicians, had voiced fears that China would not consent to a media invasion without the right to vet which journalists attended.
In a joint statement both countries said arrangements for media coverage would be made by the Hong Kong government.
"The two sides have agreed to entrust the Hong Kong government to receive and process applications from journalists, as well as handle and arrange other matters relating to media coverage of the handover ceremony," the statement said.
Application forms for media accreditation will be distributed by the Hong Kong government's Handover Ceremony Coordination Office from March 15 and should be returned before April 7.
Hong Kong, a British colony for over 150 years, reverts to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30, and the government expects 6,000 foreign and local media representatives to cover the event.
Asked if the Hong Kong government would set any special conditions for accreditation, Davies said he did not envisage applicants being turned down.
"There will be no criteria applied ... provided you don't turn out to be a terrorist," he told reporters.
Composite insurer Royal &amp; Sun Alliance Group Plc on Thursday reported lower results in its first year since it merged and said it would seek shareholder approval to buy in up to five percent of its shares.
But large provisions for U.S. environmental claims and the impact of the pound's strength took the gloss off the figures reported by the group, formed in a six billion pound ($9.7 billion) merger last year.
Including the increased provisions and 32 million pounds for currency movements, operating profits fell to 706 million pounds from 915 million in 1995 for the combined group.
After an initial gain on the buyback news, the shares closed down 9-1/2 pence at 494 pence.
A lower-than-expected net asset value and a poor performance in the British motor insurance market compounded the market's disappointment.
The 167 million pounds in provisions, largely put aside for U.S. asbestos and environmental claims dating back to the 1960s and 1970s, follows a change in the way the group assesses possible liabilities.
On Wednesday, B.A.T Industries subsidiary Eagle Star set aside 160 million pounds in a similar move.
Both companies have said that they expect it to mark the end to such provisioning.
The dividend for the year was raised to 19 pence per share in line with last year's management forecasts.
The operating figures did not include 201 million pounds relating to consolidation costs, some 30 or 40 million more than analysts had expected.
But management declared themselves pleased with the results and said the group remained on target to achieve the annual cost savings of at least 175 million pounds identified at the time of the merger.
Chief executive Richard Gamble said the integration was progressing well, especially on the staffing front, and the group was continuing to hold on to business.
But he played down the possibility of an acquisition to strengthen its life operations or exposure to Continental Europe, emphasising that the current focus was on integration.
The group had decided to buy back shares in anticipation of continued strengthening of its capital position, said deputy chairman Roger Taylor, who hinted that it could be repeated in the future.
The company will need shareholders' permission at the annual meeting in May before it can carry out the buyback.
U.S. weather costs mirrored the experience of competitors who have all highlighted the impact on profits of some of the worst weather on record in North America last year.
U.S. weather losses at 96 million pounds were 36 million higher for the year. Together with the reserving for environmental claims, this turned a 134 million pound profit in 1995 into a 14 million pound loss.
Profits for the general insurance business as a whole after the changes in claims reserving were 480 million pounds, down from 754 million in 1995.
In Britain, a 28 percent fall in profits reflected an increase in the frequency and average cost of personal lines claims -- motor claims frequency was up eight percent and costs seven percent -- and continuing competition.
The figures also included an unexpected 50 million pound increase in reserves split between reinsurance of the U.S. environmental costs and domestic insurance indemnity.
On a brighter note, Royal &amp; Sun said it was confident motor rates had bottomed out and was scheduling increases for 1997.
Worldwide life profits increased by 15 percent to 213 million pounds and were up 13 percent to 150 million pounds in Britain.
The company said it was appointing Patrick Gillam, chairman of Standard Chartered bank, as non-executive chairman from May 9. ($ = 0.620 British Pounds)
Royal &amp; Sun Alliance Group plc , one of Britain's leading insurers, on Thursday unveiled its first set of annual results following last year's merger and said it would be seeking shareholders' permission to buy in up to five percent of its shares.
But large provisions for U.S. environmental claims and the impact of the pounds's recent strength took the gloss off the figures, the first since Britain's Royal Insurance and Sun Alliance were put together in a six billion pound ($9.7 billion) merger last year.
The 167 million pounds in provisions, largely put aside for U.S. asbestos and environmental claims, follows a change in the way the group assesses possible liabilities.
On Wednesday, B.A.T Industries subsidiary Eagle Star on Wednesday set aside 160 million pounds in provisions.
Both companies have said that they expect it to mark the end to such provisioning.
Including the currency and environmental charges operating profits for the year were 706 million pounds compared with 915 million pounds in 1995 for the combined group.
By late morning Royal &amp; Sun shares were trading eight pence lower at 495 pence despite an earlier jump to the day's high of 515 on initial reaction to the share buyback.
The operating figure did not include 201 million pounds related to the cost of consolidating operations, some 30 or 40 million pounds more than analysts had expected.
But management declared themselves pleased with the results and said the group remained on target to achieve the annual cost savings of 175 million pounds identified at the time of the merger.
Royal &amp; Sun chief executive Richard Gamble said the integration was progressing well, especially on the staffing front, and the group was continuing to retain business.
But he dismissed the possibility of an acquisition to strengthen its life business or exposure to Continental Europe.
"There's an awful lot going on in integrating the two companies and that is where our mind is focused. That's where we have to keep our concentration."
The dividend for the year was raised to 19 pence per share in line with management's forecast at the time the merger was announced last May. Net asset value per share was 399 pence at year-end and had increased to 417 pence by March 5.
"This was a very good operating result in a difficult year which was affected by exceptional weather in the U.S. and continuing soft markets," said Royal &amp; Sun deputy chairman Roger Taylor.
The group had decided to buy back shares in anticipation of continued strengthening of the group's capital position, added Taylor.
The weather related costs mirrored the experience of competitors who have all highlighted the impact on profits of some of the worst weather on record in North America last year.
Profits for the general insurance business after the changes in claims reserving were 480 million pounds, down from 754 million pounds in 1995. Improvements in Canada and Scandinavia were offset by reduced profits elsewhere.
U.S. weather losses at 96 million pounds were 36 million pounds higher than in 1995. Together with the reserving for environmental claims this turned a 134 million pound profit in the U.S. in 1995 into a 14 million pound loss and more than offset an improvement in the core book of business, the company said.
In Britain, a 28 percent fall in profits reflected an increase in the frequency and average cost of personal lines claims, changes in claims reserving and continuing competition.
Life profits increased by 15 percent to 213 million pounds with increases in both British and overseas operations.
($ = 0.620 British Pounds)
The head of the Securities and Investments Board (SIB), Britain's top financial regulator, on Friday criticised slow progress made in compensating victims of pensions mis-selling in Britain, and called on all parties to ensure a speedy conclusion to the situation.
SIB chairman, Sir Andrew Large, said that progress had hitherto been "unacceptably slow" but welcomed signs of increased commitments to a rapid resolution emerging from meetings with major firms.
Large's comments followed a statement from British Treasury minister Angela Knight on Thursday urging the pensions industry to speed up payment to individuals hit by pension mis-selling in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
She said that she was looking for "rapid and decisive results from the pensions industry. Targets will be set to ensure that people are put right".
Large said he was determined to secure redress for those missold personal pensions and welcomed any contribution which helped secure that aim.
"All parties have a responsibility for bringing this review to a speedy conclusion - the industry, the occupational pension schemes, the regulators and the government."
Large is due to stand down as chairman of the SIB in May.
Knight's comments came just two days after the ruling Conservative Party, facing a General Election expected to be held on May 1, announced plans to overhaul the pension system in Britain.
As many as 1-1/2 million people in Britain may have been affected by being wrongly advised to take out personal pensions when they would have been better off remaining in occupational pension schemes.
An industry review was launched in 1994 but only a small proportion of those affected have so far been compensated.
Latest figures on the review published two weeks ago revealed that of nearly 500,000 "priority cases" just over 10,000 people had been offered compensation.
The SIB announced a simplified pensions review process last November in order to break the log-jam on the issue, but the results of this will not start feeding through until later this year.
The Personal Investment Authority, which regulates the sale of investment products to the public, has been holding discussions with major pensions providers to clear the backlog.
About 40 of the largest life companies account for around 90 percent of personal pension business. The discussions are likely to be concluded in the next three weeks.
World bankers and economic chiefs held Hong Kong up as a financial showcase with a rosy future on Friday, but a clash of views between Britain and China over democracy augured a politically bumpy ride.
Speaker after speaker at a one-day International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting stressed the importance of the economic policies that allowed Hong Kong to transform itself from an isolated island in the South China Sea into a teeming metropolis dedicated to wealth, prosperity and commerce.
"The policy framework in Hong Kong now and after the transition of sovereignty could hardly be better," IMF managing director Michel Camdessus said in his closing remarks.
And instead of a list of recommendations wrapping up the day's discussion of the difficulties hampering Asia's economic emergence, the day ended with a challenge from Hong Kong Monetary Authority chief Joseph Yam to return after the British-ruled territory returns to China on July 1.
Yam asked delegates to attend the World Bank/IMF annual meeting in September to see for themselves that the "one country, two systems" policy guiding Hong Kong's transition to China was actually working.
"You will be able to see for yourselves that the dynamism of Hong Kong has not and will not change," Yam said, adding that the IMF's decision to hold its 1997 annual meeting in Hong Kong was "a resounding vote of confidence" in its future.
The IMF meeting will be the first major gathering of world leaders in Hong Kong following China's takeover.
More than 50,000 delegates are expected at a venue still under construction. Encased in bamboo scaffolding, Hong Kong's new convention centre only recently gained a partial roof, testament to the territory's speedy construction methods.
The meeting is expected to provide China with a showcase for the handover, which was evident in less obvious ways at Friday's IMF gathering, too.
Departing colonial governor Chris Patten started the day with a sideswipe at Beijing, telling delegates that Hong Kong's economic success was due largely to its increasingly democratic government.
"The government has responded (positively) to that process and to the changes in aspirations which have accompanied it, by welcoming ever wider public participation in the process of government," Patten said.
Tung Chee-hwa, the territory's incoming chief executive, ended the day with a reminder of traditional Chinese values of cooperation.
"Within our community of Asian countries we must forge cooperation through dialogue and understanding," he said in closing remarks.
To help foster this mood of cooperation, Tung pledged to visit his Asian neighbours soon.
"As soon as possible, I hope to be able to visit our neighbours in Asia to extend my hand of friendship and cooperation."
Yam cemented the day's upbeat handover theme with a reminder that, in economic terms, the "one country, two systems" policy was little more than maintenance of the status quo.
"Under these arrangements there will be one country, two currencies, two monetary systems and two monetary authorities which are to be mutually independent," he said.
"These arrangements are admittedly new but definitely not as novel and complex as EMU (European Monetary Union) with one currency for many countries," he added.
But as a reminder that things are changing irrevocably after 150 years of British rule, many of Hong Kong's colonial administrators were on their way home after seeing their careers cut short by "localisation".
Many expatriates were sailing on two of the world's greatest cruise liners, the QE2 and the Oriana, a dramatic reminder that an era is ending and that Hong Kong itself will soon be sailing in uncharted waters.
Thailand's banking sector crisis brought repeated calls for an upgrade of Asia's immature financial infrastructure at an International Monetary Fund-Hong Kong Monetary Authority meeting on Friday.
"Asia needs a stronger, more dynamic financial infrastructure," IMF managing director Michel Camdessus told the conference on financial integration in Asia.
The region's banking system has not kept pace with its economic development, and the speedy pace of economic reform has created an urgent need for an overhaul, delegates said.
"In many countries, in Asia and elsewhere, prudential regulation and supervision have not kept pace with the new complexities of the banking business," Camdessus said.
"If left unaddressed, this gap could pose dangers for domestic and external stability. Indeed, all countries must be vigilant about the strength of their banking systems, so that the monetary authorities can tighten policy when needed, without fear of aggravating banking sector problems."
Asset quality problems forced Thailand to intervene earlier this week to demand better provisioning by its banks. Thailand was hampered in dealing with the situation by its monetary policy. Its currency, the baht, is pegged to a basket of currencies dominated by the dollar, but was under pressure from speculators who were encouraged by Thailand's poor economic picture and weak financial sector.
Lower rates would have eased liquidity -- but would also have lowered the cost of borrowing for currency speculators.
Higher interest rates to ward off the speculators would have increased the cost of borrowing for the cash-strapped banks.
While most speakers stopped short of calling for regional banking regulation and supervision to prevent the same situation occurring elsewhere -- an idea mooted by Australia recently -- some experts recommended frequent and regular gatherings of central bankers and finance ministers.
"Most countries need to take steps to strengthen the official supervisory oversight of financial institutions and markets," said Gerald Corrigan, managing director at Goldman Sachs and a former president of the New York and member of the Federal Open Market Committee.
Key to the debate are capital inflows, which have widened current account deficits across Asia with serious implications for external balances and interest rates.
Corrigan warned that while many Asian nations with wide current account deficits have taken comfort from large foreign exchange reserves, the capital inflows responsible for much of their foreign exchange can evaporate overnight.
"Deregulation has also led to a greater exposure of credit and foreign exchange risk, and increased the danger of banks being inadequately capitalised with consequent incentives to offer above-market interest rates and engage in less prudent lending," said Mahmood Pradhan, a senior economist with the IMF.
The situation is becoming more urgent as more and more nations in the region seek financing for the sort of huge infrastructure projects on which their future depends, he said.
"The challenge is for many of these countries to address their infrastructure needs, including environmental requirements, without putting undue strains on public finances or on external positions," Pradhan said.
Although many Asian nations have successfully raised capital through privatisations, the amount of capital raised through privatisation in Asia was relatively small compared with Latin America, he said.
Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten told a meeting of central bankers on Friday that the territory's economic prosperity was due to its increasingly democratic government.
In remarks aimed as much at official audiences over the border in China as at the central bankers attending the financial conference he was addressing, Patten said Hong Kong people had developed the institutions and values of a civil society.
"The government has responded (positively) to that process and to the changes in aspirations which have accompanied it, by welcoming ever wider public participation in the process of government," he told the conference, organised by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
He drew attention to China's commitment, in the Sino-British accords covering the British colony's return to China this July 1, to allow the development of democracy in the territory.
Hong Kong, a territory of 6.4 million people on the south China coast, reverts to China after more than 150 years as a British colonial possession, under a 1984 Sino-British treaty.
The treaty, the Joint Declaration, guarantees the territory will have a high degree of autonomy and keep its freewheeling capitalism for a further 50 years after the handover.
The territory is one of the world's economic marvels. It is the eighth largest trading economy and sits on one of the world's biggest pots of foreign reserves -- US$66 billion.
However, China has launched moves over the past year to scrap Hong Kong's elected legislature, reverse Patten's reforms that widened the democratic franchise and roll back laws on civil liberties, when Beijing resumes sovereignty.
Beijing's moves have stirred outrage among the territory's pro-democracy groups and opposition from Britain and the United States, undermining a smooth transition.
"Democracy, as promised and pledged in the Joint Declaration and in the Basic Law, has taken root and started to flourish here. This has strongly underpinned Hong Kong's economic prosperity and Hong Kong's social stability," Patten said.
He said Hong Kong's stability in the next century would need what he called "responsive government". Economic and social change would put huge strains on society, Patten said.
"Those pressures demand sophisticated and responsive institutions of public administration to channel them productively into communal progress rather than letting them build up to the detriment of political and economic stability.
"Hong Kong has responded creatively to the pressures that it's faced, preparing itself for all the challenges which, like all the developing economies of Asia, it will face in the coming century. That's not a process which should or could be stopped."
Thailand's banking sector crisis brought repeated calls for an upgrade of Asia's immature financial infrastructure at an International Monetary Fund-Hong Kong Monetary Authority meeting on Friday.
"Asia needs a stronger, more dynamic financial infrastructure," IMF managing director Michel Camdessus told the conference on financial integration in Asia.
The region's banking system has not kept pace with its economic development, and the speedy pace of economic reform has created an urgent need for an overhaul, delegates said.
"In many countries, in Asia and elsewhere, prudential regulation and supervision have not kept pace with the new complexities of the banking business," Camdessus said.
"If left unaddressed, this gap could pose dangers for domestic and external stability. Indeed, all countries must be vigilant about the strength of their banking systems, so that the monetary authorities can tighten policy when needed, without fear of aggravating banking sector problems."
Asset quality problems forced Thailand to intervene earlier this week to demand better provisioning by its banks.
Thailand was hampered in dealing with the situation by its monetary policy. Its currency, the baht, is pegged to a basket of currencies dominated by the dollar, but was under pressure from speculators who were encouraged by Thailand's poor economic picture and weak financial sector.
Lower rates would have eased liquidity -- but would also have lowered the cost of borrowing for currency speculators.
Higher interest rates to ward off the speculators would have increased the cost of borrowing for the cash-strapped banks.
While most speakers stopped short of calling for regional banking regulation and supervision to prevent the same situation occurring elsewhere -- an idea mooted by Australia recently -- some experts recommended frequent and regular gatherings of central bankers and finance ministers.
"Most countries need to take steps to strengthen the official supervisory oversight of financial institutions and markets," said Gerald Corrigan, managing director at Goldman Sachs and a former president of the New York and member of the Federal Open Market Committee.
Key to the debate are capital inflows, which have widened current account deficits across Asia with serious implications for external balances and interest rates.
Corrigan warned that while many Asian nations with wide current account deficits have taken comfort from large foreign exchange reserves, the capital inflows responsible for much of their foreign exchange can evaporate overnight.
"Deregulation has also led to a greater exposure of credit and foreign exchange risk, and increased the danger of banks being inadequately capitalised with consequent incentives to offer above-market interest rates and engage in less prudent lending," said Mahmood Pradhan, a senior economist with the IMF.
The situation is becoming more urgent as more and more nations in the region seek financing for the sort of huge infrastructure projects on which their future depends, he said.
"The challenge is for many of these countries to address their infrastructure needs, including environmental requirements, without putting undue strains on public finances or on external positions," Pradhan said.
Although many Asian nations have successfully raised capital through privatisations, the amount of capital raised through privatisation in Asia was relatively small compared with Latin America, he said.
Foreign investors seeking access to China could consider the road industry, which needs more than US$6 billion in foreign money to complete four national highways by 2000, SBC Warburg said.
Low rates of investment are considered largely responsible for clogged highways in China, where 1,500 counties and 190,000 villages had no road access at the end of 1994.
Road building has not kept pace with the growth in civilian vehicles, which has risen a compound 13.4 percent each year between 1978 and 1995 -- roughly in line with the country's rapid economic expansion.
By comparison, the total length of highways over the same period has increased only by an average 1.6 percent a year.
"The main reason behind this slow development in China's highway network is the insufficient investment in the sector," SBC Warburg said recently.
Investment is a pressing problem with China's ambitious plan to build a network of 12 national trunk routes totalling 30,000 km by the 2010, with the first four highways to be completed by 2000.
Total construction cost is estimated at 540 billion yuan ($65 billion) over 10 years, most of which will come from domestic funding, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
"However, it is estimated that as much as $6 billion will have to come from foreign investors," SBC Warburg said.
Foreign investors first started entering China's road industry during the Eighth Five Year Plan, and the resulting investment helped to accelerate the expansion of highways 12.6 percent to 1.15 million km between 1991 and 1995.
Among the better-known foreign-invested higways are Hopewell Holding's Guangzhou-Shenzhen Superhighway; New World Infrastructure's Guangzhou Northern Ring Road, which opened in 1994; Road King Infrastructure, which signed its first toll road joint venture in December 1993; Cheung Kong Infrastructure and CITIC Pacific.
Guangdong Investment and Guangzhou Investment are also active players.
Most projects are toll roads, which SBC Warburg warned can be difficult to set up and operate in China. Central and provincial approvals are required and collection can be fraught with "natural" hazards such as traffic accidents and robberies.
"It does not seem to us, however, that such irregularities are damaging the investment merits of Chinese toll roads, if the investor can work closely with the local authorities on containing the leakage at some pre-determined levels," the broker said.
There are clear signs that China is actively encouraging foreign investment in this sector.
Expressways, tunnels and bridges are open to 100 percent foreign ownership and there is no limit in foreign participation in Chinese joint ventures on first and second-class highways.
Experiments with various types of funding sources and investment structures are being encouraged.
And, as part of the central government's efforts to promote a more standardised build-operate-transfer structure for infrastructure projects, it is preparing to offer a bridge in Wuhan for international tender.
"We expect the market to be increasingly open to foreign participation, as additional funding sources help attract more investors and reduce financing costs," SBC Warburg concluded.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Hong Kong's embarrassment of riches will take centre stage on Wednesday when Financial Secretary Donald Tsang finally reveals the exact size of the territory's surplus and reserves.
The magnitude of wealth lining the coffers of Hong Kong is one of the budget's last and most sensitive secrets following a series of official leaks during the past two weeks.
Speculation about the size of the surplus has also led to controversy about how Hong Kong chooses to spend its wealth in this year of great change.
Hong Kong ends life as a British colony on July 1, returning to China as a Special Administrative Region.
Despite an attempt by the government to inhibit budget controversy it seems certain that debate will erupt on Wednesday when the full size of Hong Kong's cash pile is revealed.
China already has been accused of applying the brakes to welfare spending, a key element of colonial governor Chris Patten's thorny relationship with Beijing.
Tsang on Friday denied any Beijing budget pressure.
"In formulating our expenditure programme we had not been overly influenced, we have not been affected, by whatever they called political pressure," he told a group of central bankers.
With a budget surplus projected by many experts at HK$20 billion (US$2.56 billion), Hong Kong can certainly afford to better meet the needs of its disadvantaged, said the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest and most vociferous political group.
"It appears social security growth will be insufficient for our elderly and disabled," Huang Chen-ya of the Democratic Party told Reuters.
Spending estimates, already revealed, disclosed only a 9.1 percent increase in welfare spending in the coming fiscal year compared to a 20.1-percent rise in 1996/97.
But others say a tax cut is more appropriate, and might even become inevitable as the government struggles to comply with demands for fiscal balance contained in the Basic Law, the mini-constitution that will govern Hong Kong after July 1.
Still others argue that Hong Kong requires a hefty war chest of reserves in the year it reverts to Chinese control.
"The point is, now, whether the present level of fiscal reserves is adequate or not to secure Hong Kong from attack, from speculators, or from any shock to the system," said George Leung, economic adviser to Hongkong Bank.
"I cannot say whether that is enough, but I think more is better. Right now, it's 1997 and we still need money to secure the Hong Kong situation. It is a little more sensitive now."
Leung warned that either a tax cut or aggressive social spending in Hong Kong, with its nascent inflationary pressure, would be more destabilising than no action at all.
But there is no doubt that Hong Kong confronts the handover in robust economic shape.
In one of a carefully orchestrated series of leaks following 12 months of budget talks with China, Tsang recently told an influential group of institutional fund managers that economic growth will rise a sturdy 5.5 percent in the coming year, while trade and consumption continue to improve.
Inflation will remain capped at seven percent, and land premiums are expected to rise to a record HK$60 billion (US$7.69 billion) -- the primary cause of the government's sudden increase in its budget surplus and fiscal reserves.
Given this wealth, some question China's readiness to adopt the hands-off approach to future budgets under the Basic Law.
China was allowed to participate in the transition budget, but now must allow Hong Kong to run its own financial affairs for 50 years -- a doubtful prospect, according to Huang.
"This budget certainly has already the fingerprints of intervention," he said. "Certainly, I think the central government can, when it pleases, participate, to put it mildly, in future budgets by giving advice, invited or otherwise."
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Hong Kong's hefty cash reserves offer a comfortable cushion for children born in 1997, the year the British colony returns to Chinese sovereignty.
According to Wednesday's 1997/98 budget figures, thrifty Hong Kong will confront its future as part of China with HK$330 billion (US$42 billion) in total fiscal reserves.
That works out to more than US$6,500 for each man, woman and child in the territory.
By comparison, gross national debt in the United States of US$5.5 trillion translates into a debt of US$20,500 for every child born there this year.
But Financial Secretary Donald Tsang resisted the temptation to hand down a give-away budget.
Instead of widely-anticipated tax cuts, Tsang's budget speech for 1997/98 (April-March) stressed the need for continuity in 1997, and Hong Kong's ability to work with China to strike a balance.
"Fortunately, our healthy public finances and robust economic prospects have made the task of finding the right balance somewhat easier," Tsang said.
But critics were not satisfied by the government's failure to spend more on the needy, particularly the elderly, while reporting a budget surplus of HK$15.1 billion this year rising to HK$31.7 billion in 1997/98. "I think the size of the surplus is utterly obscene and I'm very, very mad just on that," said Emily Lau, an independent Democrat and outspoken critic of the government's social policy.
"We are probably the richest place on earth and to think we have several hundred thousand poeple living from hand to mouth.
"I've got nothing against the tax reduction on wine, that's fine. But I think we should also do something for the elderly."
Tsang cut duties on wine to 60 percent from 90 percent.
Experts warned that the gap between rich and poor in Hong Kong is bound to widen as impoverished Chinese immigrants flock to Hong Kong seeking streets paved with gold.
In 1995, Hong Kong increased the quota for mainland immigrants to 150 a day from 105, mainly for family reunions.
"Twenty years ago, Hong Kong could absorb impoverished migrants from the mainland in large numbers because it had an immense need for cheap labour," said David Dodwell, a director at Jardine Fleming Holdings.
"Today, that is no longer the case. Now our capacity to absorb those in the economy today is much less than it used to be. We don't have the unskilled jobs," he said.
Hong Kong's rapid transformation from international manufacturing and industrial hub into a services economy geared to China's economic expansion has caused the relocation of virtually its entire manufacturing base into southern China.
Tsang's highly conservative budget indicated growing awareness of the potential ramifications of mainland immigration, with a 150-percent boost to spending on benefits for newly-arrived mainland children.
"As for the children, we help them fit into our schools with special support services and remedial English programmes," he said. "In 1997/98 we will spend a total of around HK$168 million on these children -- an increase of over 150 percent in real terms of 1996/97."
($ = 7.74 HK dollars)
British insurer Legal &amp; General (L&amp;G) on Thursday reported a double digit rise in profits for 1996 and gave an upbeat assessment of the outlook for the group.
But the company ruled out acquisitions in the life and pensions business and said that despite stiff competition, rising sales and profits would continue to underpin strong dividend growth in the future.
"Our strategy is not dependent on mergers and acquisitions. We don't want our efforts diverted by someone else's problems," said L&amp;G chief executive David Prosser.
The in-line results and prospects for dividend growth helped L&amp;G shares to a new all-time high of 423 pence. By late morning the shares were trading at 415-1/2 pence, a rise of 9-1/2 pence on the day.
Analysts said there were few surprises in the figures, though the dividend was slightly ahead of forecast.
The trebling of the value of new business, was singled out as particularly positive.
"There were exceptional factors in there but nevertheless they've done a tremendous job in taking the new business value up from 20 million ($31.9 million) to 60 million pounds. That was the most striking piece of good news," commented one analyst.
Despite a "very competitive" trading environment, which he said was likely to continue, Prosser expressed satisfaction at the year's performance.
Sales growth continued to be based on competitive pricing and product innovation but reductions in profitability produced by cutting prices were being offset by increases in business volume, he said.
"There's a lot of market share about if you do this business sensibly and we do appear to be in a virtuous circle. We're winning additional sales growth, getting lower unit costs as a result, good growth in embedded value of new business and a good increase in shareholder value," he told Reuters.
More competitive products, supported by lower administartion costs, cost effective sales distribution and good investment returns, result in higher sales, greater customer loyalty and increased profit, said Prosser.
Despite a 54 percent jump in new business in 1996, L&amp;G still had less than five percent market share and the focus going foward would continue to be on growing volume, said Prosser.
But the sharp increases in British bulk annuity business in 1996 which saw single new premium business rise to more than four times 1995 levels, is unlikely to be replicated in 1997.
Operating profits for the twelve months were up over 15 percent to 291.4 million pounds and the dividend was raised 14 percent to 11.13 pence per share.
Profits from life and pensions businesses rose nearly 14 percent to 250 million pounds while general insurance profits rose to 29.9 million pounds from 23.4 million pounds the previous year.
The sale of the company's commercial lines business resulted in a pre-tax exceptional profit of 70 million pounds.
The investment maangement arm had a good year in winning new business and with 48.1 billion pounds under management, a 20 percent increase on the year, the group is now one of Britain's largest fund managers.
Like rival insurers the group had seen some firming in motor rates but this was slow and very selective.
"Household is more dificult. I think some people are seeing rate reductions and some are getting rate increases. Household is becoming more selective on underwriting and pricing of risk -- the shape of pricing is changing," said Prosser.
($ = 0.626 British Pounds)
Three companies are expected to be left in the running for control of mutually-owned life insurance company Scottish Amicable at the deadline for final offers on Friday evening.
Insurance groups Prudential Corp and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP) and high street bank Abbey National have all been working on offers to be weighed up by the ScotAm board and its advisers SBC Warburg.
A source close to Warburgs said a bidder from outside the three front-runers was not anticipated.
The sifting of the offers is likely to take place behind closed doors with not one of the likely bidders opting to make public details of its proposals.
In an effort to deflect criticism of the sealed-bid process ScotAm had agreed to publish details of offers, if required by a bidder.
For the moment, none have asked it to do so.
"We're not at this stage asking for our bid to be revealed. I think everybody's waiting to see whether anyone wants to have a shootout now - it's a bit of a stand off... it's very much a case of playing by ScotAm's rules," said a source close to one of the bidders.
Those rules include confidentiality agreements and an undertaking to accept the board's decision, expected by the end of the month, as final.
ScotAm, based in Stirling in central Scotland, has arranged for an independent tribunal to resolve any dispute arising from the the takeover battle.
The board has repeatedly stressed that the interests of its 1.1 million policyholders will be uppermost in its final decision.
Those interests are not limited to headline figures and upfront payouts but extend to the bidders long-term investment plans.
One of Warburg's main difficulties will be comparing what are likely to be very differently structured proposals, and independent actuaries and the Department of Trade &amp; Industry will be consulted before a decision is made.
Job security for ScotAm's 2,200 employees is also likely to play its part and all three bidders have been quick to calm fears of job cuts at ScotAm.
AMP has said it would consider moving its Bristol-based London Life buisness to Scotland if it won while both Abbey and the Pru have said job preservation in Stirling would be a priority.
AMP, Abbey and the Pru are all that are left of half a dozen companies, including National Westminster Bank and Lloyds TSB who last month signed confidentiality agreements with ScotAm to evaluate the company as a takeover prospect.
The final price -- widely expected to top two billion pounds ($3.2 billion) -- is said to have deterred many from taking their interest further and Lloyds admitted recently that after running the slide rule over ScotAm, it felt the bid premium looked too high.
Both the Pru and Abbey have already said that their original proposals might be increased once they had access to more detailed financial detail on ScotAm.
Abbey's original bid was worth up to 1.4 billion pounds while the Pru's 1.9 billion pound offer included a loan element to bolster ScotAm's life fund.
Those bids came barely two weeks after ScotAm had published its own proposals to shed its mutual status and float itself on the stock market.
AMP has not yet given any indication of what it might be prepared to pay for ScotAm, but is financially strong has said it was keen to make acquisitions in both the British and U.S. market.
($ = 0.627 British Pounds)
Hong Kong's future leader Tung Chee-hwa met a political opponent on Monday he has accused of badmouthing Hong Kong abroad in the run-up to Chinese rule, holding talks that appeared to strike a conciliatory note.
However, Tung and Democratic Party leader Martin Lee, a fierce critic of China, remained poles apart on key issues at the heart of the democratic camp's worries about Hong Kong's return to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30.
In a meeting he described as "cooperative" and "good", the second since the shipping magnate was selected in December as Hong Kong's future leader, Lee said his party allowed Tung to clarify his position if he believed he had been misinterpreted.
"If he thinks we have misunderstood him, he can tell us, so we can clear any misunderstanding," Lee told reporters.
Lee said he gave Tung a "position paper" highlighting issues Lee would be discussing with political and business leaders in an upcoming trip to the United States, Canada and Europe.
The paper stated what the Democrats saw as Tung's stance on key issues about Hong Kong's handover, giving the future leader a chance to clear up any misunderstandings over his position.
Lee, who has made many trips overseas to lobby against the provisional legislature and China's plans to roll back on rights and civil liberties at the handover, has been attacked by Tung in recent weeks for criticising Hong Kong abroad.
But the long-time champion of democracy in the territory, who will receive the National Endowment for Democracy's 1997 Democracy Award on Washington's Capitol Hill on April 9, said he would continue to go on his overseas lobbying trips.
He also dismissed suggestions from the media that the party would censor itself in the future.
"No, we will still speak (overseas), but if Mr Tung says he has been misunderstood, we will consider his views, we will definitely not be censoring ourselves," Lee said.
The party also stood firm against the provisional legislature.
"I told Mr Tung so long as this provisional legislature were to have its first, second, third readings on any bill before July 1, we will have no option but take it to court," he said.
With the handover just 106 days away, Hong Kong is awash with concerns over the impending end of its elected legislature and Beijing's plans to repeal or amend a string of laws protecting human rights and civil liberties.
Scottish Amicable on Monday confirmed that three companies had submitted final offers for the mutually-owned insurance group by last Friday's bid deadline.
High street bank Abbey National plc and insurers Prudential Corp plc and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP) must now wait until the end of the month to find out who has won the fight for control of the hotly-pursued ScotAm.
None of the bidders have taken up the option of making their offers public, allowing the company's board and its advisers SBC Warburg to weigh up the competing bids behind closed doors.
In an effort to deflect criticism of the sealed-bid process ScotAm had agreed to publish details of offers, if asked to do so by a bidder.
But for the moment all three seem content to abide by Scotam's preference for confidentiality. They have also committed themselves to accepting its decision at the end of March as final.
The board's endoresement will go a long way in ultimately securing ownership of the group but does not guarantee it.
The plans must be approved by three-quarters of those policyholders voting on the board's recommendation (corrects from "Two-thirds of the 1.1 million policyholders who own the company must approve the choice") and after widespread criticism of management's handling of both its own plans to float ScotAm and the auction process, its recommendation is likely to come under close scrutiny.
ScotAm, based in Stirling in central Scotland, has arranged for an independent tribunal to resolve any dispute arising from the the takeover battle and has repeatedly stressed that the interests of its policyholders will be uppermost in its decision.
Those interests are likely to be focussed upon bidders' long-term investment plans rather than upfront payouts and one of Warburg's main difficulties will be comparing very differently structured proposals.
Independent actuaries and the Department of Trade &amp; Industry are to be consulted before the final decision is made.
Job security for ScotAm's 2,200 employees is also likely to play a major part and all three bidders have been quick to calm fears of job cuts.
AMP has said it would consider moving its Bristol-based London Life business to Scotland if it won while both Abbey and the Pru have said job preservation in Stirling would be a priority.
AMP, Abbey and the Pru are all that are left of half a dozen companies, including National Westminster Bank and Lloyds TSB who last month signed confidentiality agreements with ScotAm to evaluate the company as a takeover prospect.
The price tag -- widely expected to top 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion) -- has been cited by many companies as the reason for withdrawing from the race with acquisition goodwill likely to top one billion pounds.
AMP has made no effort to disguise its desire to expand in both the British and U.S. market and has said it would shift its attention to another target if it were to miss out on ScotAm.
Both the Pru and Abbey have already said that their original proposals might be increased once they had access to more detailed financial detail on ScotAm.
Abbey's original bid was worth up to 1.4 billion pounds while the Pru's 1.9 billion pound offer included a loan element to bolster ScotAm's life fund.
Those bids came barely two weeks after ScotAm had published its own proposals to shed its mutual status and float itself on the stock market.
($ = 0.624 British Pounds)
Scottish Amicable on Monday confirmed that three companies had submitted final offers for the mutually-owned insurance group by last Friday's bid deadline.
High street bank Abbey National plc and insurers Prudential Corp plc and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP) must now wait until the end of the month to find out who has won the fight for control of the hotly-pursued ScotAm.
None of the bidders have taken up the option of making their offers public, allowing the company's board and its advisers SBC Warburg to weigh up the competing bids behind closed doors.
In an effort to deflect criticism of the sealed-bid process ScotAm had agreed to publish details of offers, if asked to do so by a bidder.
But for the moment all three seem content to abide by Scotam's preference for confidentiality. They have also committed themselves to accepting its decision at the end of March as final.
The board's endoresement will go a long way in ultimately securing ownership of the group but does not guarantee it.
Two-thirds of the 1.1 million policyholders who own the company must approve the choice and after widespread criticism of management's handling of both its own plans to float ScotAm and the auction process, its recommendation is likely to come under close scrutiny.
ScotAm, based in Stirling in central Scotland, has arranged for an independent tribunal to resolve any dispute arising from the takeover battle and has repeatedly stressed that the interests of its policyholders will be uppermost in its decision.
Those interests are likely to be focused upon bidders' long-term investment plans rather than upfront payouts and one of Warburg's main difficulties will be comparing very differently structured proposals.
Independent actuaries and the Department of Trade &amp; Industry are to be consulted before the final decision is made.
Job security for ScotAm's 2,200 employees is also likely to play a major part and all three bidders have been quick to calm fears of job cuts.
AMP has said it would consider moving its Bristol-based London Life business to Scotland if it won while both Abbey and the Pru have said job preservation in Stirling would be a priority.
AMP, Abbey and the Pru are all that are left of half a dozen companies, including National Westminster Bank and Lloyds TSB who last month signed confidentiality agreements with ScotAm to evaluate the company as a takeover prospect.
The price tag -- widely expected to top two billion pounds ($3.2 billion) -- has been cited by many companies as the reason for withdrawing from the race with acquisition goodwill likely to top one billion pounds.
AMP has made no effort to disguise its desire to expand in both the British and U.S. market and has said it would shift its attention to another target if it were to miss out on ScotAm.
Both the Pru and Abbey have already said that their original proposals might be increased once they had access to more detailed financial detail on ScotAm.
Abbey's original bid was worth up to 1.4 billion pounds while the Pru's 1.9 billion pound offer included a loan element to bolster ScotAm's life fund.
Those bids came barely two weeks after ScotAm had published its own proposals to shed its mutual status and float itself on the stock market.
($ = 0.624 British Pounds)
Britannic Assurance on Tuesday promised to speed-up the settlement of cases of pension mis-selling as the insurance group reported a near 50 percent jump in its profits for 1996.
The company admitted it had between 12,000 and 13,000 cases classified as priority cases but said that the resources already committed to the issue would help accelerate the resolution of those outstanding.
"Our objective is to complete a substantial proportion of priority cases this year... But that depends not only on our own resources but on the ability of occupational schemes to answer our queries," said Britannic chief executive Brian Shaw.
The industry was now in a much better position to clear up the backlog, he said, thanks to the work done over the past couple of years.
Pension providers have come under increasing criticism for the delays in compensating victims of pensions mis-selling in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
As many as 1-1/2 million people may have been wrongly advised by the financial services industry to take out personal pensions instead of staying in occupational schemes.
A review was launched in 1994 but only a tiny proportion of those affected have so far received compensation.
The Personal Investment Authority (PIA), which regulates the sale of investment products to the public, came under heavy fire last week for its handling of the scandal.
Shaw made his comments as Britannic reported a 47 percent increase in pre-tax profits to 93.9 million pounds ($149 million), helped by a 23 million pound boost related to February's announcement of a 209 million pound special bonus for policyholders.
The bonus resulted from a government clarification of ownership of 'orphan' assets -- money surplus to policyholders' needs in with-profit funds.
Under an agreement with the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), 902 million pounds of the 5.68 billion pound life fund has been attributed to shareholders.
That helped lift the dividend by 82 percent to 28 pence per share, which Shaw said would provide the basis for double-digit dividend increases in the future.
Britannic shares added 12 pence to 871 pence.
Following a strategic review of its businesses, the company said it would be looking to build on its brand, investment management, distribution skills and product development capabilities to deliver enhanced value to shareholders and policyholders.
It also said that reversionary bonus scales for traditional business -- bonuses added to policyholder's investment during the course of the policy -- would be unchanged with modest reductions in annual bonus rates for unitised business.
Terminal bonuses for traditional business have been maintained.
New regular premiums rose 7.7 percent to 37 million pounds in 1996 and single premiums 16.8 percent to 137 million pounds.
It was also announced that William Haynes has been appointed to the Britannic board as sales and marketing director. ($ = 0.630 British Pounds)
About three million Norwich Union  policyholders are to receive free shares under flotation plans announced on Thursday that would value the insurer at about five billion pounds ($8 billion).
Almost two million will receive shares worth 800 pounds on average and another one million "non-profit" members of the mutually-owned insurance group will receive a fixed hand-out of shares worth between 330 and 400 pounds on the group's flotation in June.
The demutalisation and flotation - the first by a British insurer - will rank Norwich among Britain's largest 50 companies.
Norwich Union's 10,000 employees will share in the giveaway, receiving 150 shares each.
Norwich's adviser Dresdner Kleinwort Benson estimated the shares would be worth between 220 and 265 pence each had they been listed at the end of February.
The company, Britain's third largest life insurer, also unveiled plans to raise a further 1.75 billion pounds through an offer of new shares in May.
Existing Norwich members will be able to purchase shares at a discount, the size of which has yet to be finalised.
Members will vote on the proposals at an extraordinary meeting in London on April 18 with the company needing the backing of three-quarters of those who vote.
The size of the planned payouts is comfortably ahead of the 500 pounds many industry observers had expected.
Norwich chief executive Allan Bridegwater said he believed the group's mutual structure was no longer appropriate and that flotation was the best way forward for the company and its members.
"The distribution of free shares represents a significant release of value to qualifying members," he said.
"The discounted offer of additional shares will give members a further opportunity to participate in the future of Norwich Union."
The share handout will be worth a total of around 3.1 billion pounds. The two million with-profit members will receive a minimum of 300 shares with additional shares based on the value and duration of their holdings as of October 1, 1996.
Three-quarters of with-profit policyholders - life insurance policies which share in the investment profits of the life fund through bonuses - will get between 300 and 600 shares. Non-profit members will get a fixed allocation of 150 shares.
Most of Norwich Union's half-a-million overseas members will have the choice of a cash payment instead of free shares.
The flotation will allow the separation of the group's life operations from the risks associated with its more volatile and cyclical general business.
It will also strengthen the group's financial position and allow the core life business greater investment freedom.
The general insurance business will be transferred from the life fund to shareholder ownership and the life and pensions operations to a subsidiary company.
Norwich Union, which reported pre-tax profit in 1996 of 483 million pounds, said it believed the opportunities for sustained growth were good but that results in its general insurance arm would continue to be affected by pricing pressure in 1997, particularly in Britain.
Around 1.5 billion pounds of the money raised under today's plans will go into the with-profits fund to enable the company to continue to keep up policy benefits to existing policyholders.
The balance, less the 120 million pound cost of the flotation, will be used for corporate purposes.
While the company did not rule out the possibility of future acquisitions, it said it had no immediate plans to do so and was not "raising a war chest."
Policyholders circulars were due to be mailed on Thursday and the group expects the prospectus for the additional share offer to be issued in May. ($ = 0.624 British Pounds)
China is keen to see a smooth resumption of sovereignty over Hong Kong because it will pave the way eventually for reunification with Taiwan, an expert on Chinese security policy said on Thursday.
Jonathan Pollack, a senior advisor on international policy at the Rand think-tank in the United States, also said he expected the People's Liberation Army (PLA) to gain more clout as the country's new leader Jiang Zemin needed its support.
"After the Hong Kong transition, we're going to see (China) putting some pressure on Taiwan to accelerate some kind of discussions, if not an overt negotiation," said Pollack, a specialist on Chinese political and security affairs.
"The Chinese do believe that it will serve as an example if they are able to effect this transition in an uneventful fashion. It will serve as an example that will help...their seeking more cooperation from Taiwan in the future," he told reporters after presenting a seminar in Hong Kong.
Hong Kong, a British colony of more than 150 years, reverts to China at midnight on June 30. Under Sino-British handover treaties, the territory of 6.4 million people is guaranteed autonomy for 50 years, except in foreign affairs and defence.
The imminent return of Hong Kong to China's fold, in just 103 days, under a "one country, two systems" policy allowing it a high degree of autonomy, is held up by Beijing as a model for Taiwan's eventual reunification with China.
Beijing regards Taiwan as a renegade province since a civil war split them in 1949 and has warned the Nationalist-ruled island against any aspirations for formal state independence.
Pollack also said the death of China's leader Deng Xiaoping in February would result in a higher profile for the PLA, mainly because the country's new leader needed its political backing.
"It will give the PLA more resources...enhanced budgetary clout, only because Jiang Zemin's own position depends to a significant extent on the military support he has," he said.
"Deng was in a position to say no to different people in the PLA. I don't think Jiang is quite in the same position."
Pollack said that how the PLA would use its new leverage remained to be seen, but he thought it was unlikely to flex its muscles in an "assertive or aggressive fashion."
Ominous gray clouds scudded over Hong Kong on Sunday as the British colony marked the 100-day countdown to the handover, but there were few physical signs of gloom and doom in the wealthy community of six million.
More than 7,000 Hong Kong people took to the streets to the din of cymbols and kettle drums in a patriotic fervour to celebrate the impending reunion with China at midnight on June 30, 1997.
A stone's throw away, thousands more, most of them westerners and swelled by an influx of visitors, indulged in the ritualistic orgy that has built up around the annual international Rugby seven-a-side tournament.
The tournament was honoured this year, the last under British rule, when Rugby Authorities made it into the world cup event.
The 28th and last British governor, Chris Patten, described Hong Kong as running as smoothly as a Rolls Royce limousine -- but warned China against tinkering with the finely tuned machinery that is the Hong Kong of 1997.
But for the majority of Hong Kong's hardworking citizenry, it was a normal Sunday. A chance for a lie-in, a family gathering at a restaurant -- a day off from work.
With just 100 days to go, Hong Kong is awash in a sea of differing emotions.
Some, like the street revellers, are delighted that more than 150 years of Chinese humiliation is about to end.
"This is a grand and great occasion. In just 100 days, we will return to the Chinese motherland," said chief organiser Raymond Wu as the revellers gathered in Victoria Park -- named after the queen who reigned when Britain, at the height of its imperial powers, wrested Hong Kong from China's weak and crumbling Qing dynasty in the mid-19th century.
"We welcome the washing away of over a century of humiliation and shame," Wu said to a burst of applause.
Others fret, particularly the pro-democracy camp, about their future under a China that has already put in place plans to dilute civil liberties and dissolve the elected legislative council -- undoing democratic reforms spearheaded by Patten.
A handful of demonstrators, their mouths taped shut in what they said was a symbol of things to come, took up position around the base of Queen Victoria's statue and held up placards condemning China's brutal military crackdown on student-led demonstrators around Beijing's Tiananmen Square in June 1989.
Many people are simply keeping their fingers crossed.
But Hong Kong, as it enters the last leg of its drawn out transition from British colony to Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China, has defied those who forecast a society in chaos, of panic, economic collapse and deserted buildings.
Patten said Hong Kong had reached this moment in its history in first class condition.
He cited a poll conducted earlier this month by the 1997 Transition Project at Hong Kong's Baptist University that found that 90 percent of the people here were happy with life.
Patten said the views that Hong Kong would quickly adjust to the rolling back of freedoms or of more authoritarian government were dubious.
"Hong Kong is, as I said recently, a smoothly functioning community. It's like a Rolls Royce," Patten said.
"All you need to do if you're in charge is to slip into the driving seat, switch on the ignition and away you go.
"I don't quite see the point of lifting the bonnet to tinker with the engine. That only raises worries about whether it will work so well, and whether you may be persuaded by some people to start stripping it down for spare parts."
Thousands of Hong Kong people took to the streets under rain-filled skies on Sunday to celebrate the 100-day countdown to the resumption of Chinese rule over the British colony at midnight on June 30.
The bad weather failed to dampen an outburst of nationalistic pride as dragons, lions and unicorns -- Chinese symbols of luck and joy -- pranced to the deafening clash of cymbals and drums.
More than 7,000 people of all ages from more than 100 pro-Beijing community organisations took part in the parade which wound through busy streets on Hong Kong island.
When Hong Kong, a British colony for more than 150 years, returns to China, it will become a Special Administrative Region (SAR) governed by its own Chief Executive and promised considerable autonomy in running its affairs.
"This is a grand and great occasion. In just 100 days, we will return to the Chinese motherland," said chief organiser Raymond Wu at the start of the rally which gathered in Victoria Park -- named after the British queen who reigned when Britain seized Hong Kong from a weak China in the 19th century.
"We welcome the washing away of over a century of humiliation and shame," Wu said to a burst of applause.
The present Queen's head is disappearing from the territory's coins and stamps. Victoria Park will be renamed Central Park after the handover.
Few of the merry-makers as much as glanced at the massive bronze statute of Victoria in the park as they left for a march through the streets.
Sporting red and white baseball caps and waving little red and gold flags of China interspersed with the red and white flags of the new Hong Kong SAR, the crowds marched through busy streets, laughing and urging bystanders to join in. Few did.
