The primetime programme, to be shown over 12 days, would set the tone for a crucial Communist Party congress due later this year, largely by defining Deng's legacy to the current party leadership, Chinese and Western political analysts said.
"This is an extremely important year for the Communist Party with the recovery of Hong Kong and the holding of the 15th party congress," a Western diplomat said.
"China's leaders are reminding people that Deng was instrumental in regaining Hong Kong, and they are also using him to define their own policies at the congress and in the post-Deng era."
Deng has not been seen in public in nearly three years. At his last appearance he looked frail and unsteady.
The documentary showed a vigorous leader, larger than life and portrayed against a background of golden clouds radiating across the sky.
He was seen inspecting factories while donning a hard hat, shaking hands with children and receiving gifts of poppies in Paris in the 1970s.
The main theme of the one-hour show was clearly reform, underlining China's commitment to its course of market-oriented economic change charted by Deng and continued under his chosen successor President Jiang Zemin.
But its use of adulatory tones -- opposed by Deng who abhorred the personality cult of revolutionary leader Mao Zedong -- suggested that the ageing party veteran had little or no control over the documentary's contents.
Speculation about Deng's health surfaces periodically and an unconfirmed report described him as lapsing briefly into unconsciousness this week.
Some Hong Kong newspaper reports said he had been admitted to a top military hospital but there were no unusual movements this week at the Beijing medical centre where senior officials are usually treated.
Deng had vowed to visit Hong Kong to witness the historic transfer of power at midnight on June 30 this year but a Beijing official believed to be close to the Deng family said recently this was unlikely.
On Wednesday, the People's Daily, the Communist Party newspaper, called on China's 1.2 billion people to uphold Deng's credo of pragmatism known as "socialism with Chinese characteristics".
In an article published earlier this week the newspaper described the television series on the life of the nation's paramount leader as one that "showed in their entirety the glorious achievements and greatness of the theories of comrade Deng Xiaoping."
The documentary had taken four years to complete and included interviews with more than 100 senior officials, according to official media.
Previews from the series showed Deng giving words of encouragement to party officials and reviewing China's military might -- interspersed with glimpses of sleek skyscrapers and modern factories, symbols of the material progress inspired by the party patriarch.
"This is very much linked to the party congress," said a Chinese academic. "It is setting the tone for those taking part in the party congress."
President and Communist Party chief Jiang narrated parts of the episode seen on television and was shown giving his assessment that Deng had made an important contribution to the building of a modern, socialist China.
Jiang is widely seen as the man who has the most to gain from the adulation for the paramount leader.
"This shows he (Jiang) has the mantle of Deng," said another Western diplomat.
"He is building up himself by building up Deng."
Share trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange could more than triple to a billion shares a day, once deregulation is decided and implemented, a senior official of the Finance Ministry said.
Atsushi Nagano, director general of the ministry's securities bureau, said he is resolved to make Tokyo a more attractive place to do securities business.
"It is not just a dream to boost the volume on Tokyo's stock market to one billion shares if we make the Tokyo market more attractive," Nagano told Reuters in an interview.
Nagano declined to discuss details of possible changes in regulations, but financial industry sources said some of the measures on the agenda are: - deregulation of brokers' commissions on smaller lots, - further breaking down the wall separating banks and securities houses, - allowing sales of investment trusts at bank counters.
On Friday, turnover on the exchange's first section was about 381 million shares, compared with a scant 225 million on Thursday. Daily turnover has averaged 300 million to 400 million in the past two years.
Nagano, whose bureau is responsible for overseeing the nation's securities markets and industry, said the industry has no choice but to open up to all investors from around the world in line with global standards.
Now recovering a little from a slump in business after the collapse of the "bubble" economy of inflated stock and asset prices of the late 1980s, the securities industry has begun to consider its future, although it is still somewhat vulnerable, he said.
In the past when turnover on the stock market dwindled, the government had thought of remedies such as increasing public spending, but this would not work any more, he said.
Share trading on the exchange was worth $889 billion last year, while that in New York stood at $3.08 trillion, data from the Finance Ministry show.
Trading volume of Nikkei 225 index futures on the Osaka Securities Exchange (OSE) plunged to 7.22 million lots or contracts in 1995 compared with 21.64 million in 1991, while that on the Singapore Mercantile Exchange (SIMEX) surged to 3.16 million lots from only 361,000 in 1991.
Market sources said declining turnover of Nikkei 225 index futures was attributable to tougher trading rules the Finance Ministry imposed after the bubble burst in the early 1990s.
In June, an advisory panel to the Finance Minister, the Securities and Exchange Council, established a special committee to debate reform in the securities markets, the industry and securities policy management.
Nagano said he wanted the committee to discuss wide-ranging issues which have impeded development of Japan's securities markets. "I believe there is a lot of room to expand for this (securities) industry. While investors and borrowers need each other, there are some obstacles to matching (the needs of the two sides)."
Nagano said he did not want the committee to go into individual measures hurriedly without deep discussions about the problems facing the markets and the industry.
"It may take one or two months from now before discussions of individual issues start," he added.
The committee is expected to make proposals next June.
One of the hottest topics at a recent Internet trade show was so-called "push technology," which directly broadcasts customised news to computer users hooked up to the Net -- but is also seen as the next area ripe for a shakeout     Internet broadcasters are led by companies
like privately held PointCast Inc., which announced a major deal with software giant Microsoft Corp. early last month.
Cupertino, Calif.-based PointCast and several other start-up companies deliver customised news -- or specific Web sites, depending on the service -- to consumer or corporate computer users, up to several times a day.
In other words, instead of searching the Web for the information they want, computer users have it sent directly to them.
The Yankee Group, a Boston research firm, predicts that by the year 2000 Internet broadcasting will be worth $5.7 billion in revenues. It now represents about $10 million in revenues a year.
"Making the Internet a broadcast medium is a direction that a lot of companies are going in, but that's already really crowded," said Ted Julian, an analyst with IDC Corp.
At the Internet World trade show, four of the best-known push technology companies exhibited and demonstrated their services, trying to differentiate themselves amid all the hype about direct Internet broadcasting.
But analysts said there are anywhere from 20 to 30 start-ups in this burgeoning area, as many companies are betting the concept will further change the World Wide Web and gain new advertiser interest.
"This is the new Web," said Steve Harmon, senior investment analyst at MecklerMedia Corp., host of the Internet World show.
PointCast was the first company to develop what are called personalized broadcast systems, and it now has 1.7 million subscribers. It delivers news from The New York Times, Boston Globe, Reuters Holdings Plc., and now MSNBC, the cable television-online news venture of Microsoft and General Electric Co.'s NBC.
PointCast and most of the other start-up companies operate on the same advertising-based model. They sell advertising space on their service and offer the service for free to subscribers.
By building up lots of subscribers, they can gain more advertising revenue.
The deal PointCast signed with Microsoft has the potential to significantly expand its subscriber base because PointCast will become part of Microsoft's next-generation computer desktop. Microsoft plans to incorporate its Internet Explorer Web browser in its next version of its Windows operating system, which dominates its market.
In a study last month, the Yankee Group said the Internet broadcasting market will significantly affect the way companies collect advertising dollars on the Web.
"The Web is hitting a wall" in terms of people signing up for paid subscriptions for information, said analyst Melissa Bain of the Yankee Group. "The Wall Street Journal (Interactive Edition) is successful, but not every content provider has had success. Users can get the information elsewhere for free."
Bain said that, according to her report, 51 percent of all online users surveyed said that they typically access or use the same Web sites on a daily basis, making the "push" model attractive.
But with many more companies arriving on the scene and Microsoft and Netscape Communications Corp. getting into the market, consolidation is on the horizon, because media companies will not want to develop a channel for each delivery system, most of which, for now, are proprietary.
"There is no way I am going to download all four of these, and I am in the industry," said Jerry Yang, one of the founders of search engine power Yahoo! Corp. "This is a huge issue."
But Yang said that Yahoo! and other Internet search engines are looking at push technology because it will enhance a user's experience with the Web.
"Look for Yahoo to do a lot of development with one of these companies, or a Yahoo!-branded push channel," Yang said in a recent interview. "We will all experiment."
At Internet World, StarWave Corp., one of Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen's many investments, demonstrated a service it plans to introduce sometime next year. Patrick Naughton, StarWave's chief technology officer, said the service will be free and demonstrated a television-like advertisement for Levi's on "StarWave TV."
Even the players themselves are predicting a shakeout.
Harmon of Meckler predicts that push technology will fuel a hot new wave of Internet initial public offerings. But unlike the search engine fever, when a bevvy of small, unprofitable companies went public -- only to see their stock prices sharply decline -- consolidation will come first, he said.
Another player, Freeloader, was purchased last year by Individual Inc. of Burlington, Mass. Freeloader lets subcribers choose what Web sites they want delivered to their computers and obtain news via Individual.
"Clearly, there will be a big shakeout," said Freeloader President Sunil Paul, adding that there is a lot of chaos right now. "PointCast clearly stands out, and we will be one of them (the survivors).
Another much-talked-about start-up, IFusion, is offering television-like content with video and audio in its service, which will be introduced early this year and called Arrive.
The company that created some of the recent frenzy about "push" technology is Marimba Inc., founded by several former Sun Microsystems Inc. employees.
Marimba did not exhibit at Internet World, but the Palo Alto, Calif.-based company, which develops software tools to create these "channels" using Sun's Java programming language, was mentioned by everyone. Marimba, along with PointCast, were seen as the potential early IPO candidates of this sector.
A warning about weak Christmas sales from personal computer retailer CompUSA Inc. Thursday raised concerns that the entire computer industry may have a weak fourth quarter, sending PC stocks lower.
CompUSA, tradionally one of the healthier PC retailers, said it expected a disappointingly small rise in sales in the fourth quarter because of weak PC sales. The Dallas-based company was the third major PC retailer in two weeks to report a weak outlook.
"This is certainly not a good sign," said Scott Miller, an analyst at market researcher Dataquest Inc. in San Jose, Calif.
Stock in Compaq Computer Corp., the world's biggest PC maker, fell $2 to $72.375. Dell Computer Corp. slipped $1.875 to $51.25. And Intel Corp., the biggest maker of PC microprocessors, declined 56.25 cents to $130.375.
Analysts said PC companies that make machines geared toward home users, including Packard Bell NEC Inc. and Acer Inc., did have a disappointing year.
Unlike last year, when Microsoft Corp. released the Windows 95 operating system, there were no compelling new technologies in 1996 to drive consumers to stores.
But investors may be overreacting, analysts said. The three biggest personal computer makers -- Compaq, International Business Machines Corp. and Dell -- get only a sliver of their revenues from sales to consumers.
In fact, each of the big three is expected to have solid fourth-quarter financial results because of strong corporate sales.
"Our checks with distributors indicate that IBM is going to have over 30 percent growth (in its PC business) this quarter," said Gary Helmig, an analyst at brokerage SoundView Financial. "IBM's sales are not really focused in the consumer marketplace."
SoundView Thursday raised its rating on IBM to long-term buy from hold.
Neither Dell nor Compaq are expected to suffer from weak consumer sales in the fourth quarter, either, analysts said.
"Corporate sales are still strong, as far as I can see," Dataquest's Miller said. In the past couple of months, many big companies began buying huge numbers of PCs to take advantage of new business software from Microsoft, released late this year.
"The companies that are really suffering now are the ones that are very exposed to retail," said Don Young, an analyst at Prudential Securities in New York.
Those companies may continue to have weak sales increases into 1997, while consumers wait for new multimedia PCs to be released, analysts said.
Packard Bell and Acer officials could not immediately be reached for comment.
Ameritech Corp. Thursday became the first Baby Bell phone company to seek federal approval under the new telecommunications law to offer long-distance service from its regional calling area.
The Chicago-based carrier asked the Federal Communications Commission for permission to provide long-distance service to residents in Michigan, one of five midwestern states in which the company now provides local service. Ameritech has 3.5 million customers in Michigan.
Under last year's law, Ameritech and other Bells can offer long-distance service from within their local-calling regions once regulators are convinced the Bells have opened their local network to new rivals such as AT&amp;T Corp. and others.
The Bells can then provide customers the convenience of one-stop shopping involving local and long-distance service.
"It's the single largest potential change that can occur quickly in the communications market," said analyst Scott Cleland of Schwab Washington Research Group.
"If Ameritech gets a yes, it's easy for them to gain customers." The company has 11 million residential customers in Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana and Ohio.
FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said Ameritech's more than 4,000-page application "opens a new chapter" in the implementation of the landmark telecom law.
But the application is sure to face tough scrutiny at the agency and from other government regulators.
Long-distance giants AT&amp;T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. called on the FCC to reject the move, saying Ameritech has not yet opened its local phone market.
The FCC -- after consulting with the Justice Department and Michigan regulators as well as seeking public comment -- has 90 days to decide whether Ameritech's entry is in the public interest.
In particular, the carrier must meet a detailed 14-point checklist showing it has opened its local network in Michigan to new competitors.
"The American people have called for choice," said Ameritech Chief Executive Richard Notebart. "Congress responded last year by passing a law that accelerates a competitive marketplace for all communications services. Ameritech is stepping forward to make this happen."
AT&amp;T, however, called Ameritech's bid "clearly premature."
"It's obvious that real local service competition does not yet exist in Ameritech's Michigan territory," said AT&amp;T spokesman Ray O'Connell.
O'Connell accused Ameritech of trying to delay competition by ignoring orders from Michigan regulators to open its local network. He pointed out that Michigan's attorney general has intervened against Ameritech in a case pending before the state's supreme court.
"By any competitive or public interest standard, Ameritech's application to begin offering in-region long-distance service should be rejected," said Jonathan Sallet, MCI's chief policy counsel.
The No. 2 long-distance carrier said that Ameritech still controls 99.6 percent of Michigan's local phone customers, and that only four companies offer local service in Michigan.
None of the big three long-distance carriers -- AT&amp;T, MCI and Sprint -- now offer such service.
In any event, Ameritech's bid is expected to put pressure on other Bells to seek similar permission soon. Nynex Corp., which serves the Northeast United States, is considered a top candidate to seek approval in the near future.
Holiday sales for top U.S. retailers so far look mildly disappointing, but Wall Street is withholding judgment on the season and retailing's fourth quarter profit outlook until all the scores are tallied.
"There's a lot of nervousness about retailers and what they're going to report. It's definitely taking a toll on the stocks," said UBS Securities retailing analyst Annie Erner.
Shares in most retailers fell Thursday after J.C. Penney Co Inc said fourth-quarter earnings would not meet expectations and November-December profit margins were thin.  
Dayton Hudson Corp also reported early holiday results Thursday that were less than exciting, following a Friday warning of lower holiday sales from  Nordstrom Inc. The reports put retail analysts on edge, but they remain confident that other big players, such as Sears Roebuck and Co, May Department Stores and Federated Department Stores, will meet or exceed expectations.
"My impression is that May did okay. Federated looks like they're on plan and for Sears, we're looking for a good fourth quarter," said Brown Brothers Harriman analyst Joseph Ronning.
Shares in all three companies fell Thursday, nevertheless.  
The only major retail stocks to defy the downdraft, which was aggravated by a broadly lower Dow Jones industrial average, were Toys R Us Inc and Saks Holdings Inc, reflecting good toy and luxury items sales, analysts said.
Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Inc, a smaller home furnishings seller, also made gains Thursday after reporting good same-store sales for December, offering hope to analysts of more positive surprises from specialty retailers.
No such hopes lingered for hard-pressed computer retailers, however, as shares in CompUSA Inc, Tandy Corp and Circuit City Stores Inc declined.  
Reflecting a broad slump in home computer sales, CompUSA said Thursday that second-quarter same-store sales rose 1.5 percent, letting down analysts who had expected three percent.
Doing substantially better than computer sellers are drugstores, which may be among the top performers in weeks ahead as retailers post fourth-quarter results, analysts said.
Rite Aid Corp on Thursday reported strong December same-store sales gains. Advances in non-pharmacy revenues signalled good holiday gift sales and pharmacy-side gains reflected the growing prevalence of third-party payor schemes for prescription drugs, analysts said.  
In addition, J.P. Morgan Securities analyst Mark Husson said, "The cough and cold season is beginning to warm up. So that's good for sales, too."
Among department stores and discounters, a big factor in the mixed holiday sales season was the fact that it was five days shorter than last year's due to a fluke in the calendar.
"None of us knew what this five fewer days would do ... to the mechanics of the season," said Morgan Stanley analyst Bruce Missett.  The net result was that most big sales gains were restricted by the shortened season, while mediocre showings were made worse by it, analysts said.
"You came out with a trend line not dissimilar to what we've seen all year, which is modest growth," Missett said.
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
Ivory Coast-based firms and new investors aim to boost local cocoa processing in 1996/97 but will not reach the country's 50 percent of production target by 2000, industry sources and analysts say.
"The 50 percent is usually understood to mean about 400,000 tonnes (beans) but we're still way off that," said a spokesman for Abidjan-based processor UNICAO, one of Ivory Coast's top processors with rival Callebaut-Barry.
The country can already process around 180,000 tonnes but the industry sources said other potential investors might lift the total by at least another 110,000 tonnes to nearer 300,000 tonnes from 1997 if plans are completed.
Ivorian exporter SICC told Reuters its first processing project is likely to take shape in early 1997. The firm handles a total of 200,000 tonnes of cocoa in 1996/97 for clients including Cargill's Netherlands processing subsidiary Gerkens.
"We cannot think of handling that much without going into processing. We want to start in 1997 and are now at the decision stages with our partners," Deputy-Director Guillaume Adome told Reuters in an interview.
He said plans partly hinge on government incentives.
"A minimum of 50,000 tonnes (of beans could be processed) at Abidjan or San Pedro depending on space availability," said Guillaume, adding that Ivory Coast's second port San Pedro offered better tax advantages.
"It (the plant) would cost about $2 million and we will do it, one way or another," he said.
At least four other exporters and foreign traders are said to be interested in processing in Ivory Coast.
French group CEMOI restated in December its interest in processing up to 60,000 tonnes a year in Ivory Coast but has not detailed plans.
"We thought Cargill or (Cacao) De Zaan would buy into UNICAO," said one exporter. Others said they were waiting to see whether Cargill or its subsidiary Gerkens would boost its presence in Ivory Coast after its supplying trader Phibro's cocoa purchase contract with Ivory Coast's Caistab marketing body ended in late 1997.
UNICAO says its own 1997 processing expansion plans will go ahead despite the December sale of a 30 percent holding of its parent, largest Ivorian exporter SIFCA, to Arthur Daniels Midland by rival W.R. Grace.
A third 21,500 tonne capacity production line would be ready by October with production under way around January 1998.
"Capacity (bean grinding) will then be 86,000 three lines," said UNICAO's deputy director Kanga N'Ze, producing 50 percent cocoa butter and cake and 50 percent liquor. Capacity in 1995 was 43,000 tonnes.
UNICAO's only main rival Callebaut-Barry has three plants operated by its subsidiaries SACO and Chocodi, grinding up to 80,000 tonnes of beans a year.
Analysts, who see 30 percent as a more realistic processing target, say the aim of adding value to exports might be hi-jacked by short-termism.
"It takes a year to build a plant from scratch but is everyone committed for the long-term?" said N'Ze. "Running, especially energy costs, are still high so why would a European firm move?"
Ivory Coast produced a record 1.2 million tonnes in 1995/96 but has forecast closer to a million tonnes for 1996/97.
Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauze said earlier this year fiscal reforms, a new investment code, various incentives and the prospect of cheaper energy from offshore gas should encourage investment in cocoa.
The future leader of Hong Kong said on Thursday he would discuss the legality and funding of the territory's controversial post-colonial assembly with China's legislators during his visit to Beijing this weekend.
"I will discuss with the National People's Congress (NPC) the legal status of the provisional legislature, and also find out more on the arrangements for its funding," Tung Chee-hwa told reporters after a public function.
The former shipping boss did not say whether he would ask the Chinese parliament to pass a law to endorse the existence of the provisional legislature, which was formed on December 21 in China's southern city of Shenzhen.
Tung had previously said he may ask the NPC to enact such legislation if the need arose.
Britain and the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong say China's installation of the provisional legislature is illegal under the 1984 United Nations-registered Joint Declaration, which sets out the framework for the colony's returns to China.
China, upset by Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's electoral reforms in the twilight of British rule, set up the legislature to reverse these reforms when it resumes sovereignty of the colony at midnight on June 30.
The interim chamber was chosen by a 400-strong Selection Committee, hand-picked by Beijing. The committee also selected Tung to succeed Patten.
Tung has said the provisional legislature would soon hold its first meeting. However it will meet in China, not Hong Kong, in order to avoid a legal challenge by the colony's Democratic Party. The territory's biggest pro-democracy group says it is constitutionally illegal to have two legislatures operating at the same time.
Tung said he would try to persuade the Democrats to accept the provisional body during a meeting with them next Thursday. "The provisional legislature has the right to exist. I hope that everyone ... can accept it," he said.
The chief executive-designate also said he would hold talks with Chinese officials during his two-day visit to the Chinese capital, but would not be more specific.
Tung visited Beijing on December 17 for the first time after his selection as Chief Executive and was received by President Jiang Zemin, Premier Li Peng and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen.
Major retailers reported mixed results Thursday for the crucial holiday sales season, sparking a drop in their stocks on Wall Street.
The preliminary holiday reports by J.C. Penney Co. Inc., Dayton Hudson Corp., Carson Pirie Scott &amp; Co. and others are "further confirmation that the holiday was one of moderate growth," Morgan Stanley retailing analyst Bruce Missett said.
"There's a lot of nervousness about retailers and what they're going to report. It's definitely taking a toll on the stocks," said UBS Securities retailing analyst Annie Erner.
J.C. Penney said sales for the four weeks ended Dec. 28 were close to the Plano, Texas-based company's goals but that markdowns were higher than expected.
Total sales, including drug store sales, for the period were $3.6 billion, a 23.2 percent increase from the $2.9 billion in sales for the comparable period in 1995.
Same-store sales at J.C. Penney, not including drug stores, for the holiday period increased 6.2 percent over 1995. The company did not release dollar figures for same-store sales, which cover stores open at least a year.
The company also said it expected fourth-quarter earnings before charges would not meet Wall Street expectations and that profit margins for November and December were below planned levels.
J.C. Penney stock dropped $1.25 to $47.50 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Dayton Hudson said same-store sales at its 65 department stores in the Midwest, 736 Target discount stores nationwide and 300 Mervyn's discount stores in the West and South were up 4.2 percent for the same period. The Minneapolis-based company did not give dollar figures.
"Results at Target and Mervyn's for the four weeks were on plan, while department stores sales were below our expectations," Chief Executive Bob Ulrich said in a statement. "With the shorter selling season this year, we planned our sales conservatively and generally met our plans for the season."
Dayton Hudson department store sales increased 0.3 percent, Mervyn's sales decreased 4.1 percent and Target sales rose 7.1 percent, the company said.
Dayton Hudson stock fell $1.375 to $37.875 on the NYSE.
Carson Pirie reported a 12.8 percent increase in sales to $194.1 million for the four-week period. Same-store sales rose 7.6 percent.
"The sales results during the 1996 holiday season were in line with my expectations," Chairman Stanton Bluestone said in a statement.
But the Milwaukee-based company, which operates 53 department stores and four furniture stores, said it expected five-week sales results for fiscal December will fall slightly below those for the five-week period ended Dec. 30, 1995.
Carson Pirie and Dayton Hudson expect to report five-week results next week.
Last Friday, Seattle-based Nordstrom Inc. warned that holiday sales would decline from year-ago levels and that earnings would be below Wall Street estimates.
The reports put retail analysts on edge, but they remained confident that other big names, such as Chicago's Sears Roebuck and Co., May Department Stores Co. of St. Louis, and Federated Department Stores, of Cincinnati, would meet or exceed expectations.
"My impression is that May did okay. Federated looks like they're on plan and for Sears, we're looking for a good fourth quarter," said Brown Brothers Harriman analyst Joseph Ronning.
A big factor in the mixed sales performance for the holiday season was the fact that it was five days shorter than the previous year since the Thanksgiving holiday was later.
"None of us knew what this five fewer days would do ... to the mechanics of the season," said Morgan Stanley's Missett.
The net result was that most big sales gains were restricted by the shortened season, while mediocre showings were made worse by it, analysts said.
"You came out with a trend line not dissimilar to what we've seen all year, which is modest growth," Missett said.
Carson Pirie's stock dropped 25 cents to $25 on the NYSE. Among other retailers, Sears dropped $1.25 to $44.75 and May fell $1.25 to $45.50, both on the NYSE.
Morton International Inc., the maker of Morton Salt, has gained a key European presence for two of its businesses due to planned acquisitions, its chairman said Thursday, and is likely to expand there with further purchases.
"We're prepared to look at specialty chemical investments anywhere in the world. There are more opportunities in Europe and Asia than in the U.S. right now," Morton Chairman S. Jay Stewart said in an interview.
Earlier this week, Morton said it plans to acquire Italian powder coatings company Pulverlac Spa and French salt company, Compagnie des Salins du Midi et des Salines de l'Est.
Morton International's major product is Morton Salt, known for the signature phrase, "When it rains, it pours."
"We had been looking for an opportunity to get a reasonably significant powder coatings base in Europe," Stewart said of the Pulverlac agreement.
Morton has other specialty chemicals operations overseas, including making packaging adhesives in Italy and the Netherlands.
Stewart said he saw good demand growth for powder coatings, which are now applied to metal parts for protection and coloration. That demand could expand greatly in the future if use of these coatings expands to plastics and wood, he added.
Morton said Pulverlac will join Morton's North American coatings business and the combined operations will have sales of more than $200 million.
Morton's total sales for fiscal 1996, ended June 30, were $3.3 billion, including $1.6 billion in specialty chemicals sales.
"The acquistion of Pulverlac is very much consistent with the company's focus on growing its specialty chemical operations," William Blair analyst Robert Bartels said.
Morton also established a European presence in its core salt business with a definitive agreement to acquire two-thirds of Salins du Midi for about $195 million. Morton said it will make a public cash tender offer in France for the remaining shares of Salins du Midi, bringing the total price to about $290 million.
Salins du Midi, with estimated 1996 sales of almost $270 million, will join Morton's salt group, resulting in combined sales of $870 million.
Salins du Midi, headquartered in Paris, supplies salt for food and agricultural products, water treatment, de-icing and industrial applications. Salins produces salt at nine sites in France and four in Spain.
Morton operates 22 salt facilities in the United States, Canada and the on the Island of Inagua in the Bahamas.
Stewart said the acquisitions are expected to close in the third or fourth quarters of fiscal 1997, which ends in June. The acquisitions are expected to add modestly to earnings in the first year of operation, which would be fiscal 1998, and then contribute more significantly a few years later.
Looking ahead, Stewart said specialty chemicals remains "a priority" for making acquisitions.
Morton is growing its salt and specialty chemicals businesses as it moves ahead with plans to merge its auto airbag business with Autoliv AB of Sweden. That merger is expected to be completed in calendar 1997.
Stewart said the current debate over potential safety hazards from airbags, which critics say may harm children and smaller adults, underscores what he saw as the value of the business combination.
The combined company would make not only airbags but also car passenger restraints, enabling it to capitalize on whatever safety systems are employed in the future, Stewart said.
Sales of light vehicle in December are expected to be down as much as 6 percent from an unusually strong month a year ago, but analysts say the pace was robust enough for 1996's total to match industry projections of 15.1 million units.
General Motors Corp. will endure the largest drop of the Big Three, with the daily sales rate off by an estimated 16 percent from December 1995, according to David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities Inc.
GM's sales of pickup trucks, sport/utility vehicles and minivans -- the light truck category -- will be down significantly, in large part because the automaker is up against a tough comparison from a year ago.
However, car sales will also plunge by as much as 20 percent, estimates Michael Luckey, of Luckey Consulting Group. He attributes the decline largely to the continued aftershocks of GM's labor strife this fall, which cost the automaker about 120,000 units of mostly car production.
"They're still being hurt by the strikes," he said. "I think that's still a legitimate reason for one more month here in December."
GM is scheduled to report its sales on Friday, Jan. 3. Also reporting Friday is Chrysler Corp., whose sales will be flat or up slightly from December a year ago.
Light truck sales, which have been accounting for about 70 percent of Chrysler's total, are projected to rise 8 percent, offsetting an expected 9 percent slide in passenger car sales, said Healy.
Ford Motor Co., scheduled to release its results Jan. 6, will enjoy one of its best year-to-year comparisons since March 1994, said Luckey, with sales rising between 8 percent and 9 percent against a somewhat weak performance in December 1995.
Ford's car sales are forecast to dip 3 percent to 4 percent. Last week, Ford added another $500 to the $500 rebate it was already offering on the 1997 Taurus, indicating its determination to hang on the title of the best-selling car in America. Taurus sales through November were about 10,000 units over the rival Honda Accord.
"If Taurus sales spurt up, cars might be a little bit better than that," said Luckey.
Ford's light truck sales are seen rising a sharp 20 percent, he said, thanks to the strength of its pickup trucks and popular Expedition full-size sport/utility.
Imports and transplants continued to take market share from the Big Three in December, Healy said, climbing to a combined share of 28.6 percent, up from 28.1 percent in November.
"The strong dollar and the weak yen are resulting in aggressive pricing by the Japanese makers, particuarly in intermediate and small passenger cars," he said.
For December 1996, the light vehicle seasonally adjusted annual sales rate is expected to be in the mid-14 million range, analysts said, a precipitous drop from 15.9 million a year ago, the strongest month of 1995.
However, Luckey said the U.S. Commerce Department factors used to compute the rate penalize the total by 800,000 units, meaning the real rate is stronger than it would appear.
Most analysts expect the industry to finish the year at 15.1 million units.
"It should be 15.1 million," said Luckey. "That's almost certain unless something very strange happens in December."
That total would bring the average for the last three years to an unusually stable 15 million mark. In 1995, total light vehicle sales were 14.7 million, down from 15.1 million for all of 1994.
Major retailers reported mixed results for the crucial holiday sales season Thursday, sparking a drop in retail stocks.
The preliminary holiday reports by J.C. Penney Co. Inc., Dayton Hudson Corp., Carson Pirie Scott &amp; Co. and others are "further confirmation that the holiday was one of moderate growth," Morgan Stanley retailing analyst Bruce Missett said in an interview.
J.C. Penney said sales for the four weeks ended Dec. 28 were close to the Plano, Texas-based company's goals but markdowns were higher than expected.
Total sales, including drug store sales, for the period totalled $3.6 billion, a 23.2 percent increase from the $2.9 billion in sales for the comparable period in 1995.
Same-store sales at J.C. Penney stores, not including drug stores, for the holiday period increased 6.2 percent over 1995. The company did not release dollar figures for same-store sales, which cover stores open at least a year.
The company also said it expected fourth-quarter earnings before charges would not meet Wall Street expectations and that profit margins for November and December were below planned levels.
J.C. Penney stock dropped $1.75 to $47 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Dayton Hudson said same-store sales at its 65 department stores in the Midwest, 736 Target discount stores nationwide and 300 Mervyn's discount stores in the West and South were up 4.2 percent for the same period. The Minneapolis-based company did not give dollar figures.
"Results at Target and Mervyn's for the four weeks were on plan, while department stores sales were below our expectations," Chief Executive Bob Ulrich said in a statement. "With the shorter selling season this year, we planned our sales conservatively and generally met our plans for the season."
Dayton Hudson department store sales increased 0.3 percent, Mervyn's sales decreased 4.1 percent and Target sales increased 7.1 percent, the company said.
Dayton Hudson stock fell $1.25 to $38 on the NYSE.
Carson Pirie reported a 12.8 percent increase in sales to $194.1 million for the four-week period vs. 1995. Same-store sales rose 7.6 percent.
"The sales results during the 1996 holiday season were in line with my expectations," Chairman Stanton Bluestone said in a statement.
But the Milwaukee-based company, which operates 53 department stores and four furniture stores, said it expects five-week sales results for fiscal December will fall slightly below those for the five-week period ended Dec. 30, 1995.
Carson Pirie and Dayton Hudson expect to report five-week results next week.
Carson Pirie stock dropped 25 cents to $25 on the NYSE. Among other retailers, Sears Roebuck &amp; Co. dropped $1.25 to $44.875 and May Department Stores Co. fell $1.375 to $45.375, both on the NYSE.
Sales of light vehicles in December are expected to be down as much as 6 percent from an unusually strong month a year ago, but analysts say the pace was robust enough for 1996's total to match industry projections of 15.1 million units.
General Motors Corp. will endure the largest drop of the Big Three, with the daily sales rate off by an estimated 16 percent from December 1995, according to David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities Inc.
GM's sales of pickup trucks, sport/utility vehicles and minivans -- the light truck category -- will be down significantly, in large part because the automaker is up against a tough comparison from a year ago.
However, car sales will also plunge by as much as 20 percent, estimates Michael Luckey, of Luckey Consulting Group. He attributes the decline largely to the continued aftershocks of GM's labour strife this fall, which cost the automaker about 120,000 units of mostly car production.
"They're still being hurt by the strikes," he said. "I think that's still a legitimate reason for one more month here in December."
GM is scheduled to report its sales on Friday, Jan. 3. Also reporting Friday is Chrysler Corp., whose sales will be flat or up slightly from December a year ago.
Light truck sales, which have been accounting for about 70 percent of Chrysler's total, are projected to rise 8 percent, offsetting an expected 9 percent slide in passenger car sales, said Healy.
Ford Motor Co., scheduled to release its results Jan. 6, will enjoy one of its best year-to-year comparisons since March 1994, said Luckey, with sales rising between 8 percent and 9 percent against a somewhat weak performance in December 1995.
Ford's car sales are forecast to dip 3 percent to 4 percent. Last week, Ford added another $500 to the $500 rebate it was already offering on the 1997 Taurus, indicating its determination to hang on the title of the best-selling car in America. Taurus sales through November were about 10,000 units over the rival Honda Accord.
"If Taurus sales spurt up, cars might be a little bit better than that," said Luckey.
Ford's light truck sales are seen rising a sharp 20 percent, he said, thanks to the strength of its pickup trucks and popular Expedition full-size sport/utility.
Imports and transplants continued to take market share from the Big Three in December, Healy said, climbing to a combined share of 28.6 percent, up from 28.1 percent in November.
"The strong dollar and the weak yen are resulting in aggressive pricing by the Japanese makers, particuarly in intermediate and small passenger cars," he said.
For December 1996, the light vehicle seasonally adjusted annual sales rate is expected to be in the mid-14 million range, analysts said, a precipitous drop from 15.9 million a year ago, the strongest month of 1995.
However, Luckey said the U.S. Commerce Department factors used to compute the rate penalise the total by 800,000 units, meaning the real rate is stronger than it would appear.
Most analysts expect the industry to finish the year at 15.1 million units.
"It should be 15.1 million," said Luckey. "That's almost certain unless something very strange happens in December."
That total would bring the average for the last three years to an unusually stable 15 million mark. In 1995, total light vehicle sales were 14.7 million, down from 15.1 million for all of 1994.
Magna Group Inc. has a definitive agreement to acquire Homeland Bankshares Corp., the second-largest banking company in Iowa, for about $216 million, the companies said Tuesday.
St. Louis-based Magna will issue 5 million shares of its common stock and pay $92 million in cash in exchange for all theoutstanding Homeland common shares. Homeland shareholders may choose to exchange each of their shares for either about 1.55 Magna shares, a comparable amount in cash or a combination.
Magna said it will repurchase about 600,000 shares of the stock, under its current repurchase plan.
"We certainly will consider buy back programmes beyond that, but nothing has been approved beyond that," G. Thomas Andes, Magna chairman, said in a news conference.
Waterloo, Iowa-based Homeland, with assets of $1.2 billion as of June 30, owns and operates four commercial banks and one savings bank and provides financial services through a network of 33 locations in Iowa.
Magna, with $5.35 billion in assets, is the third-largest banking institution in the St. Louis metropolitan area and the nation's 95th largest banking company. It has 106 banking locations throughout Illinois and Missouri and a trust and brokerage company.
After the acquisition, Magna would have about 55 percent of its assets in Illinois, 25 percent in Missouri and 20 percent in Iowa, Andes said.
The deal is subject to approval by Homeland shareholders and regulators.
Magna said it expected the acquisition to boost earnings within 12 months, and save about $8 million through centralization of systems and procedures.
Some of the cost savings will come from job cuts, though those cuts could come from attrition, Andes said.
Homeland Chief Executive Erl Schmiesing said during the news conference that cuts were underway at Homeland in any case as it consolidated.
Magna will continue to consider other acqusitions, possibly in Iowa, Andes said.
"We certainly like the state of Iowa," he said. "We would certainly welcome the opportunity to expand in the state of Iowa, as well as Illinois and Missouri."
Magna is also among several Missouri-based banks considered by analysts to be likely acquisition targets, a perception that did not change with the Homeland acquisition announcment.
"It certainly doesn't make them any less attractive or likely as a takeover candidate," said Steven Schroll, a banking industry analyst at Piper Jaffray.
Homeland's stock rose $1.75 to $35.75, while Magna edged down 6.25 cents to $24.81 Tuesday on Nasdaq.
China's senior leader Deng Xiaoping is spending his twilight years as an effective recluse, leaving an opportunity for power-hungry, would-be heirs fighting for his title to use his name to strengthen their hand, analysts said on Thursday.
The most blatant sign of the exploitation of the reputation of the 92-year-old elder statesman was the New Year's Day launch of a 12-hour documentary on Deng's life that showed him larger than life, glowing against a background of golden clouds radiating across the sky.
"This was done, written and arranged by those around him who would benefit from having his image... burnished up a bit," said one Western diplomat.
"All those who owe their fortunes to him want to make him appear in as good a light as possible," he said. "The fact that they are starting the year with this shows that the pro-Deng camp seems to have the upper hand."
The clearest immediate beneficiary was the narrator of the introduction to Wednesday's inaugural episode of the 12-part series -- Deng's own anointed heir-apparent President, Communist Party chief and army commander-in-chief Jiang Zemin.
"Jiang will be better off if Deng is able to linger for about another year and a half -- until about mid-1998," the diplomat said.
"It would be inconvenient for (Jiang) if Deng went now," he said, adding that Jiang needed the clout of the man who succeeded Chairman Mao Zedong as China's most powerful man to consolidate his position at a crucial party meeting this year.
Deng has not been seen in public for nearly three years -- a result of his own desire to retire to a behind-the-scenes role as well as his failing health, analysts say. In his last appearance he looked weak and faltering.
Speculation abounds of Deng's fragility, ranging from rumours of his sudden admission to hospital in recent days to reports that he remains at home with little change in his health but with fading lucidity.
"There is no doubt that the perception is... that he is to all intents and purposes no longer consistently lucid," the diplomat said, adding that the adulatory documentary was proof of Deng's waning control.
"This is the kind of thing he always avoided," he said, quoting from Deng himself who always openly abhorred the cult of personality that deified Mao.
Chinese analysts said the series was reminiscent of the power struggles that gripped the inner ranks of the party in Mao's last years.
"You can see that people are now using Deng just as (Mao's wife) Jiang Qing and the Gang of Four used Mao to boost their position in the years before he died," said one Chinese writer.
Jiang and his opponents were already lining up their pieces in the months before the high-profile handover of Hong Kong to Beijing on July 1 this year and the crucial 15th Party Congress late in the year, diplomats and analysts said.
"The transition is pretty much done now, but Jiang still needs Deng's clout behind him until everything is wrapped up with the congress and the change of government at the 1998 National People's Congress (parliament)," the diplomat said.
The primetime documentary, carefully timed to start the year, is expected to define Deng's legacy to the current party leadership and thus future policies, political analysts said.
The main theme of the first one-hour show was reform, underlining China's commitment to Deng's pragmatic market policies that turned a backward Stalinist state into an economic powerhouse.
British building materials group Blue Circle Industries Plc produced the first tentative signs of a turnaround at its troubled European heating operations on Tuesday and set out ambitious plans for a ten-fold increase in operating profits at the division over the next three years.
The recovery in the heating sector, together with continued strong performance in the highly profitable Chile and Malaysia markets and the USA, helped lift Blue Circle's interim pretax profit by 11.7 percent to 116.3 million pounds ($181.5 million), at the top end of analysts' forecasts, with the interim dividend rising by 6 percent to 4.25 pence.
The heating operations, which are undergoing a major restructuring focused on France, Germany and the Britain, posted operating profits of nine million pounds in the six months to June, up from just 100,000 pounds a year before.
However, Britain's biggest cement producer also warned that it sees "no significant signs of recovery" in the key British cement market, and against a backdrop of a weak stock market Blue Circle shares slipped 5.5 pence to 373.5 pence by 1105 GMT.
Blue Circle chief executive Keith Orrell-Jones told Reuters the group's aim of achieving annual cost savings of 25 million pounds from restructuring heating is "well up to programme," with nine million pounds coming through this year and the full benefit seen in 1997.
Orrell-Jones said he is confident the group can achieve a 15 percent return on its 600 million pound investment in the struggling division, or some 90 million pound, within three years, despite sluggish economic performance in Germany and France.
"We are disappointed with the performance of the economies of both those countries, and we think it is not likely to ease very rapidly," said Orrell-Jones, adding "that is why we set a three-year time horizon" for recovery.
Blue Circle blamed a 24 percent drop in operating profit at the British cement operations on low infrastructure investment and "weak new housing starts." Orrell-Jones said the full-year outcome will be better than the first half, but he does not expect any real upturn until next spring.
With gearing a miniscule 1.5 percent at the end of June, Orrell-Jones confirmed Blue Circle is actively looking for opportunities to expand.
"We'd like to grow our cement business: it depends on where the opportunities crop up. In the U.S. it's a question of waiting for the right opportunity and the right time in the cycle," he said.
Blue Circle is "actively looking in South-East Asia, and we are taking a very careful look at India," he said, adding that it is also interested in expanding its south American operations beyond the fast-growing Chile market.
($1=.6406 Pound)
Chrysler Corp. Tuesday reported brisk sales of minivans and pickup trucks for August, pushing total U.S. sales for the automaker up 9 percent on a daily selling basis to 186,306.
The August total broke a company record for the month of 176,184 set in 1989.
Sales of light trucks, including popular Ram pickups and four-door minivans were 127,870, a 16.7 percent jump that marked the 11th consecutive month of rising light truck sales.
Domestically produced car sales came in weaker than some analysts had expected, falling 2 percent to 58,255 units.
Chrysler's strong light truck sales were helped by incentives on some Jeep sport utility models. Grand Cherokee sales rose 42 percent; Cherokee was up 52 percent; and Wrangler sales shot up 59 percent.
Total pickup sales were held back somewhat by low supplies of the Dakota, which is undergoing a model changeover. Dealers have a 35-day supply of the compact pickups -- about half of what the industry considers to be ideal.
Chrysler executives said they did not expect significant volumes of the new Dakotas to be available until October.
Steven Torok, executive director of sales and marketing operations, said Chrysler was not concerned about the slide in car sales. Total car sales were down 4 percent from August 1995, and off 24 percent from July.
August is often a seasonally weaker month than July, Torok said. Also, declines in the Dodge Stratus and Neon were partly attributable to model-year changeovers.
"Frankly, we saw our cars starting to firm up as the month went on, and we think we'll have a pretty good month in September," said Torok, adding September car sales will likely surpass those of August.
Torok said the No. 3 automaker was pleased with the breadth of its sales performance.
"What we see is a very even, consistent demand pattern," he said. "Consumer sentiment seems to be not euphoric but consistent."
Although car sales were slightly weaker, PaineWebber analyst Michael Ward said Chrysler's total numbers were still respectable because it was up against a strong year-ago performance.
Chrysler was the only one of the major automakers to report monthly sales on Tuesday. General Motors Corp. is scheduled to repoort sales Wednesday. Ward predicted it will post sales that are 4 percent to 5 percent below last year, with light trucks again offsetting weak car numbers.
Also on Tuesday, Subaru of America, a unit of Fuji Heavy Industries, reported U.S. sales up 18 percent to 10,361. Volvo Cars of North America, a unit of AB Volvo had August sales of 7,349, down almost 1 percent.
Rawlings Sporting Goods Inc chief financial officer Paul Martin said on Friday the company is not for sale, although it recognizes its responsibility to shareholders.
"The company is not for sale and the company doesn't comment on takeover rumors," Martin said in a telephone interview. "Obviously, we recognize our fiduciary responsibilities." Stock of the St. Louis-based sporting goods company has jumped more than 50 percent since early December, with market sources pointing to takeover rumors.  
"We keep hearing takeover, takeover," said one analyst, who does not follow the stock directly.
Another analyst said he was skeptical there were any takeover talks currently underway.
"I think it's just pure speculation right now, I don't think there's anything happening," said Timothy Conder, analyst at A.G. Edwards. He added that, based on fundamentals, the stock, which closed up 1-1/8 at 12-5/8 Friday, has a fair price of 9-1/2.  
In a research report on Thursday, Conder reiterated a maintain/aggressive rating on the stock, saying in the long term, Rawlings brand name makes it an attractive takeover candidate.
One potential acquirer for Rawlings that is repeatedly mentioned is Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike Inc. A Nike spokesperson could not be reached for comment Friday.
Conder said Friday the case for Nike is that it would round out the company's on-field baseball presence. But the case against Nike is that Rawlings is too small and does not have margins that match Nike's.  
Martin said Rawlings is scheduled to report fiscal 1997 first quarter financial results Tuesday, but added the company in November said it expected to report a modest loss for the quarter.
Rawlings said it expected revenues to decline in the quarter because of lower sales in baseballs and baseball gloves. The company reported net income of $890,000, or $0.12 a share a year ago.
Conder pointed out in his research note that the recent settlement of the Major League Baseball labor situation removes a large risk factor.
Major League Baseball is also considering using commemorative Jackie Robinson and Joe DiMaggio baseballs during the 1997 baseball season, which could boost Rawlings business in 1997, he said.
((--Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
RJR Tobacco, a unit of RJR Nabisco Holdings, said on Friday that documents it turned over to Minnesota in a lawsuit may suggest its executives considered using additives to enhance the nicotine kick of its cigarettes.
The company also said in a brief summary of some of the papers delivered to Minnesota state lawyers that its executives also considered beefing up marketing in 1980 to reverse a loss in market share among U.S. teenagers to rival Philip Morris Cos.  
RJR, along with other tobacco companies, is being sued by Minnesota and 17 other states to recover billions of dollars spent treating smoking-related illnesses of people through governmental medical programs. Trials in state lawsuits are scheduled this year in Mississippi, Florida and Texas.
RJR said it expected anti-tobacco information to be leaked selectively to news organizations by opposing lawyers and was releasing three potentially damaging short excerpts from the 4.5 million pages of documents with its own explantions.
The company said it would not release the full documents.  
RJR said two documents it turned over to Minnesota lawyers under court order suggested the company studied during the 1970s adding ammonia compounds to increase the effects of nicotine from cigarette smoking.
If ammonia, RJR quoted from one 1973 company document, were "found to make desirable contributions to the physiological satisfactions derived from smoking, we will want to optimize this effect in existing and/or new products."
RJR said research was carried out in an era when industry and popular thinking held low-tar cigarettes with heightened nicotine kicks would be less harmful to smokers.  
RJR deputy general counsel Daniel Donohue expects the Minnesota lawyers to use the documents to bolster claims the company was manipulating nicotine to hook smokers.
Anti-tobacco activists have repeatedly accused the industry of tarting up nicotine levels. Philip Morris won a large settlement and an on-air apology from the ABC television network owned by Walt Disney Co for a news story suggesting it manipulated nicotine content in its cigarettes. RJR also quoted from a 1980 memo sent by a marketing executive to the company chairman saying RJR's market share among smokers 14-17 was falling, but Philip Morris's was growing.  
"Hopefully our various planned activities that will be implemented this fall will aid in some way in reducing or correcting those trends," RJR's then-head of marketing wrote.
Donohue described the memorandum as shorthand and said it in no way suggested RJR worked to sell cigarettes to teenagers.
He also said company data on underage smokers was collected as a by-product of market research among adults.
The company said it was releasing the excerpts because it expected the memos and studies to be leaked and reported by rushed journalists without full context.  
"Cherry picked, leaked documents do not reflect the totality of our company's positions, strategies and marketplace efforts," RJR spokeswoman Peggy Carter said in a news release. But Minnesota Attorney General Hubert Humphrey III said RJR was misleading the public by complaining of selective leaks by anti-tobacco lawyers.
"The vast majority of documents cannot be made public due to a protective order demanded by the tobacco industry," Humprhey said in a news release. "If the tobacco industry truly wanted the public to know the whole truth, it would waive this protective order...I challenge them to do so."
A trial in the Minnesota lawsuit is set for 1998, Humphrey spokesman Joe Loveland said.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013.
Airbus Industrie's preliminary restructuring agreement may help the consortium become more efficient, but poses no near-term threat to Boeing Co's market dominance, industry analysts said Friday.
Although details of the Airbus agreement were not revealed, it appeared to represent a step forward from last July's announcement that the four-nation consortium would be transformed into a single corporate entity by 1999.  
"I think it's a step in the right direction," said Wolfgang Demisch of BT Securities. "They have a good franchise and they are going to be a contender."
Pressure on Airbus to act has increased since last month's stunning news that Boeing plans to acquire McDonnell Douglas Corp, its last remaining U.S. rival in commercial jets.
Analysts say Airbus needs to streamline its unwieldy management structure to have any hope of competing with highly centralized and rapidly expanding Boeing, which has access to enormous resources and the ability to subcontract work around the world.  
"If they are much more like a private company than they are now, certainly it would be to their benefit," said Paul Nisbet, an analyst at JSA Research.
Officials at Boeing, which controls about 60 percent of the worldwide market for commercial jets, compared with some 35 percent for Airbus, said they welcomed the news.
"We welcome an Airbus reorganization that would make its financial arrangements agree with generally accepted accounting principles and become transparent to public scrutiny, which includes the publication of regular financial statements," a Boeing spokesman said.  
He added that Boeing officials expect any reorganization would "further remove Airbus operating decisions from government control and influence."
Demisch believed the latest Airbus agreement would enable the consortium to better integrate aircraft development, although manufacturing would still be done by the four member companies.
The consortium members are French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz AG's aerospace unit and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.  
He said Airbus's success as a multinational should position it to compete in areas beyond its core commercial jet market such as defense and space.
While the Airbus restructuring is aimed in part at raising the billions of dollars needed to launch its planned A-3XX jumbo jet, Boeing officials have aggressively disputed the market projections put forward by the consortium.
Boeing, which is mulling a possible stretch version of the 747, says the market for a super-jumbo jet is barely big enough for one player, much less two. And Boeing says an all-new jet would cost far more than the $8 billion Airbus projects.
Meanwhile, Airbus recently postponed a decision on a far cheaper plan to stretch its A340 model to compete with the sallest 747 and largest 777 models.
((-- Reuters Seattle bureau 206-386-4848))
Apple Computer Inc. Chairman Gilbert Amelio will outline a long-awaited plan Tuesday to revamp the Macintosh personal computer with the help of recently acquired Next Software Inc.
At the Macworld trade show here next week, Apple and dozens of other vendors also will unveil new products that could help boost the Macintosh market in 1997, analysts said.
This year's show will be more cheery than last year's, when Apple's future as an independent company was in doubt, customers and vendors said. In 1996, Apple's new management under Amelio stopped huge financial losses and acted quickly to come up with a plan to update the Mac.
"We're very pleased with the decisions Apple has made with the future of the Mac," said Bob Roblin, senior vice president of marketing at Adobe Systems Inc., one of the biggest suppliers of Mac software.
"It's going to be a much more upbeat show, but one where a lot of questions have to be answered."
The questions swirl around Apple's agreement last month to pay $400 million for Next, the company run by Apple co-founder Steven Jobs.
Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., plans to take Next's well-regarded operating system -- a type of program that controls the basic functions of a computer -- and meld it with the Mac operating system. The Mac's fundamental software needs an overhaul to keep up with Microsoft Corp.'s Windows family of software.
While Apple management has outlined the Next strategy, Macintosh programmers and executives of Mac-related companies said they still needed lots of technical details before they could start working on new products.
"As a user, I want to know what this means for the interface, for the functionality, for my existing software," said Phil Schuller, vice president of product management at Macromedia Inc., a developer of graphics software.
Other highlights of Macworld are expected to be the release of new versions of several key Macintosh products.
Adobe officials said they will announce plans to start shipping later this month the latest version of PageMaker, which helps graphic artists design and compose magazines and newspapers and is one of the best-selling Mac programs.
Microsoft will unveil its long-awaited Internet Explorer browser for the Mac at the show, a company spokesman said.
Apple itself will announce plans to re-enter the online service business. It plans a World Wide Web site, dubbed Apple Club, where subscribers can download Mac software. An annual subscription will cost $19.95, an Apple spokeswoman said.
In 1996, Apple pulled the plug on eWorld, its first foray into the online business.
Personal computer makers next week will simultaneously roll out flashy multimedia PCs designed around a new chip by Intel Corp, a move that is expected to give the consumer sector of the industry a much-needed boost.
On Wednesday Intel will officially launch its P55C microprocessor, with its so-called MMX (multimedia extension) technology. A slew of companies will roll out consumer PCs, notebooks and desktops using the new chip, which offers much faster performance than earlier designs.  
"(The impact of MMX) will be significant in the second half," said David Wu, a Chicago Corp analyst. "I should hope it helps -- the corporate world is strong and the retail world is very weak."
He said there was currently nothing new and sexy to drive sales in the consumer market other than better price performance.
CompUSA Inc on Thursday became the latest retailer to report disappointing sales of PCs during the holiday shopping season, normally the industry's strongest.  
To be sure, analysts said that PC makers with a strong presence in the corporate market would not be hurt very much by the disappointing consumer sales.  
Consumer anticipation of the new PCs was one reason that retailers were showing weaker-than-expected sales, as savvy computer buyers waited for next "big thing" to hit the market, analysts said.
In tandem with Intel's announcement, Compaq Computer Corp , Dell Computer Corp, Gateway 2000 Inc, Toshiba America Corp, Sony Corp, International Business Machines Corp and other companies are expected to unveil new high-end PCs, priced at more than $3,000.
On Friday, Intel shares jumped eight to 138-3/8 after two analysts made bullish comments about the company.  
"It's a tremendous kickoff to 1997," said Rod Schrock, a vice president of Compaq's Presario division. "We are so excited about the new MMX processor that we redesigned the entire line of Presarios from the ground up. Customers are going to get a pretty dazzling experience."
Schrock declined to give any product specifics, but he said that Compaq will launch its Presario consumer PCs with MMX at about the same time as Intel's announcement.
"It should provide an added boost to the demand for the new generation of PCs," Schrock added. "There was no major industry event in 1996. This year you have a new processor."
British mobile telephone company Cellnet on Friday reported strong growth in its customer numbers, confirming the British cellular market is healthy, already indicated by figures from rival Vodafone Group.
Cellnet, jointly owned by British Telecom and Securicor Group, said it had 2.68 million UK customers at the end of 1996, up from 2.3 million a year earlier.
Vodafone, the market leader in Britain, on Thursday reported a 20 percent increase in UK subscriber numbers over 1996 as a whole, reaching a total of some 2.8 million in December.
The market has settled down after a period of very rapid expansion at the beginning of the decade when mobile phones were a novelty.
However, analysts were impressed by the figures from Britain's two largest cellular companies and said there were signs of an increase in the rate of subscriber growth.
"Vodafone's performance was particularly creditable since historically they have done badly in Q4 while Cellnet did well, due to Cellnet's relative focus on the consumer market," broker SBC Warburg said in a research note.
Vodafone gained a net 146,000 UK subscribers in the last three months of last year once cancellations had been taken into account and said that its performance was an improvement on the corresponding 1995 quarter.
Vodafone shares added 4p to 244p on Friday, reversing the losses suffered in a generally weak market on Thursday.
Cellnet said its subscriber base had grown by 143,000 in the last three months of last year, against an increase of 215,000 in the Christmas quarter of 1995.
But Cellnet said that 1995 had been a bumper year and noted that the growth in its customer base was significantly higher than in the two previous quarters.
Both Vodafone and Cellnet are in the process of transferring their customers from older analogue networks to more efficient digital systems.
Vodafone said that more than 1.2 million of its UK customers were now on the digital network while Cellnet said it had over 880,000 digital customers.
One-2-One and Orange ORA.L, which offer only digital services, are due to release their connection figures next week. Orange shares were 2.5p higher at 188p on Friday.
Chrysler Corp. said Thursday it expected strong December sales results to cap off a record year for the automaker, with total 1996 car and truck deliveries exceeding 2.4 million units.
Chrysler's year-end sales report, to be released Friday, is expected to be one of the few bright spots for December, a month in which analysts predict industry volume will fall as much as 6 percent from strong year-ago levels.
Despite an expected drop in General Motors Corp.'s December sales by as much as 16 percent from year-ago levels, analysts say automakers sold enough cars and trucks during the month to enable the full year totals to match U.S. industry sales projections of 15.1 million light vehicles.
Chrysler Vice Chairman Robert Lutz told reporters at the Los Angeles International Auto Show that he expected the automaker's total December vehicle sales to be "several percentage points" ahead of last year's sales of 177,803 cars and trucks, which was a record for the month of December.
For the full 1996 year, Chrysler's sales of more than 2.4 million units exceeded their 1988 record of 2,208,057 cars and trucks.
Light truck sales, which have been accounting for about 70 percent of Chrysler's total, are projected to rise 8 percent, offsetting an expected 9 percent slide in passenger car sales, said Burnham Securities analyst David Healy.
Healy said GM's sales of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and minivans -- the light truck category -- will be down significantly, in large part because the automaker was up against a tough comparison from a year ago.
Car sales also will plunge by as much as 20 percent, estimates Michael Luckey, of Luckey Consulting Group. He attributes the decline largely to the continued aftershocks of GM's labour strife this fall, which cost the automaker about 120,000 units of mostly car production.
"They're still being hurt by the strikes," he said. "I think that's still a legitimate reason for one more month here in December."
GM is scheduled to report its sales on Friday, Jan. 3.
Ford Motor Co., scheduled to release its results Jan. 6, will enjoy one of its best year-to-year comparisons since March 1994, said Luckey, with sales rising between 8 percent and 9 percent against a somewhat weak performance in December 1995.
Robert Rewey, Ford group vice president of sales and marketing, said at the Los Angeles International Auto Show that he expected December car sales to be flat with the year-ago level, but truck sales were "fantastic" and should be up sharply.
Last week, Ford added another $500 to the $500 rebate it was already offering on the 1997 Taurus, indicating its determination to hang on the title of the best-selling car in America. Taurus sales through November were about 10,000 units over the rival Honda Accord.
"If Taurus sales spurt up, cars might be a little bit better than that," said Luckey.
Ford's light truck sales are seen rising a sharp 20 percent, Luckey said, thanks to the strength of its pickup trucks and popular Expedition full-size sport utility vehicle.
Imports and transplants continued to take market share from the Big Three in December, Healy said, climbing to a combined share of 28.6 percent, up from 28.1 percent in November.
"The strong dollar and the weak yen are resulting in aggressive pricing by the Japanese makers, particuarly in intermediate and small passenger cars," he said.
For December, the light vehicle seasonally adjusted annual sales rate is expected to be in the mid-14 million range, analysts said, a precipitous drop from 15.9 million a year ago, the strongest month of 1995.
However, Luckey said the Commerce Department factors used to compute the rate penalise the total by 800,000 units, meaning the real rate is stronger than it would appear.
Most analysts expect the industry to finish the year at 15.1 million units.
"It should be 15.1 million," said Luckey. "That's almost certain unless something very strange happens in December."
That total would bring the average for the last three years to an unusually stable 15 million mark. In 1995, total light vehicle sales were 14.7 million, down from 15.1 million for all of 1994.
Australia's biggest company, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (BHP), has agreed to pay its local steel workers a 10-percent pay rise over two years in a wage deal which could set the tone for other labour negotiations.
The deal, which covers over 13,000 workers at BHP steel plants around the country, falls short of pay rises being sought in some other areas of Australian manufacturing and provoked sharp words among rival trade unions.
The Australian Workers Union (AWU), which claims to represent about 80 percent of BHP steel workers, confirmed the deal on Friday, saying it was struck before Christmas and was well below its initial demand of 15 percent over two years.
But AWU organiser Mick Eagles told Reuters that historically low inflation in Australia was putting intense pressure on unions to modify their wage expectations.
"I think in this environment, with the way the CPI (inflation) is, I think the trend in the next 12 months and two years is going to put enormous pressure on wages to be kept low," he said.
"So a 10-percent outcome over two years is going to be seen as quite an achievement."
The Australian Manufacturing Workers Union (AMWU), which wants to make an annual wage rise of over five percent as the benchmark in the metal trades industry, said the BHP deal would weaken unions' position in other wage negotiations underway.
"Obviously when that happens, it always weakens other unions' positions, but that's typical of the AWU," Vince Theuma, Victoria state organiser for the AMWU, told Reuters.
"They run in there and reach deals that we're not trying to chase."
BHP, which has been working to slash costs to compensate for weak international steel prices and sluggish demand at home, described the wages agreement as satisfactory.
"Part of the agreement involves union agreement to introduce new types of employment arrangements which eliminate traditional demarcation lines and have novel concepts in terms of employment which provide us with a business benefit," a BHP spokesman said.
"We think this is a satisfactory resolution, bearing in mind the benefits of those innovative agreements," he told Reuters.
BHP initially offered eight percent over two years.
The agreement comes as wages growth continues to be cited by Australia's central bank as a major concern for inflation, now sitting well within the Reserve Bank's target range of between two and three percent.
Australia's biggest company, resources and steel group The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (BHP), said on Friday it has agreed to pay its domestic steel workers a 10 percent pay rise over two years.
The Australian Workers Union (AWU), which claims to represent about 80 percent of BHP Steel's 15,000 unionised steel workers, also confirmed the deal, saying it was struck and endorsed by the workforce just before Christmas.  
BHP and the AWU said the annual wage rises, effective from New Year's Day, were for five percent in calendar 1997 and five percent in 1998, paid as three percent instalments in January and two percent in July.
The wage rises include site-specific productivity offsets at steel mills around the country, but also included an adjustment for inflation and took into account other steel industry wage agreements, AWU spokesmen told Reuters.  
"These increases are to take place in the context of the agreement on the specific initiatives for improved performance through the introduction of incentive workplace agreements," BHP said in a short statement.
AWU negotiator Mick Eagles said the wage deal did not affect existing performance-related payments, under which workers can earn quarterly bonuses of up to about five percent of salary.
Eagles described the deal as a good outcome given the prospects for continued low inflation and predicted the wages of all Australian blue-collar workers would come under pressure.  
"I think in this environment, with the way the CPI is, I think the trend in the next 12 months and two years is going to put enormous pressure on wages to be kept low," he said.
"So a 10 percent outcome over two years is going to be seen as quite an achievement."  
A BHP spokesman told Reuters the deal was satisfactory.
"Part of the agreement involves union agreement to introduce new types of employment arrangements which eliminate traditional demarcation lines and have novel concepts in terms of employment which provide us with a business benefit," the spokesman said.
"We think this is a satisfactory resolution, bearing in mind the benefits of those innovative agreements," he added.
The deal was in line with a recommendation made to the company and union last month by Australia's labour tribunal, the Industrial Relations Commission.  
BHP initially offered eight percent over two years, while the AWU entered negotiations seeking 15 percent over two years.
The agreement comes as wages growth continues to be cited by Australia's central bank as a major concern for inflation, now at historically low levels and well within the Reserve Bank's target range of between two and three percent.
The deal averted the threat of strikes at BHP's steel plants around the country, but the group's minerals division continues to feel the effects of industrial strife.  
About 700 workers downed tools on Thursday over wage and benefits disputes, halting construction of a A$1.5 billion iron ore processing plant being built for BHP at Port Hedland in Western Australia.
The striking workers are engaged to independent contractors hired by BHP.
In November, BHP coal miners in New South Wales state called a strike over cuts in accident compensation payouts.
-- Melbourne newsroom 613-9286-1421
Shareholder democracy will grab the spotlight when investors in the troubled Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel SA/Plc vote on a complex debt deal aimed at keeping the company afloat.
The restructuring agreement with its bank lenders requires a two-thirds majority at an extraordinary meeting of shareholders expected to be held by March.
Potentially, two French shareholder groups could muster a blocking minority but the associations hold distinct positions and styles. Of Eurotunnel's estimated 750,000 small investors, around 600,000 are French.
Albert Jauffret heads the newer and smaller Association de Defence des Actionnaires d'Eurotunnel (Adacte), considered by some as the more "extremist" -- but possessing clear and strongly-held views on the restructuring and what he wants.
"Whether one agrees with his views or not he represents a group of shareholders and shareholder democracy requires each shareholder has a voice," said lawyer Sophie L'Helias, who acted as proxy agent for more than 20,000 Eurotunnel shareholders.
Jauffret, a retired headmaster, believes the restructuring gives too much to the banks. "We are very unhappy the debt is being treated at face value," he said.
In London's secondary debt market, Eurotunnel's 70 billion francs ($13.40 billion) of junior-ranked loans have been marked down to about 40 percent of face value, on a view they are distressed assets.
CALL FOR SOME DEBT CANCELLATION
The 225 lending banks should cancel at least a third of the debt, taking their lead from the market's valuation, instead of keeping most of the debt intact, Jauffret argues.
The restructuring takes out eight billion francs of loans to be swapped for shares at 10.40 francs per share.
The loans outstanding should be converted into Eurotunnel shares at 24 francs per share, the average level of the last three rights issues by Eurotunnel, Jauffret believes.
Adacte is highly critical of Eurotunnel's managers, whom Jauffret believes are cowed by its bankers. At the annual general meeting in June, he moved a resolution, which was easily defeated, to sack co-chairman Patrick Ponsolle along with six other executives, considered too close to the banks.
Adacte, which held proxies for about four percent of the votes at the AGM, was founded in September 1995 as a breakaway from the Eurotunnel shareholders association.
Christian Cambier, who runs the Prigest portfolio management company, heads the Eurotunnel shareholders association which was set up in 1992 and has around 3,000 members, most of whom are professional workers rather than the retired folk who make up Adacte.
DIFFERENT APPROACHES
The difference in constituencies partly explains the divergent approaches. Adacte members are angered by the loss of life savings, while Cambier's have limited losses to spare investment income, said one observer.
The contrasting styles was shown clearly after Eurotunnel announced the restructuring agreement with its bankers.
Adacte denounced it as a "declaration of war", because it did not cancel any debt. In contrast, the Eurotunnel shareholders association said it would seek a meeting with management to get more details.
"We support the management," Cambier says, adding that he does not want to change the board. He spends perhaps five percent of his time on Eurotunnel and the rest managing client funds.
Cambier does not fundamentally object to the restructuring but says the operating licence needs to be extended to 99 years from 65, to allow the company extra time to make money.
His clients hold around 1.5 million Eurotunnel shares and lend them in stock-lending operations, which he says poses no conflict of interest. They gain a running yield each month, even though the shares have fallen sharply in value.
However, both Cambier and Jauffret share common ground when they accuse some of Eurotunnel's banks and brokers of conflicts of interest.
They accuse some of the underwriters for the 1994 rights issue of short selling the shares in the months before the May capital increase.
Cambier garnered a near blocking minority of around 32 percent of the votes at the AGM, after a ground-breaking proxy solicitation, and wants to improve on that for the crucial EGM.
He says he will base his voting on the share price. If Eurotunnel trades below five francs, he will take that as the market's no-confidence in the restructuring, but if it is between 10 and 15 francs, he will approve the deal. ($1=5.225 French Franc)
Chad holds much-delayed parliamentary elections on Sunday with voters hoping that democratic reforms and oil development will bring a lasting end to sometimes bloody ethnic rivalry.
An estimated 300,000 nomads in the sprawling arid nation on the edge of the Sahara Desert started voting on Thursday, three days before the rest of the 3.5 million voters throughout the Moslem north and centre and largely Christian south.
A total of 658 candidates from 49 parties will be vying for the 125 seats in a new national assembly which will convene on March 31 when the former French colony's democratic transition finally draws to an end.
"Oil is really what is at stake. Christian and Moslem differences have calmed although Islamic fundamentalism is rising," one diplomat told Reuters.
Polls open from 7 a.m. (0600 GMT) to 6 p.m. (1700 GMT).
French troops, stationed in Chad under a defence pact, will help fly voting materials and the 30 international observers to far-flung polling stations.
President Idriss Deby, the former northern guerrilla leader who seized power in a French-backed coup in 1990, won a long-delayed presidential election in July against southern rival and fellow general Wadal Abdelkader Kamougue.
Deby's Patriotic Salvation Movement, leading member of the 27-party Republican Front coalition, starts favourite to win Sunday's election or to be able to cobble together a working majority after the poll.
Election officials expect vote counting to end by Wednesday, provisional results a week later and final results by January 25, once the appeal court has checked them. Any run-offs will be held on February 23.
Many opposition parties disputed the first-round results of the presidential poll and urged their supporters to boycott the runoff but polling passed off peacefully. The opposition are grouped in a 17-party coalition.
The capital was calm on Saturday following a peaceful campaign, which ended on December 31.
Election issues tended to be local or ethnic but diplomats said that all parties were looking for a fair distribution of any wealth from oil, which is expected to come on stream by the year 2000. Chad has about 100 ethnic groups.
"People still largely vote on local grounds and Deby is not president of all Chadians," former national assembly leader, Jean Alingue, another defeated presidential hopeful, told Reuters.
"Turnout will be low because people know the fraud apparatus is still in place and nothing much will change," he predicted.
Chad has known coups, civil war or conflict with northern neighbour Libya for much of its life from independence in 1960.
It had a 57-member interim legislature under a 1993 transitional charter. Elections were repeatedly delayed, the parliamentary poll at least twice in 1996. Election officials cited organisational delays.
Rescuers struggled on Saturday to recover scores of bodies from the wreckage of a bus that plunged down a deep ravine in the Colombian Andes.
Red Cross officials said 37 people -- all members of a single extended family -- died in the crash and just three passengers survived, including a nine-month-old baby.
The bus ran off the road and plunged into a 1,500-foot (500-metre) chasm in a remote area of Narino province on Friday morning.
More than 50 volunteers took part in the rescue, which was made difficult by the extreme mountain conditions and hampered by thick fog and intermittent rain.
Rescuers were taking at least two hours to recover each body and Red Cross spokesman Mario Arias said it could take three more days to pull all the victims out of the ravine.
"The conditions are very dangerous and rescue work had to be suspended overnight and could only begin again at first light," Arias told Reuters in a phone interview from Narino, on Colombia's southern border with Ecuador.
"Rescue workers are having to abseil or scramble down into the ravine with the aid of ropes. The situation is just atrocious. It's taking us roughly two hours to bring each body out," he added.
The accident occurred near the town of Ricaurte as the bus travelled from Cali, the country's second-largest city, to Tumaco, a small port on the Pacific coast.
Arias said one of the survivors, Ana Maria Arboleda, 16, told him the vehicle swerved off the road when the driver, who died in the crash, tried to avoid rocks that had fallen on the highway.
Arboleda, her uncle Ambrosio Arboleda, 44, and nine-month-old Brian Montenegro were flung out of the bus as it rolled into the chasm. She suffered a broken arm and a cracked rib, and her uncle was only slightly scratched, Arias said. The baby has a cracked skull and is undergoing a series of emergency operations, Arias said.
Relatives and neighbours of the dead mourned the victims in their home city of Cali.
"This a tragedy. All these people were part of the same family," neighbour Eduardo Quinceno told the NTC TV news programme. All the dead worked in a small, family-run shoe factory, according to the Red Cross.
The fatal bus crash is the second in 10 days in Narino. Fifteen people died and 18 others were injured when a local bus flipped over and dropped into a ravine on Dec. 23. The latest accident is one of the worst in recent memory.
Apple Computer Inc.'s expected loss of $100 to $150 million in its fiscal first quarter is a serious setback to the company's unfolding comeback plan, industry analysts said on Saturday.
Apple was banking on a strong Christmas season this year to convince potential customers there are still plenty of people using the Macintosh and plenty of people willing to write software for it, analysts said.
The company also had hoped to show software developers there would be enough demand for their products while Apple engineers finish a major overhaul of the Mac's fundamental software with the help of recently acquired Next Software Inc.
But the loss shows Apple is having a much tougher time selling its PC than analysts expected.
"I can't tell you how many people have asked me about whether they should be buying from Apple when there's so much negative news out there," said Richard Zwetchkenbaum, an analyst at market researcher International Data Corp.
In the September quarter, Apple's share of the PC market worldwide fell to 5.4 percent from 8.7 percent in the same quarter a year ago, according to a recent Apple filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the U.S., its share fell to 7.3 percent from 13.2 percent.
Apple on Friday blamed a shortage of PowerBook laptops and slow sales of its Performa line -- which is geared toward home users -- for the shortfall. Consumer sales traditionally account for 40 percent of Apple's Christmas quarter.
Revenue for the quarter ended Dec. 27 will be about 10 percent less than the $2.3 billion reported in the September quarter, Apple said.
Meanwhile, Apple faces more technological competition from PCs based on Intel Corp. Pentium microprocessors. Intel will release in a few weeks a new Pentium with so-called MMX technology that can handle computer graphics and sounds much better than before.
Tim Bajarin, president of market research firm Creative Strategies International Corp., said some consumers may have put off buying Macintosh Performas -- until now, a favored brand for running multimedia software -- in favor of waiting for PCs based on Intel's MMX chips.
"It is an image problem," Bajarin said. "Apple has not been able to convince the consumer that the software developers are coming back, and has not been able to convince them that Apple will be around in the future."
Not counting the $400 million purchase of Next, Apple expects to report a loss of $100 million to $150 million, the company said. Based on Apple's 123.7 million shares outstanding, the loss would be about $0.80 to $1.21 a share.
Wall Street expected Apple to report a per-share loss of $0.04, according to a survey of analysts by First Call.
The expected loss puts pressure on Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio, who on Tuesday will outline his company's strategy to thousands of Macintosh customers and programmers at the Macworld trade show.
Amelio said on Friday the company would have to reduce its expenses by about $1 billion to $8 billion annually, to return to profit, a move that could include another round of firings.
Last year, the company laid off about 1,300 people.
In recent speeches Amelio said he did not expect the company's revenue to grow until 1998, but other executives have said they expected the company to have "sustainable profits" by the end of the March quarter.
While it is too early to forecast the March quarter's results, Apple is "telling people to recalibrate their expectations," David Harrah, corporate public relations director, said.
Chad held much-delayed multi-party parliamentary elections on Sunday but there was little enthusiasm in the sprawling and volatile African nation for its fourth round of voting in less than a year.
Some polling stations in the capital opened late as voting materials were not ready for the scheduled 7 a.m. (0600 GMT) start. Few queues formed in the shimmering heat of the day and those that did were small.
Some opposition candidates denounced incidents of fraud but the 30 or so international observers reserved judgment and there were no immediate reports of electoral unrest in the majority Moslem nation with a lively southern Christian minority.
President Idriss Deby, the former northern guerrilla leader who seized power in a French-backed coup in 1990, paid tribute to Chad's democratic progress after voting in the capital.
"We have made a non-negligible step in the democratic process set up in 1990," he told reporters.
Others took a different view. "Turnout will be low because people know the fraud apparatus is still in place and nothing much will change," said former national assembly leader Jean Bawoyeu Alingue, a defeated presidential hopeful.
More than 650 candidates from 49 parties contested the 125 seats in the national assembly, which will convene on March 31 to end the former French colony's transition to democracy.
Chad has known coups, civil war or conflict with northern neighbour Libya for much of its life from independence in 1960.
After repeated electoral delays, Deby won a multi-party presidential election in July after a run-off against southern rival and fellow general Wadal Abdelkader Kamougue.
Almost 68 percent of voters took part in the first round of that poll, which followed a March constitutional referendum. Voter interest tailed off in the second round.
A total of 3.5 million people were eligible to vote on Sunday in the nation on the fringes of the Sahara Desert. An estimated 300,000 nomads started voting on Thursday.
Deby's Patriotic Salvation Movement, leading member of the 27-party Republican Front coalition, started favourite to win or to be able to cobble together a working majority after the poll.
The opposition, which called a boycott of the presidential runoff alleging first-round fraud, has a 17-party coalition.
Election issues tended to be local or ethnic but diplomats said that all parties were looking for a fair distribution of any wealth from oil, which is expected to come on stream by the year 2000. Chad has about 100 ethnic groups.
"Oil is really what is at stake. Christian and Moslem differences have calmed," one diplomat said.
"It does not take much to make people feel better off," Alingue said. "We don't want to see the money vanish abroad."
Polls were to close at 6 p.m. (1700 GMT). Election officials expected provisional results within 10 days and final results by January 25, once the appeal court had checked them. Any run-offs will be held on February 23.
China is singing the praises of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping in a primetime television series but the paean to the ageing patriarch is getting mixed reviews from the man in the street.
Beijing residents viewed the first few episodes of the 12-part documentary on the 92-year-old leader with a mixture of adulation, scepticism and indifference.
"I think it's great. I've seen all of the episodes so far and I'm going to watch the rest, too," said a 35-year-old journalist on Sunday.
"Deng should be honoured for China's economic development," he told Reuters. "The show is just great."
Deng, whose pragmatic policies helped transform China from a backward Stalinist state into an economic powerhouse, has not been seen in public in nearly two years. In his last appearance he looked frail and faltering.
Speculation abounds about his health, ranging from rumours he was admitted to hospital in recent days to reports he remains at home with little change in health but with fading lucidity.
But he has been lionised in the television series.
Analysts have said the documentary would help define Deng's legacy to the current party leadership and set the tone for a crucial Communist Party congress due later this year.
Saturday's episode dealt with the period just after the 1949 Communist revolution and strove to show how Deng began forming his market-oriented economic policies.
While the television series has so far avoided measuring Deng's more open policies against the disastrous radicalism of revolutionary leader Mao Zedong, the contrast was not lost on some viewers.
"Mao liberated the country but he made mistakes like the Cultural Revolution," said the journalist in a reference to the decade of ultra-leftism that Mao inspired in 1966.
Some viewers said the programme was carefully crafted by China's propaganda tsars and may not have given the whole story.
"Of course they have to censor a few things," said one 27-year-old musician who declined to be identified.
The series has not mentioned Deng's second wife who left him for another Communist official in 1932 when he fell from political grace for the first of three times in his long career.
But many people said they had not watched any of the episodes, while others who saw it were less than enthusiastic.
"I saw some of it but there were too many commercials," said a middle-aged woman who was selling peanuts and sunflower seeds at a roadside market.
A soldier who was sweeping snow from a Beijing street, asked for his thoughts on the man responsible for China's opening up to the outside world, said; "I don't know anything about that. And why do you ask?"
R.J. Reynolds executives considered using additives to enhance the nicotine kick of cigarettes and also considered beefing up marketing to teenagers, according to a summary of documents that the company's parent turned over in a Minnesota lawsuit.
R.J. Reynolds, a unit of RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., said Friday it turned over the documents to Minnesota state lawyers in connection with a lawsuit the state has filed against tobacco companies to recover state money spent on treating smoking-related illnesses.
Along with other tobacco companies, R.J. Reynolds is being sued by Minnesota and 17 other states to recover billions of dollars spent treating smoking-related illnesses. Trials those lawsuits are scheduled this year in Mississippi, Florida and Texas.
R.J. Reynolds said it expected anti-tobacco information to be leaked selectively to news organisations by opposing lawyers and was releasing three potentially damaging short excerpts from the 4.5 million pages of documents with its own explantions.
The company said it would not release the full documents.
It said two documents it turned over to Minnesota lawyers under court order suggested that the company in the 1970s studied adding ammonia compounds to increase the effects of nicotine from cigarette smoking.
If ammonia were "found to make desirable contributions to the physiological satisfactions derived from smoking, we will want to optimize this effect in existing and/or new products," the company quoted one 1973 company document as saying.
Cigarette makers have long denied that they tried to manipulate the nicotine effects from their products.
R.J. Reynolds said the research was carried out when the industry and others thought low-tar cigarettes with heightened nicotine kicks would be less harmful to smokers.
R.J. Reynolds deputy general counsel Daniel Donohue said he expected the Minnesota lawyers to use the documents to try to bolster claims that the company was manipulating nicotine to hook smokers.
Anti-tobacco activists have repeatedly accused the industry of manipulating nicotine levels.
Philip Morris Cos. Inc., the world's biggest cigarette maker and producer of Marlboro and other brands, won a large settlement and an on-air apology from the ABC television network for a news story suggesting it manipulated nicotine content in its cigarettes.
R.J. Reynolds also quoted from a 1980 memo sent by a marketing executive to the chairman stating that market share among smokers aged 14 to 17 was falling while Philip Morris' share was growing.
"Hopefully our various planned activities that will be implemented this fall will aid in some way in reducing or correcting those trends," the official wrote.
Donohue described the memo as shorthand and said it in no way suggested Reynolds worked to sell cigarettes to teenagers. He said company data on young smokers was collected as a by-product of market research on adults.
The Food and Drug Administration issued new rules last summer meant to curb sales to underage smokers, but the industry is challenging the rules.
R.J. Reynolds said it was releasing the excerpts because it expected the memos and studies to be leaked and reported by journalists without full context.
"Cherry picked, leaked documents do not reflect the totality of our company's positions, strategies and marketplace efforts," Peggy Carter, a spokeswoman for RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., said in a statement.
Minnesota Attorney General Hubert Humphrey III said the company was misleading the public by complaining of alleged selective leaks by anti-tobacco lawyers.
"The vast majority of documents cannot be made public due to a protective order demanded by the tobacco industry," he said in a news release.
"If the tobacco industry truly wanted the public to know the whole truth, it would waive this protective order .... I challenge them to do so."
A trial in the Minnesota lawsuit is set for 1998, Humphrey spokesman Joe Loveland said.
Many personal computer makers this week will roll out flashy multimedia PCs designed around a new chip by Intel Corp. -- a development that is expected to give the consumer sector of the industry a much-needed boost.
Intel will officially launch its much-anticipated P55C microprocessor using its so-called MMX (multimedia extension) technology Wednesday and a slew of companies will unveil new consumer PCs, notebooks and desktops using the new chip, which will offer much faster performance.
The company said the new chip will offer more than just faster speeds on the new PCs, but a spokesman declined to give any further details.
"Instead of just raw performance ... you get a richer experience," said an Intel spokesman in Santa Clara, Calif.
International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp., Dell Computer Corp., Gateway 2000 Inc., Toshiba America Corp., Sony Corp. and many other firms are expected to unveil new high-end PCs simultaneously with Intel's announcment.
Most machines are expected to be priced over $3,000.
Intel said that an MMX-based PC would be more like a television, with sharper images, three-dimensional graphics, faster audio and television-like video. Other benefits include faster video teleconferencing and Internet access.
"As more and more people use PCs, the expectations are higher and higher, from what they see in movies and television," the Intel spokesman said.
"This moves the PC platform a little further along to media-rich applications. Our goal is to surpass the TV in terms of audio and video."
For example, he said, a user playing a video game on an MMX-based PC will feel as if he or she is in a video arcade.
"It's a tremendous kickoff to 1997," said Rod Schrock, a vice president of Compaq's Presario division.
"We are so excited about the new MMX processor that we redesigned the entire line of Presarios from the ground up. Customers are going to get a pretty dazzling experience."
Schrock declined to give any product specifics, but he said that Compaq will launch its new Presario consumer PCs with MMX in the same timeframe as Intel's announcement.
"It should provide an added boost to the demand for the new generation of PCs," Schrock added. "There was no major industry event in 1996, this year you have a new processor."
China issued tough new rules on the handling of blood products on Sunday in a move that follows the sale of HIV-tainted blood serum.
The official Xinhua news agency said the rules covered the production and distribution of blood products and set strict supervisory standards throughout the health industry.
It also said the 5,000-word ruling set harsh punishments for violators, though it gave no details of the regulations themselves and made no mention of the discovery last April of tainted blood products manufactured and sold in China.
But the news agency underscored the importance of the order by noting that it had been issued by the State Council, or cabinet, and signed by Premier Li Peng.
In a highly unusual move, China's Foreign Ministry admitted in October last year that some samples of blood product serum albumin made under the "Wolongsong" brand name were contaminated with HIV, or Human Immunodeficiency Virus, which can lead to AIDS.
China's Ministry of Public Health began a national drive to test all blood products after the discovery of the contaminated product in the southern province of Guangdong in April last year.
Health officials banned the sale of at least some types of the product and ordered the destruction of stockpiles.
Officials in Guangdong, contacted at the time of the Foreign Ministry announcement, declined to give any information on the manufacturer, explain how the product became tainted or say how much of it was on the market when the action was taken.
The number of reported HIV cases in China stood at 5,157 by the end of October last year.
But Chinese officials have quoted health experts as saying they believe the actual number was anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 as many cases go unreported.
A total of 133 people have been infected with AIDS in China, according to the official media.
China has been grappling with growing drug abuse and prostitution, and experts warn these two problems could increase the number of AIDS cases.
Apple Computer Inc. stock tumbled Monday after the company said it expected a loss of up to $150 million in the latest quarter, prompting even some of the company's most loyal customers to question its survival.
Apple shares fell $3.875 to $17.875, the lowest level since mid-July, as more than 16.8 million shares traded, making it the most active issue on Nasdaq.
Industry analysts, who had expected Apple to post a small loss in the normally strong Christmas quarter, said the loss made it harder for customers to justify buying a Macintosh, given serious questions about the company's finances.
"You can't dismiss this as a one-time issue," Montgomery Securities analyst Kurt King said. "It really does say something about Apple's long-term position in the consumer market."
The troubled computer maker, struggling for the past year to shore up its finances and rebuild its image, said late on Friday that weak demand for its Performa personal computers would lead to an operating loss of $100 million to $150 million in its first fiscal quarter ended in December.
The company also said it may need further restructuring aimed at cutting another $1 billion in costs, which could mean another round of cutbacks at Apple.
More damaging, the company's woes make it harder for customers -- particularly corporate technology managers -- to justify choosing a Mac over personal computers running Windows software from Microsoft Corp., buyers at the Macworld trade show said Monday.
"It's definitely a fight," said Donald Laird, a computer consultant who advises companies about technology purchases. "Very seldom do I go into a shop where they're as objective (about Apple's technology) as I'd like them to be."
Complicating matters is a new generation computer chip by industry giant Intel Corp., which the company expects to unveil on Wednesday. Analysts said the new multimedia chip should dramatically boost Intel sales and spur sales for PCs  powered by Microsoft software.
Experts said the perception that Apple was in serious financial trouble could keep potential customers away, leading to a spiral of bigger and bigger losses.
"It's frustrating" trying to convince customers they may be better off with a Mac, said Jeff Lauterette, a technical support engineer at EPI Systems, a big Macintosh dealer in Rockville, Md.
At a presentation Monday, Apple Chief Technical Officer Ellen Hancock assured big customers that Apple will concentrate on winning back big accounts now that the company has a clear technology strategy.
"We honestly do believe our lack of a (technology) strategy until a couple of weeks ago caused us the problem" of weak sales in the December quarter, she said. "We are ready to go back on the attack to tell (corporate customers) that we have excellent technology."
Last month Apple announced plans to buy Next Software Inc. for $400 million in a bid to update Apple's operating system.
News of the loss prompted several Wall Street analysts to stop recommending Apple's stock as an investment.
Bear Stearns Cos. Inc. cut its rating on Apple from hold to unattractive. Prudential Securities lowered its rating to hold from buy, according to a source at the brokerage house.
Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio is expected to outline his company's strategy on Tuesday to thousands of Macintosh customers and programmers at the Macworld show. The highlight of his speech was expected to be Apple's plan to revamp its fundamental Macintosh software with technology acquired as part of the Next acquisition.
Some Apple customers said any technology improvement might be too late.
"I've been an Apple supporter since early on and the Mac has made a difference in my life," said Don Barrs, principal at Wilton Manors Elementary school in Florida. But he said he was under growing pressure to buy Windows-based computers.
"I have to be realistic about what's best for our school district and our children," Barrs said.
Apple Computer Inc shares crumbled 17 percent on Monday as hope faded on Wall Street for a short-term turnaround in the computer maker's fortunes and further darkened the company's long-term outlook.
Several brokerages urged investors to dump the stock, with Wall Street analysts turning gloomy about the ability of Apple management to put the company's business strategies in order.
Apple fell four points to 17-3/4, and was the most actively traded Nasdaq issue with more than 10 million traded.  
The company said Friday it expected an operating loss of $100 to $150 million in the first quarter, ended December 27.
Apple blamed weak U.S. demand for its Performa consumer PC line and continued shortages of PowerBook notebook computers.
The company said these factors contributed to a 10 percent decline in December quarter revenues, versus the September quarter, when Apple reported $2.3 billion in revenues.
"You can't dismiss this as a one-time issue," Montgomery analyst Kurt King said. "It really does say something about Apple's long-term position in the consumer market." King said he maintained his hold rating on the stock.  
Beyond the earnings disappointment, analysts expressed concern over the impending onslaught of rival machines that will be based on new multimedia chip technology from Intel Corp and will run Microsoft Corp Windows software.
The latest financial disappointment is likely to deepen Apple's image problems among PC buyers, where widespread doubts have lingered about the company's ability to compete with rival PCs that run Windows software.  
In recent years, the distinctions separating Apple's easy-to-use Macintosh operating system from the more complex Microsoft Windows system have narrowed. The changes have led many consumers to abandon Apple for lower cost Intel-based machines that offer a greater variety of software programs.
There is also confusion over Apple's future operating system and whether it can introduce a new, distinctive system, based on the NeXT system, which it acquired last month.
Apple's latest earnings disappointment arrived just ahead of the company's annual in-gathering of Macintosh loyalists at the MacWorld trade show in San Francisco, which begins Monday.  
In a speech slated for Tuesday, Apple Chairman Gil Amelio was expected to chart the company's future course.
But Prudential's Young doubted whether Amelio could say anything to reignite enthusiasm for the stock.
Young said the speech simply comes too soon after Apple's acquisition of NeXT for Amelio to provide much concrete guidance on the company's future strategy.
"The problem is that he now has to start talking about futures, but he doesn't know enough now to be making this speech," he said.
"(Amelio) is not going to be able to say a whole lot about the technical plan, or what they are going to do to bring the new operating system to market," Young said.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736.
Voters in Chad, who showed little apparent enthusiasm for Sunday's election to end their much-delayed transition to democracy, face a long wait before they know the shape of their new national assembly.
"Provisional results are set for January 15 and final results for January 25 after approval by the court of appeal," the president of the Independent National Electoral Committee, Pascal Yaodamnadji, told Reuters.
Runoffs are scheduled for February 23.
Polling for the 125-seat assembly, which began last Thursday for nomads in the sprawling and volatile African country with a Moslem majority and lively southern Christian minority, passed off calmly with no reports of major incidents.
A total of 658 candidates from 49 parties stood for the assembly, which will convene on March 31 to end the former French colony's transition to democracy.
Chad has known coups, civil war or conflict with northern neighbour Libya for much of its life from independence in 1960.
President Idriss Deby, a former northern guerrilla leader, seized power in the arid nation in a 1990 French-backed coup.
After repeated electoral delays, he won a multi-party presidential election in July after a runoff against southern rival and fellow general Wadal Abdelkader Kamougue.
Almost 68 percent of voters took part in the first round of that poll, which followed a March constitutional referendum. Voter interest tailed off in the second round, which many opposition parties urged their supporters to boycott.
About 3.5 million of Chad's 6.4 million people were eligible to vote on Sunday but there was little enthusiasm for the poll in the capital, which accounts for 10 percent of all voters and where turnout appeared well down on previous polls.
Some opposition candidates denounced instances of fraud.
Former national assembly leader Jean Bawoyeu Alingue, a defeated presidential contender, cited three types of fraud.
"Electoral cards were copied, pre-stuffed envelopes were taken into booths by voters and nomads have been allowed to vote in an uncontrolled manner," he told Reuters.
The 30 or so international observers, many of whom were yet to return from monitoring polling in the provinces, were expected to report their findings on Wednesday.
British European Parliament member Michael McGowan praised the organisation of polling in the capital. "On the whole the elections seemed to me to be well-organised and thorough."
Deby's Patriotic Salvation Movement heads the 27-party Republican Front coalition. The opposition, which alleged fraud in the presidential poll, has a rival 17-party coalition.
Election issues tended to be local or ethnic but diplomats said all parties sought fair distribution of any wealth from oil, expected to come on stream by the year 2000.
The Czech ruling centre-right coalition agreed on Monday to name Vlasta Parkanova as justice minister, replacing Jan Kalvoda who resigned last month after he admitted to using an unattained "Doctor of Law" title.
But coalition leaders agreed to wait on the choice of a replacement for Kalvoda, who is chairman of a small right-wing junior coalition party, the Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA), in the more politically-sensitive post of deputy prime minister.
"We received an official proposal from the ODA for a new justice minister... as Doctor Parkanova. We approved this proposal by the ODA on the coalition level," Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, the head of the senior Civic Democratic Party (ODS), told a news conference.
After a meeting with his coalition partners Klaus said that Parkanova could be officially appointed by President Vaclav Havel as soon as Tuesday.
Parkanova, 45, a certified doctor of law, currently serves as a chief of staff at the Interior Ministry.
She would become the first woman to have a seat in the Prague government since the split of Czechoslovakia in 1993.
ODA vice chairman Karel Ledvinka said the coalition agreed to a request by his party to postpone nomination of the new deputy prime minister, who would lead the party in the tenuous minority cabinet, until after the party's congress in March.
Kalvoda's position as chairman of the pro-business ODA is also to be decided at the March party congress.
The ODA has four seats in the 16-member cabinet under a coalition agreement with the ODS and the centrist Christian Democrats (KDU-CSL), plus one of four deputy premierships.
Kalvoda and the KDU-CSL leader Josef Lux have fought heated policy battles with Klaus's party, which controls half of the cabinet, but the coalition remains the longest-running conservative government in post-Communist Europe.
Tensions have been heightened since June when the coalition lost its majority in the lower house of parliament.
Kalvoda, a parliamentary deputy and a cabinet member since the coalition was formed in 1992, was the fifth member of parliament who admitted using the title of Juris Doctor without actually having qualified for it.
Out of the other four fake doctors, only one has resigned her parliamentary seat.
Republic Industries Inc. Monday agreed to buy National Car Rental System Inc. for about $600 million in stock, another step into auto rentals that will also feed its growing used car business.
Republic, a diversified, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.-based company controlled by Florida billionaire Wayne Huizenga, said it would offer stock for Minneapolis-based National, owned by an investor group led by the former chief executive of Thrifty Car Rental.
Republic, which also owns waste management, electronic security and media assets, bought Alamo Rent-a-Car in November for $625 million in stock. The acquisitions would give it car-rental agencies with 230,000 cars in their fleets.
Industry analysts said the National deal would bolster Republic in the competitive car rental business and provide its AutoNation chain a steady supply of used cars for sale.
"The deals give Republic steady inventory," said analyst Jordan Hymowitz at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco.
The fledgling AutoNation chain and its rivals in the growing business for used cars just a few years old need big supplies of second-hand cars. AutoNation aims to have 80 outlets in place by 2000.
But the main source for used cars is the rental market, analysts said. Leased cars coming back from consumers for resale are usually streered by automakers' financing arms to dealers the automakers do business with.
National will also give Republic another avenue for growth in car rentals, analysts said. While Alamo rents mostly to vacationers and other consumers, National's target market is business customers.
National is owned by an investor group led by William Lobeck, the former chief executive officer of Thrifty Car Rental, who along with other National executives will sign employment agreements with Republic and manage National's daily operations, the companies said.
National has about 800 locations in North America with a fleet of about 100,000 vehicles in the United States.
Huizenga, who also owns the Florida Marlins baseball team and the Miami Dolphins football team, is seeking to build yet another fortune.
He is one of the few executives to have built two giant corporations -- he was a co-founder of Waste Management, now known as WMX Technologies Inc., and Blockbuster Video, which was sold to Viacom in 1994.
Meanwhile, transactions for rental car companies have picked up in recent months. Before Republic bought Alamo, HFS Inc. bought Avis for about $800 million.
Analysts said few big independent car-rental agencies remained, adding that neither Drivers Mart nor Car Max appeared interested in buying a rent-a-car business for their used-car outlets.
While the National deal would help ensure car supplies for AutoNation, the fledgling chain would not get much more muscle in dealings with Detroit automakers, analysts said.
"There's no such thing as a volume discount," said analyst Maryann Keller at Furman Selz in New York. "It makes no difference whether you're buying 1 million cars or 20."
Keller said Detroit automakers give discounts to big buyers such as car rental agencies but that the terms have grown more stringent. Agreements by automakers to buy back rental cars have also been drying up, she said.
"The fleet market is lower profit" for automakers, she said.
Republic stock jumped $1.875 to $32.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The $600 million acquisition of National Car Rental would give Republic Industries Inc inventory for its fledgling AutoNation used-car chain but little added purchasing power in Detroit.
"There's no such thing as a volume discount," said automobile-industry analyst Maryann Keller at Furman Selz in New York. "It makes no difference whether you're buying one million cars or 20."
Keller said the big Detroit manufacturers do give fleet discounts to buyers but the terms have been getting tougher.
Monsanto Co said Monday its pending acquisition of Holden's Foundation Seeds, a $1.0 billion deal that gives it access to the worldwide seed corn market, will dilute earnings for two or three years.
In the first year, dilution could be as much as $0.10 to $0.17 a share, Filippello said, but cautioned the number could be lower than that due to pending accounting issues.
"But by the end of the decade, this will be accretive even from an accounting standpoint," Nicholas Filippello, chief economist for Monsanto, said in a telephone interview.  
Variables in determining the amount of earnings dilution include charges Monsanto may take in the future related to the Holden's deal. Those charges may include write-offs of Holden's in-process research and development, which would reduce the amount of ongoing amortization from the deal.
Based on Monsanto's benchmark of measuring itself on an "economic value added" (EVA) basis, the acquisition is positive for the company, Filippello added.
"We are willing to accept some near-term dilution in (earnings per share) from an accounting standpoint if in fact we are creating value in a net added value sense," he said.  
EVA is derived by taking net income and subtracting a charge for the capital used to generate that income, Monsanto said in its 1995 annual report.
Earlier, Monsanto said it will buy Holden's,  Corn States Hybrid Service Inc and  Corn States International for up to $1.02 billion.
Filippello said Monsanto will pay up to $945.0 million for Holden's, which produces corn germplasm used by seed companies to create hybrid seeds. It will pay up to $75 million for Corn States and Corn States International, which are the exclusive worldwide marketing and sales representatives for Holden's.  
Both prices may later be reduced, Filippello added.
Analysts said Monsanto's acquisition of Holden's, which had been expected, is also a defensive move to block its competitors from gaining access to the seed company.
NatWest Securities analyst Mark Wiltamuth said he considers the planned acquisition of Holden's and Corn States "a strategic positive".
By buying Holden's, Monsanto gains an outlet for its genetic developments. Simply put, Monsanto can implant the genes it develops in the germplasm -- or parent seeds -- produced by Holden's.
Monsanto said more than 35 percent of the approximately 80 million acres of corn planted in the United Sates use genetic material developed by Holden's.
Filippello said the Corn States International acquisition also gives Monsanto access to some 300 million acres of corn worldwide.
The other positive for Monsanto is the ability to sell more of its flagship Roundup herbicide to farmers who plant genetically-enhanced seeds from Holden's. Monsanto has developed a gene that makes crops, like corn, resistant to use of its Roundup herbicide to kill weeds in the field.
Britain's Woolwich Building Society on Monday set the timetable for a three billion pounds ($5.1 billion) stock market flotation in July which will bring an average windfall of over 1,200 pounds to its members.
The mutually-owned building society, the third largest in the country with assets of more than 30 billion pounds, said qualifying customers would receive at least 450 free shares upon its conversion to public limited company (Plc) status.
The Woolwich said it expected a basic distribution of 450 free shares to around 2.57 million people, which includes qualifying employees and qualifying pensioners.
Chief executive John Stewart said the Woolwich would be among Britain's top 10 banks and would be included in the FT-SE 100 index of blue-chip shares.
"(The conversion and flotation) will give the Woolwich a corporate structure which will allow it to meet its strategic objectives by remaining an independent provider of a wide range of personal financial services," Stewart added.
The Woolwich said its financial advisers, investment banks Schroders and BZW, have made an historic valuation that puts its market capitalisation at between 2.96 and 3.38 billion pounds with a mid value of 3.17 billion had the conversion happened on December 20, 1996.
This represents a range of price per share of between 175 and 200 pence with a mid-price of 187.5 pence and is at the top end of market expectations, analysts said.
Rob Thomas, building society analyst at UBS, said the eventual flotation price was likely to use the fairly strong performance of Abbey National Plc, the only other building society to have floated, as a benchmark.
The Woolwich is one of four building societies -- traditionally mainly mortgage lenders but now expanding their role -- which plan stock market flotations in 1997.
They are led by Britain's largest mortgage lender, the Halifax, which is expected to be valued at around 10 billion pounds, the Alliance &amp; Leicester worth around 2.5 billion and the Northern Rock, which is expected to raise around one billion pounds.
The Woolwich will be protected from takeover for five years after flotation but, if proposed legislation goes through this year, it would lose protection if it buys a financial company or if 75 percent of its shareholders vote to waive it.
Banking analysts said the Woolwich would have to weigh up the pros and cons of losing its protected status. But to compete effectively in a congested market it would have to grow, especially in the life assurance and independent financial advice areas.
"The Woolwich may decide that the 75 percent rule still makes it very vulnerable and the best chance for long-term survival is to grow through acquisitions," Thomas said.
Stewart became chief executive last June after his predecessor Peter Robinson, architect of the flotation strategy, left amid allegations that he "misused the facilities" of the group, where he had worked for more than 30 years.
Stewart at once identified life insurance and fund management as gaps in the Woolwich armoury. He has ruled out a move into commercial or investment banking, stressing that the bank will specialise in personal financial services.
The Woolwich said the average distribution to members, including a variable element, would be 1,233 pounds, although the exact distribution would depend on how much people have in their accounts on the qualifying dates.
An additional handout of up to 2,000 free shares will be made to savers who have been with the society for more than two years.
($1=.5899 Pound)
Healthcare group Smith &amp; Nephew Plc reassured analysts on Monday that it was set to report a solid performance for 1996, despite continuing tough market conditions and the impact of a strong pound.
The company, which is due to announce full-year results on March 4, told an analysts' meeting that little had changed from its last update in October, when it reported that operating conditions and price pressures in the key U.S. market remained difficult.
Analysts who attended Monday's meeting said Smith &amp; Nephew, which reported a 7.4 percent rise in first-half sales to 540 million stg, was likely to report an increase in full-year sales of between six and seven percent from the 1.03 billion stg achieved in 1995.
They said there were also signs that profit margins could have turned out better in the second half of the year than the first.
Another positive aspect of the meeting was a signal that sales in the highly competitive U.S. market, which accounts for around 40 percent of turnover, had seen a two percent improvement in the second half of the year after gaining just one percent in the first half.
Prices in the U.S. for Smith &amp; Nephew's products in areas including orthopaedic implants and wound management are being forced down by increasingly powerful health providers.
Shares in the company, which had been trading close to their 12-month lows of 174 3/4, rose 4 3/4 pence to 182 3/4 in early afternoon trading. The stock had reached record highs of 217 1/2 pence in June amid hopes for a novel skin replacement product, Dermagraft, currently being developed with Advanced Tissue Sciences Inc of the U.S.
BZW analyst Steve Plag said the shares had taken a "phenomenal pounding" in recent months as over-optimistic predictions for Dermagraft had been reined back, and had taken some support on Monday from the absence of bad news.
"There are signs that the second-half revenue performance was a bit stronger, which is encouraging, and there was some reassurance on Dermagraft, but the full picture (on Dermagraft) won't be available until April."
Another analyst, who asked not to be identified, said Smith &amp; Nephew had been "very upbeat" about the the skin replacement product, which would initially be targeted at foot ulcers.
"I think Dermagraft is potentially a very significant product for the company," he added.
Analysts said the technology, which enables cells derived from babies' foreskins to grow on a naturally-absorbable scaffold across wounds, could add up to 20 pence per share to Smith &amp; Nephew's value if it succeeded.
SocGen analyst Alyson Coates said she was happy with the current value of the shares, which reflected a balance between limited growth prospects in the next 12 to 18 months and "the promise of the pipeline," including Dermagraft.
SocGen believes that in addition to Dermagraft and similar high-tech products, Smith &amp; Nephew will use its financial strength for acquisitions to help lift growth above the "pedestrian" in the medium term.
Coates said she might shave 1 million stg off her full-year pre-tax profit forecast of 185 million stg to take account of the impact of sterling's strength on the group in the last three months of 1996.
BZW's Plag said full-year pre-tax profit forecasts in the range of 183 to 186 million stg "would be sensible."
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Magna Group Inc's planned acquisition of Homeland Bankshares Corp is not likely to alter the St. Louis-based bank holding company's own potential to be acquired, analysts said.
"It certainly doesn't make them any less attractive or likely as a takeover candidate," said Steven Schroll, a banking industry analyst at Piper Jaffray.
Magna is among several Missouri-based banks considered by analysts to be likely acquisition targets.  
"I don't think it probably changes the company either way too much" in terms of takeover prospects, said Joseph Stieven, a banking analyst at Stifel Nicolaus.
Still, with Iowa's limit on how much of the state's total deposits a single banking company can hold, Magna's acquisition of Iowa-based Homeland could prevent some potential buyers from swallowing up Magna, analysts noted.
"It could complicate it, because Iowa does have relatively low state cap," Stieven said. "But it doesn't necessarily mean it was done as a defensive measure."  
Schroll's initial reading of the proposed deal is that it will add to Magna's earnings in 1997, the year the deal is expected to close.
"We believe it could be 15 cents accretive, maybe more," Schroll said, cautioning that this was a preliminary view of the deal.
Magna said in a news release the deal would be accretive within 12 months.
Other analysts noted that Homeland has a relatively high ratio of equity to assets and said paying about 1.65 times book value for Homeland might be a bit expensive. Homeland's ratio of equity to assets was 10.79 percent in the second quarter.
The price of "165 (percent) of book could be pretty generous if you've got an overcapitalized bank," said Ben Crabtree, banking analyst at Dain Bosworth.
"It sounds like a pretty big price," agreed Stieven.
Magna was down 1/4 at 24-1/2 Monday afternoon, while Homeland was up 2-1/4 at 36-1/4.
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
Increased confidence means a third of British companies expect to raise property holdings over the next six months, according to a survey by the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and property consultants Grimley.
"Business confidence has strengthened markedly compared with six months ago and companies expect a further pick-up in business, led by domestic demand," said Sudhir Junankar, associate director of economic analysis at the CBI.
"With profitability set to grow faster over the next six months, the upturn in the commercial property market is becoming more firmly based," he added.
The six-monthly survey, which canvassed 645 private sector firms across the range of sectors and regions in Britain, found 32 percent of companies expect to increase property holdings, 26 percent see a reduction and 41 percent do not envisage a change.
"We expect a steady improvement rather than a dramatic surge in property requirements. The net balance on this survey is plus six percent over the next six months," Stuart Morley, Grimley's head of research, said at a briefing on the survey. This, he said was the highest result of the five surveys so far.
The report singled out the distribution, metal manufacturing and chemical processing, transport and communications sectors as those likely to see the largest increases in property holdings while over the last six months the largest increases have been in the retail sector.
Larger companies are most likely to increase their property holdings, reversing a declining trend over the last six months. This, said Morley, could mark the end of the large-scale restructurings which such companies have been undergoing.
"Large companies have gone through a period of restructuring. This suggests that period has come to an end. They are now looking to expand their holdings," he said.
Morley said companies were also "noticeably more optimistic about employment prospects than they were in previous surveys", adding this was "now feeding through into increased property demand", and rents were rising fastest in the retail sector.
Retail was most active in terms of change of holdings and the survey said this should continue. "Not only did this sector see the largest net increase in property holdings over the past six months, it is also expecting the largest net increase."
Areas where growth in demand for property is expected to be greatest are the north west of the country, followed by Northern Ireland, Greater London and Scotland while holdings are expected to fall at a greater rate in the south east,
Town centres, with government encouragement, have become more attractive with 50 percent of the extra retail space in these areas rather than out-of-town.
"This shows a gradual realisation that government policies are beginning to bite, a gradual realisation of the encouragement towards town centres where more companies will be looking for space," Morley said.
Demand for office space is particularly strong in town centres, although the largest companies are still seeking out-of-town floorspace.
According to the survey the main reason for companies to spend capital on property over the next six months "is the need to expand capacity" ahead of spending to replace property or to increase efficiency.
The main constraints companies see to capital expenditure on property are inadequate net returns, difficulty in disposing of property and a shortage of suitable property, the survey found.
Australia's century-old steel maker, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (BHP), has been warned it risks falling behind global rivals unless it restructures its big, ageing plants and maps out a clear offshore strategy.
BHP Steel's long-term strategy came under the spotlight on Monday after credit rating agency Standard and Poor's wrote in a steel industry review that BHP faced its toughest test yet as it positioned itself to tackle rapidly developing Asian markets.
S&amp;P's comments, made in the latest edition of its journal CreditFocus, comes as Taiwan's An Feng Steel Co Ltd plans to build a A$1.4 billion steel mill in Australia in what has been termed a "wake-up call" for BHP.
"A wake-up call is not a bad way of looking at it," a corporate analyst told Reuters, describing the competition to supply steel into Asian economies as intense.
"It's not that they (BHP) have been flat-footed; it's just that there are (bigger) global players out there with billions of dollars to set these things up," he added.
An Feng and its little known minority Australian partner, Kingstream Resources NL, launched last Friday a plan to build a new-technology steel mill expected to produce annually 2.4 million tonnes of steel slab for mainly Asian consumption.
The move has been seen as a direct challenge to BHP, which dominates the Australian market with steel products made from old-technology plants on the country's east and south coasts. The youngest of its three big steel mills opened 56 years ago. These old mills also supply raw steel for BHP's more modern offshore operations, which have so far focused on downstream steel mills in Asia making higher-value products tailored for such industries as car-making and construction.
BHP produces 636 tonnes of steel per worker per year using predominantly coal-fired blast furnaces, but by the year 2000 new-technology mills using electric arc furnaces will enable steel operators to reach 1,000 tonnes per worker, S&amp;P said.
"In many respects, BHP Steel's future earnings quality will depend on the successful implementation of this international growth strategy and the critical selection of steel-making technology for future domestic expansion," S&amp;P analyst Brad Scott wrote in the January edition of CreditFocus.
BHP is expected by May to announce the results of a year-long review of the steel division's long-term strategy, begun last year after the group reported a dive in steel profits and a big writedown of its Newcastle mill near Sydney.
BHP has since indicated it is prepared to close the 81-year-old Newcastle mill if need be.
Speculation about the closure of Newcastle, and with it the loss of thousands of jobs, has prompted a parliamentary inquiry into the future of Australia's steel industry -- virtually a synonym for BHP, which supplies 75 percent of the local market.
BHP's local dominance and its production costs, still low in global terms, will give it some comfort over the next few years, but the so-called "Big Australian" must rationalise its assets at home to realise its long-term goals in Asia, analysts said.
"BHP will need to define its domestic investment vision over that period or risk falling behind the competitiveness of its global competitors," S&amp;P's Scott said.
A stock analyst suggested BHP may even resolve to abandon raw-steel making capacity and begin buying it instead from cheaper producers, but a BHP Steel spokesman doubted this.
"I would not see that," spokesman John Devers told Reuters. "We have got the benefits of relatively low-cost raw materials on our doorstep and good transport arrangements and energy."
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1421
China will avoid bold moves in tackling its ailing state enterprises as it focuses on stability ahead of this year's crucial Communist Party congress, analysts said on Monday.
They said policy makers would err on the side of caution in a year billed by Beijing as one of the most significant of the communist era.
"Reform of state enterprises is the nation's biggest economic problem but it is an extremely difficult one to solve," said economist Cheng Xiusheng of the Development Research Centre of the State Council, or cabinet.
"I would not expect any major breakthroughs this year."
As China sheds the vestiges of a centrally planned economy, it wants state-owned companies, which have grown fat under government nurturing, to be leaner and better able to compete in the marketplace.
About 75 percent of state firms are losing money. Losses surged to about 69 billion yuan ($8.3 billion) in the first 10 months of last year, a rise of 45 percent over the same period of 1995, officials have said.
Halting those losses would mean shedding much of the workforce and in some cases making use of bankruptcy laws to dissolve companies.
China's rulers have vowed to push ahead with reforms of the state sector but analysts are betting that the scale of any changes will be limited.
Analysts note that China has set a target of keeping urban unemployment around three percent this year, little changed from the official figure issued in the recent past.
"The problem is there is no social safety net," said a Western diplomat.
China has no real unemployment insurance system and retirement schemes cover only a fraction of the working public.
As most social welfare benefits stem from the employer, the loss of a job could have a huge impact on the individual.
On a wider scale it could mean social unrest.
"The Chinese realise where the problem lies," said the diplomat. "The trick is being able to make tough political decisions."
That is unlikely this year as China's leaders prepare for the party congress that will set policies over the medium term.
"No one wants to go into that meeting with the threat of social unrest," said another diplomat.
Beijing is also loath to take risks as it awaits the recovery of Hong Kong on July 1 after more than 150 years of British rule. It wants a smooth handover.
Some economists had hoped communist leaders would turn their attention to the deep-rooted problems of the state sector this year after Beijing effectively declared victory in its other major campaign -- the battle against inflation.
China wrestled inflation down to six percent last year from 14.8 percent in 1995 and a communist-era high of more than 21 percent in 1994, according to official data.
Economic leaders were confident enough inflation had been licked to allow state-set prices for postal rates and local telephone calls -- long held at subsidised levels -- to rise sharply last month.
But economists said that this year at least, Beijing would prefer to continue with some of its subsidies rather than pay the social cost of putting ailing companies out of business.
China has revived a call by Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin to wipe out poverty before the end of the century in a bid to placate its backward hinterland, analysts said.
The text of a speech Jiang made in September calling for more funds to fight poverty was splashed across front pages of major newspapers on Monday.
The coverage was aimed partly at bolstering the Communist Party's standing in impoverished but politically sensitive regions, one Beijing-based Western diplomat said.
"It shows that the party leadership has not forgotten the poor," said the diplomat, who asked not to be identified.
The reports were also timed to show concern ahead of the Lunar New Year, China's most important holiday, analysts said.
Chinese leaders traditionally make highly publicised trips to poor areas to hand out gifts before the holiday which this year begins on February 7.
"The poor can have a happy Lunar New Year, but after the holidays, life will still be difficult," one Chinese analyst said.
"The gap between the rich and poor is becoming wider and there's more bitterness."
China's eastern coastal provinces have boomed under nearly two decades of economic reform that have allowed some areas to get rich faster than others. Provinces in central and western China have lagged badly.
Beijing fears that the widening gap between rich and poor could spark social unrest and undermine its grip on power.
Analysts said that was a major concern ahead of a crucial Communist Party congress scheduled for later this year and expected to set the course of national policy over the medium term.
"The scale of poverty relief will be bigger this year," the Chinese analyst said.
More people were in need of aid after being laid off from loss-making or insolvent state enterprises, he said.
"They're playing up a 1996 speech to show the government is earnestly concerned about the problem and trying to do something about it," the analyst said.
In the speech, Jiang urged the nation to "gnaw the hard bone" of poverty by pouring more funds into eliminating the problem by the end of the century.
China says it reduced the number of people living in poverty by five million in 1995 but about 65 million people are still struggling to get by with incomes under the official poverty line of 530 yuan ($64) a year.
The central government currently spends 10.8 billion yuan a year on poverty relief and Beijing has pledged a further 1.5 billion yuan to build roads and water facilities in impoverished areas.
During an inspection tour of some of China's poorest regions last September, Jiang tried to resurrect communist revolutionary fervour to fight poverty.
He exhorted villagers and officials to resurrect the "glorious tradition" of the revolution that won the civil war for the communists in 1949.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Boeing Co. took orders for a record 717 jets valued at $53 billion last year for a 64 percent share of the world market, company officials said Tuesday, adding that this year should be as good or better.
Figures compiled by Boeing show the Seattle-based aerospace giant had net orders for 559 airplanes with a "catalog" value of $42.8 billion after excluding cancellations and conversion.
That compared with 301 jets worth $21.6 billion for Boeing's European rival Airbus Industrie, which took a 32 percent share of the market.
McDonnell Douglas Corp., which Boeing has agreed to acquire, took net orders for 38 jets valued at $2.2 billion for a 3 percent share of the market for airplanes with 100 seats or more.
"Our customers put us on top again in 1996 because of the superior value of our complete family of airplanes," Boeing commercial airplane group President Ron Woodard said. "Our goal is to remain No. 1."
Woodard told reporters he expected 1997 to be as strong or stronger and said 1998 could see orders continue to roll in at a strong level as the international airline industry expands after the long downturn of the early 1990s.
"Airplanes are flying extremely full right now," Woodard said. "The orders we've seen to date are still catching up with what is a reasonable level given the demand.... It looks to us to be a pretty sustained, healthy cycle."
Boeing's order book went far beyond analyst expectations or the previous peak years of the late 1980s.
"It's an unbelievable year," said Paul Nisbet, analyst at JSA Research. "Nobody expected that at the beginning of the year.
Boeing's previous best year for total orders was 1990, the year the 777 was launched, when it took orders for 483 jets valued at $41.4 billion.
Calculating the order book each year is something of a public-relations exercise as airplane orders are frequently revised, canceled or converted.
For example, Boeing's total is comprised mainly of firm orders, but the manufacturer also included its massive $6.5 billion order from AMR Corp.'s American Airlines which was announced but not signed.
An Airbus spokesman said the European consortium did not include such "commitments" for an additional 172 airplanes received last year such as USAir Inc.'s stated intention to buy 120 jets worth at least $5 billion.
Nisbet said despite the gamesmanship, it seemed clear Boeing is on the way to its goal of a two-thirds share of the market, up from its historical 60 percent level.
Airbus will have about one-third of the market as virtually the only other player, assuming Boeing wins federal approval for its plan to absorb McDonnell Douglas, including its commercial jet operations.
The Airbus spokesman, David Venz, said the four-nation consortium still hoped to achieve its stated goal of a 50 percent market share around the turn of the century.
Airbus officials confirmed Tuesday they were negotiating with South Korean firms to help finance its planned A3XX jumbo jet, which would break the stranglehold on the lucrative top end of the market now held by Boeing's 747 jumbo jet.
Woodard said the business case for a new large jet was very difficult to make because of predictions the trans-Pacific market will "fragment" into less heavily traveled point-to-point routes rather than routes between the largest markets.
He noted that Boeing has not yet been able to drum up sufficient customer interest even to launch a stretch version of its 747, which would presumably be less expensive to develop than an all-new airplane.
Boeing delivered 218 airplanes last year, only slightly higher than the 206 delivered in 1995, when production was hampered by a 10-week strike.
Analyst Bill Whitlow of Pacific Crest Securities said he expected Boeing to deliver some 360 jets this year and 430 in 1998, based on announced increased in the company's production rates.
House Banking Committee chairman Jim Leach introduced a bill on Tuesday aimed at remaking the regulatory landscape for banking and other financial services in the United States.
A similiar bill Leach introduced in the previous Congress foundered last June amid opposition from the insurance industry and House Democrats.  
Analysts have said this year's bill might have a better chance of passage, but that was before Leach decided to oppose Newt Gingrich's reelection as Speaker of the House, a move that could turn the leadership against his bill.
"This bill provides expanded powers for the banking, securities and insurance industries," Leach said in a statement. "The ultimate beneficiaries of this legislation, however, are consumers."  
"Not only will there be more products available to banking customers who are looking to maximize their savings, but efficiencies should lower industry costs and therefore costs to consumers," Leach said.
If passed, the bill would break down the legal barriers enacted after the Great Depression between banks, securities firms and insurance companies.
Bank regulators have already begun eroding the barriers for banks, putting pressure on Congress to level the playing field, analysts said.  
The Federal Reserve voted Dec 20 to allow bank subsidiaries to garner a greater share of revenue from underwriting activity. And a month earlier, the Comptroller of the Currency's office said it would allow banks to enter an array of non-bank markets.
Leach said his bill would repeal Section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act and amend Section 32 to allow for the merger of commercial and investment banks.  
Bank subsidiaries would be allowed to engage directly in securities dealing and other activities considered "part of and incidental to" banking. Affiliates of bank holding companies, would be allowed to engage in insurance activities as principal, agent or broker.
The bill would also abolish the federal charter for thrifts while grandfathering existing thrift holding companies. National thrifts would have the option of transferring to a national or state bank charter or a state savings and loan charter.
The Iowa Republican's bill would continue to prohibit commercial companies outside the finance sector from owning banks.
The bill was also sponsored by three other Republican members of the Banking Committee: Rep Marge Roukema of New Jersey, Mike Castle of Delaware and Rick Lazio of New York.
The full committee will hold hearings on the bill and any related legislation in early March, Leach said.
The text of Leach's bill is available under the "daily update" section of the Banking Committee's World Wide Web site, http://www.house.gov/banking/.
((202-898-8312))
General Instrument Corp is setting goals for NextLevel Systems Inc -- the lead business to come out of a three-way corporate break-up -- of 35-45 percent annual operating income growth and 22-25 percent annual sales growth on operating margins of 10-12 percent.
Those growth rates could be even higher this year, General Instrument chief executive Richard Friedland said in an interview with Reuters on Tuesday, adding he sees stock price gains ahead for all three firms being formed in the break-up -- NextLevel, CommScope Inc and General Semiconductor Inc.
"I'd look to CommScope and General Semiconductor to increase at above-average rates in the eight to 10 percent return range, maybe more. I see NextLevel Systems doubling over the next year to 18 months," Friedland said.
Shares in General Instrument were up 1/4 to 22-7/8 Tuesday after the Chicago-based company announced a three-way split designed primarily to unlock the share value of NextLevel.
For CommScope, to be built on the world's largest coaxial cable business, Friedland said management's goals are 18 to 20 percent annual sales growth and 16 to 17 percent operating income growth with operating margins of 16 to 17 percent.
For General Semiconductor, to be formed from General Instrument's electronic component manufacturing operations, goals are 10 to 11 percent operating income growth on annual sales growth of 14-16 percent and operating margins of 20-21 percent, Friedland told analysts at a meeting Tuesday.
Under the plan, General Instrument shareholders will get one share in each of the new companies for each General Instrument share held, Friedland said.
"We may have to do a reverse split to comply with New York Stock Exchange rules," he said, adding closing of the transaction is seen by July.
No layoffs or hiring are planned. "There are no staff actions contemplated as a result of the transaction," he said.
General Instrument has primary goals in the restructuring, Friedland said. One is to unlock the value of the businesses that will comprise NextLevel, which analysts said has been held back by General Instrument's other segments.
"Electronic conglomerates are not looked at very favorably these days," said Michael Geran, industry analyst at the Pershing Division of Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette.
The other goal, Friedland said, has to do with General Instrument's heritage as part of the cable television industry -- a legacy that has overshadowed its newer technologies.
"We're going to continue to service the heck out of the cable base, but we're also getting into provision of dial tone and data. We need to break out of that mold General Instrument has been in of being a cable supplier," Friedland said.
He said the company decided to proceed with the break-up because it showed in 1996 that it could meet its business objectives, after failing to do so in years past. "We've made that transition from development to deployment," he said.
Deprived of cash flows thrown off by the CommScope and General Semiconductors businesses, NextLevel will fund growth two ways. "We do have a lot of visibility to cash flow in NextLevel Systems now that we have the products going out the door," he said. "So we feel that, while NextLevel Systems may be slightly cash negative in '97, even our downside scenarios say we have more than adequate capabilities."
In addition, he said, most of General Instrument's debt will be loaded onto CommScope and General Semiconductor, which can afford to service it. "That leaves CommScope and General Semiconductor in fine shape in terms of their capital structure because they do generate the cash to pay this debt off in the near-term," he said.
Ailing Union Plc, formerly a pillar of the London money market scene, could be broken up to release shareholder value after the company said it would not pay a final dividend for 1996, analysts said on Tuesday.
They said a buyer might be found for Union's profitable fees and commission businesses to break them away from the loss making trading division which has been hard-hit by changes in the money market.
"Union has lurched from crisis to crisis in the past few years," said one analyst who declined to be named.
"It could be that they have come to the conclusion that it's time to salvage what they can for shareholders."
Formerly known as Union Discount and with famously palatial offices in Cornhill in London's financial heartland, Union has had limited success in its struggle to diversify away from its traditional role as a discount house in the mysterious and highly cyclical and volatile workings of the money market.
Forays into medical equipment leasing and equities market-making, in the shape of Winterflood Securities, ended in disposals and the years have seen Union shrink to a shadow of its former self with a market value of only 25 million pounds.
Now, Union says the Bank of England's plan to remove the exclusive right of the seven discount houses to deal directly with the Bank in its liquidity operations will "have a significant impact on the group's future."
As a consequence, it said that Advance Corporation Tax (ACT), which it had intended to carry forward on its books, would now have to be written off.
It gave no figures but said this would rule out the payment of a final dividend for 1996.
It also said that it would not receive any profit contribution in the 1996 year from a venture to sell equity index options trading software in Canada.
Analysts said they had expected Union to hold its full year payout at three pence per share, with 1.5 pence coming in the second half.
Union has said that it wants to develop its fee earning businesses and move away from a dangerous dependence on trading.
The fee and commission businesses include the Union CAL futures and foreign exchange broking, liquidity fund manager Union Fund Management and Cornhill Commercial Services, which provides project finance advice and consultancy.
Late last year the two "discount houses", Gerrard &amp; National and King &amp; Shaxon, merged but with them, the money market side of the business takes a back seat compared to private-client stockbroking and fund management.
Union shares closed 12 pence lower at 81-1/2, having collapsed to 73p at one point.
Directors at Union were not immediately available for comment.
Morgan Grenfell Asset Management, the fund management arm of Germany's Deutsche Bank AG, said on Tuesday trading would resume on Thursday in its three European funds suspended earlier this week.
The three funds -- the 788 million pound ($1.23 billion)  MG European Growth Trust, the 137 million MG Europa and the 444 million Dublin-listed MG European Capital Growth -- were suspended pending investigation into what DMG called "possible irregularities centring on certain unquoted securities."
MGAM said fund managers will meet their liabilities "in respect of any irregularities identified in the course of the investigation into the three funds."
Britain's Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) has said it is investigating the management of the funds in conjunction with MGAM.
A spokeswoman for IMRO said it had been working hard with MGAM to remove investors in the three funds from the state of limbo they had been in since Monday when dealings were suspended.
IMRO said it was far too early to tell when the investigation into the funds would be complete.
The investigation is thought to centre on the level of unquoted securities in the fund and their valuation. These include stock in some high-tech Scandinavian companies.
The company said its parent bank, Deutsche, has bought some of the securities in the funds for its own account with a view to protecting investors' interests. It said that after taking this action "the prices at which the funds recommence dealing should not be affected by such irregularities".
Industry sources said Deutsche Bank may have spent around 150 million stg buying securities for its own account and thus removing them from the funds.
The sources said the theory behind the action was that, with the suspect securities removed, the funds should resume dealing at prices close to where they were suspended.
But the 150 million pounds spent by Deutsche may not be lost because the stock will have a certain value which remains to be set.
MGAM said enquiries centre only on the three funds and that dealing in all other Morgan Grenfell investment funds are unaffected.
MGAM confirmed that Peter Young the manager of two of the funds -- MG European Growth Trust and MG European Capital Growth -- has been suspended and said he has been replaced by Stuart Mitchell who until February 1996 was manager of its offshore MG European Profund.
Industry sources said the market will be relieved that MGAM has moved quickly to quell speculation and return the funds to an even keel but said confidence in MGAM may take longer to restore.
Shares in Canadian waste and transportation firm Laidlaw Inc soared on Tuesday as investors and analysts applauded major moves in ambulance services and waste management worth over $2 billion.
While Laidlaw's stock hit new heights on the Toronto Stock Exchange, chief executive officer James Bullock said the company is poised for strong growth with two huge deals announced after the market closed on Monday.
In a bid to become North America's top ambulance operator, Laidlaw plans to acquire Colorado-based American Medical Response Inc in a $1.12 billion cash deal and merge it with its California-based MedTrans ambulance services unit.
In the other transaction, Laidlaw has signed a letter of intent to sell its South Carolina-based Environmental Services unit for $1 billion in cash, shares and debt to Rollins Environmental Services Inc of Delaware.
Laidlaw will own 66-percent of a new combined company, Laidlaw Environmental Services Inc., which will be the dominant player in North American hazardous waste management.
The moves came a few weeks after Burlington, Ontario-based Laidlaw completed the $1.65 billion sale of its solid waste management business to Allied Waste Industries Inc of Arizona.
Laidlaw's class B stock closed up C$1.80 ($1.33) at a 52-week high of C$18 ($13) in heavy turnover of 9.3 million shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Laidlaw's class A stock improved C$1.45 ($1.06) to a new high of C$17.95 ($13.23).
"We've got a (share price) target level of around C$19 ($14) and C$20 ($15) for the year and it will probably go higher when the dust settles," said Ira Katzin, an investment advisor with RBC Dominion Securities.
AMR jumped 6-3/8 to close at 39-3/8 on the New York exchange, while Rollins Environmental added 1/2 at 2-1/2.
Analysts said the Rollins deal will further consolidate a fragmented industry and may improve hazardous waste prices which have been depressed in the past four to five years.
The AMR acquisition will also boost Laidlaw's presence in the fast-growing healthcare transportation area.
"Strategically it is quite wise," Bunting Warburg Inc. analyst Ted Larkin said in a telephone interview.
"The highest growth potential is with their transportation companies. They are also able to partially spinoff the hazardous waste operations and also allow that company to regain a profile by listing on the New York Stock Exchange," Larkin said.
In a note to clients, Lehman Brothers analyst Jeff Kessler said the $40 a share offer for AMR is fair and he recommended investors tender their shares.
With combined annual revenues of about $1.3 billion, the new AMR will hold a 14 percent share of the $10 billion ambulance industry. It also gives Laidlaw access to related medical transport services which are a $30 billion market.
Bullock said AMR will immediately boost Laidlaw's earnings, but he declined to give a specific forecast.
Larkin bumped his profit forecast for Laidlaw in the 1997 fiscal year ended August to $0.71 a share from $0.70 per share. He also revised his 1998 forecast up to $0.88 per share from the low eighties.
Some analysts raised concerns that anti-trust issues may hamper the AMR deal, but Bullock said he does not foresee any problems with regulators.
The transaction with Rollins Environmental will be neutral to Laidlaw's earnings in the near term while operations are consolidated.
Bullock said staff levels may be reduced by between 15-20 percent and 20 facilities may be closed, leaving about 100 facilities in the merged firm. The integration will yield more efficient operations and savings of US$75 million annually.
British building materials group Blue Circle Industries Plc produced tentative signs of a turnaround at its troubled European heating operations on Tuesday, and promised a ten-fold increase in heating profits over the next three years.
The company also launched a blistering attack on the government, blaming "disgracefully low" infrastructure spending for a slide in its British cement sales.
The recovery in heating, together with continued strong performances in the highly profitable Chile and Malaysia markets and the USA, helped lift Blue Circle's interim pretax profit by 11.7 percent to 116.3 million pounds ($181.5 million), at the top end of analysts' forecasts, with the interim dividend rising by 6 percent to 4.25 pence.
Against a background of a weak stock market Blue Circle shares closed down 5 pence at 372 pence.
The heating operations, which are undergoing a major restructuring focused on France, Germany and Britain, posted operating profits of nine million pounds in the six months to June, up from just 100,000 pounds a year before.
But Britain's biggest cement producer also warned that it saw "no significant signs of recovery" in the key British cement market, and said it expected 1996 sales to be down four percent from 1995's depressed performance.
Ian McKenzie, chief executive of the group's British cement business Blue Circle Cement, blamed poor housing starts and low government infrastructure spending, warning that if the underspend continued "the damage done to the competitiveness of British industry would be very great indeed."
Worries about cement were offset by strength overseas and signs of early progress in turning around heating, which encouraged analysts to maintain full-year profit forecasts.
Chief executive Keith Orrell-Jones told Reuters the group's aim of achieving annual cost savings of 25 million pounds at the division is "well up to programme," with nine million pounds coming through this year and the full benefit seen in 1997.
Orrell-Jones said he was confident Blue Circle could achieve a 15 percent return on its 600 million pound investment in the struggling division, or some 90 million pounds, within three years, despite sluggishness in Germany and France.
"We are disappointed with the performance of the economies of both those countries, and we think it is not likely to ease very rapidly," said Orrell-Jones, adding "that is why we set a three-year time horizon" for recovery.
With gearing a miniscule 1.5 percent at the end of June, Orrell-Jones said Blue Circle was actively looking for opportunities to expand.
"We'd like to grow our cement business: it depends on where the opportunities crop up. In the U.S. it's a question of waiting for the right opportunity and the right time in the cycle," he said.
Blue Circle is "actively looking in South-East Asia, and we are taking a very careful look at India," he said, adding that it was also interested in expanding its south American operations beyond Chile and into Argentina.
($1=.6406 Pound)
The Czech government delayed payments and forced some early collections in order to allow it to claim its fourth straight budget surplus in 1996, Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik said on Tuesday.
Kocarnik told a news conference that it was not yet clear whether the 1996 budget balancing measures and a slowdown in forecast economic growth would require cuts in 1997 spending.
The 1996 budget showed a 419 million crown ($15.4 million) surplus on revenues of 482.797 billion crowns while expenditure totalled 482.378 billion, according to finance ministry figures which are still subject to revision.
The surplus came as a shock to many after the government said in December that it was trying to hold an expected deficit to around one billion crowns.
Kocarnik said the government took 650 million crowns in early repayment on credit to the Deposit Insurance Fund, and froze one billion crowns in infrastructure investment to help the 1996 budget.
"This investment was reallocated to the following years," he said, without elaborating.
He added that ministries were also asked to save as much as possible in December, and banks Ceska Sporitelna a.s. and IPB a.s. agreed to delay their receipt of 800 million crowns in state support on housing loans.
Both banks are partially privatised, but the state still holds major stakes in each.
Kocarnik said that final 1996 result might still show a deficit since bills will keep coming until January 15.
He noted that the 1995 budget surplus ended at a revised 7.2 billion crowns from the finance ministry's originally reported 8.6 billion crowns, after various revisions.
Kocarnik repeated his committment to keep this year's budget balanced as well.
"It is early to talk about corrections (in 1997 spending) now, we do not know the final 1996 figures yet, but if they (cuts) will be needed, I will of course propose them," he said.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, who calls balanced budgets the "alpha and omega" of his government, has praised the figures as a sign of the country's continued fiscal responsibility.
In the autumn, the government made across the board spending cuts to avoid a forecast 9.3 billion crown shortfall, caused by high-than-expected spending, slow repayments on credits to Russia, and lower than expected tax revenue.
The 1996 budget was originally approved as a balanced budget totalling 497.6 billion crowns, but autumn spending cuts knocked the forecast expenditure down to 491 billion crowns.
Parliament approved a fifth straight balanced budget plan in December, with both expenditures and revenues forecast at 549.1 billion crowns in 1997.
But the 1997 budget was based on economic growth of 5.4 percent, and many independent analysts have forecast growth for this year at under five percent, after growth between 4.0 and 4.5 percent for the whole of 1996.
Many have voiced concern that slower than expected economic growth might force the government to consider major changes in the 1997 budget to keep Klaus's budget record entact. -- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003 ($1=27.22 Czech Crown)
Approval of Eli Lilly &amp; Co's new anti-schizophrenia drug, Zyprexa, is expected to come soon from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, analysts said.
Marketing clearance for the drug, known generically as olanzapine, would put Lilly in the front of a parade of new anti-schizophrenia medications coming on the U.S. market.
"We expect approval yet this year ... There's been no hint of any issues" from the FDA that might cause delay, said Lilly spokesman Edward West.
Wall Street analysts said approval could come this month.  
The FDA has not scheduled an advisory committee hearing for Zyprexa. West said Lilly has no indication that a committee hearing will be set. Analysts said the drug likely will be cleared without committee deliberations.
"The big expectation would be that Zyprexa will be approved ... That's what's on everybody's radar screen," said Smith Barney pharmaceuticals analyst Christina Heuer.
Zyprexa received a positive opinion in June from the European Union's Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products. European marketing approval likely will follow, analysts said.
Several competing products are in the pipeline.  
Close behind Lilly are Abbott Laboratories Inc with Serlect, Zeneca Group Plc with Seroquel and Pfizer Inc with Ziprasidone. All are expected to hit the market within the next 12 months.
Already on the market are Johnson &amp; Johnson's Risperdal, Sandoz AG's Clozaril and the benchmark treatment available since 1967, haloperidol, as well as a host of less frequently prescribed drugs.
Studies have shown that one in 100 people is schizophrenic. Estimates of the annual U.S. market for treating the disease range from $1 billion to $4.5 billion.
Looking at the huge success of Lilly's Prozac in treating clinical depression, drugmakers are hoping to score equally impressive wins with the new anti-schizophrenics.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Apple Computer Inc. Chairman Gilbert Amelio said Tuesday the computer maker's three-year turnaround plan was still on track despite its statement last week that it will report a first-quarter operating loss of as much as $150 million.
Amelio, speaking to thousands of Macintosh computer enthusiasts at the MacWorld trade show here also called on several star computer industry executives to express their support for the Macintosh.
In his much-anticipated keynote speech, Amelio assured Mac customers the company will have a smooth transition as Apple shores up its finances and overhauls the fundamental software of the Macintosh.
"We will encounter a few bumps on the way, but I don't want that to shake your confidence," Amelio told Macintosh customers and software developers. "We are sticking to our strategy."
Apple has been struggling for the past year to stop huge financial losses, develop new software to make the Mac more modern and increase revenues. Under Apple's three year plan, it aims to stop financial losses in 1996, develop new products in 1997 and increase revenues in 1998.
Since Amelio became chairman of the Cupertino, Calif.-based company a year ago, he has slashed costs. In December, Apple also agreed to buy NeXT Software Inc. for $400 million to get its help in revamping the fundamental software of the Mac.
In order to move developers smoothly from Apple's current operating system to the new system, Apple said it plans to continue to deliver regularly scheduled upgrades to the current system while accelerating development of a new and advanced operating system.
The new operating system, code-named "Rhapsody," will be based on the merging of technologies from Apple and NeXT.
"Our goal is to be one of the world's strongest brands for consumer, education and the enterprise," Apple co-founder and Next Software President Steven Jobs said, adding Apple hoped to rely on Next's multimedia and computing intensive software to accomplish that goal.
Apple said Friday it expected to report a loss from operations of $100 million to $150 million because of weak sales of its Performa line of Macintosh computers. Revenue for the company's first quarter ended Dec. 27 is expected to drop 10 percent from the $2.3 billion reported in the September quarter.
Amelio blamed the shortfall on weak consumer sales for personal computers rather than a breakdown of Apple's strategy.
"We had one thing that really fell out of bed in a big way and that is, Santa Claus forgot to come," he said, referring to the surprisingly low sales of its Performa desktop PC line aimed at consumers.
The first quarter "was about retail sales, not about the fundamentals in the recovery of Apple," Amelio told a packed ballroom.
Industry experts say part of the blame for declining revenue falls on the perception that there is not as much software for the Macintosh as there is for PCs running Windows software from Microsoft Corp..
To boost the Mac's image, Amelio turned to executives from Microsoft, Sun Microsystems Inc., and Netscape Communications Corp. to announce software plans for future versions of the Mac.
"We see great opportunities for the Mac in the future," said Paul Maritz, Microsoft vice president in charge of application development.
At Macworld, Microsoft introduced its Internet Explorer browser for the Mac.
The Redmond, Wash.-based software giant, which has often battled Apple for control of the PC industry, also said it created a new product unit responsible for design and development of a Macintosh version of its widely used Microsoft Office software suite.
While Microsoft remains Apple's great nemesis in the operating systems software business, Microsoft also has long served as the leading independent developer of software applications that run on Apple Macintosh computers.
"When Apple's biggest third-party developer decides to commit new resources to its Macintosh applications business, that's a pretty clear sign that there's still money to be made in the Macintosh market," said Jeffrey Tarter, an industry analyst and publisher of Soft*Letter.
The creation of the new Macintosh product unit, part of the Microsoft desktop applications division, marks the first time in the history of the division that an entire product unit has focused exclusively on the Macintosh, Microsoft said.
James Barksdale, chief executives of Internet software vendor Netscape, also said his company will release versions of its communication software within the next few weeks that will run on Apple's next-generation operating system.
Apple's stock closed down 37.5 cents at $17.50 on Nasdaq.
Hunting so-called "fat cats" - the biggest company boardroom earners - may have become a British media obsession but the pay packets of the country's top players are under even closer scrutiny from institutional shareholders.
The latest row, between electronics giant General Electric Co and some of its major shareholders who objected to a 10 million pound ($15.61 million) five-year package for new managing director George Simpson, resulted in GEC setting tougher performance targets.
But questions remain over how much the individuals charged with running some of Britain's most, and in some cases least, successful companies deserve to be paid and have led to a reappraisal of the fundamentals of corporate governance.
Both last year's Greenbury committee on executive pay and the earlier Cadbury report on corporate governance laid down guidelines on how companies should behave. But not all the rules are compulsory and some firms have opted not to toe the line.
This has led to a more active approach by leading institutional shareholders like Norwich Union and has seen greater involvement from bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension funds.
"Institutional shareholders are paying a lot more attention to these issues, not perhaps out of choice but because of circumstances. We do think remuneration issues are important but perhaps get more publicity than they should," Anita Skipper, corporate governance manager at Norwich Union told Reuters.
Skipper said the group, which has been looking at corporate governance issues for more than a decade, does not generally give a view on the general package an executive receives, but tries to ensure a company's performance justifies the benefit.
This means close scrutiny of every aspect of the company's performance, including factors such as its return on capital, cashflow, the way it is managed and its prospects.
"It's good to see the big investing institutions flexing their muscles and taking an active interest in this way," one industry insider told Reuters.
Last week Tim Melville-Ross, director general of the Institute of Directors, rallied behind Simpson, arguing that very few people were capable of doing the job.
Melville-Ross also sat on the Greenbury panel which urged the remuneration committees - which decide directors' salaries - to take into account the wider scene, including pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the company and industry.
A row over a new executive bonus scheme at British power and water giant United Utilities in July fuelled public outrage at the million-pound packages that executive directors of monopoly utilities have managed to amass since privatisation.
Last year, chairman of Marks and Spencer Sir Richard Greenbury was given the job of attempting to impose curbs following public outrage over the pay of Cedric Brown, formerly the chief executive of British Gas.
"That was a watershed. That was what raised public awareness of the issue (of directors' pay)," Norwich Union's Skipper said.
The Greenbury committee said a number of privatised water and energy companies "have developed, perhaps unintentionally, remuneration packages which are richer than required to recruit, retain and motivate quality managers".
Skipper maintains that revealing directors' pay is a requirement of good corporate governance. "It should be there for shareholder scrutiny," she said.
But her view is not appreciated by all directors. One director of a quoted financial institution, recently told Reuters he was firmly against having his salary and pension details published not least because of the potential personal repurcussions.
His mother-in-law happens to be a shareholder and receives the company's annual report and accounts and he confided that she has since hinted she will re-write her will in favour of her other children.
($1=.6406 Pound)
General Instrument Corp. said Tuesday it planned to split into three companies through a tax-free spin-off to shareholders in a bid to boost its stock market value.
Wall Street welcomed the move, which was seen as unlocking the value of the Chicago-based company's core high-tech communications business.
"That's where the growth is," said industry analyst Louis Ehrenkrantz of brokerage Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum.
General Instrument said it will create NextLevel Systems Inc. out of its cable television, satellite and telephone business; CommScope Inc. out of its coaxial cable manufacturing business; and General Semiconductor Inc. from its units that make electronic components.
"Investors will be able to value each of the three companies on its own merits and growth fundamentals," said General Instrument Chairman Richard Friedland.
The company said the breakup will force it to take an after-tax charge against earnings of $55 million to $65 million, or 37 cents to 44 cents a share, for the fourth quarter. The fourth-quarter charges consist mainly of costs related to the transition to the next generation of digital products, restructuring costs incurred through Dec. 31, and the write-down of certain assets, the company said.
The company said it will incur additional charges this year of up to $70 million for costs related to the spin-off, including the costs of dividing the company's Taiwan assets between NextLevel Systems and General Semiconductor.
The company expects fourth-quarter earnings, which will be announced Feb. 10, to be in the range of 28 cents to 32 cents a share, excluding the charges. Last year, the company reported net earnings of $53.5 million, or 43 cents per share, in its fiscal fourth quarter.
The restructuring is expected to be completed this summer.
Friedland, who will become chairman of NextLevel, said the three businesses would be best positioned as independent, public companies.
"The businesses have different dynamics and business cycles, serve different markets and customers, are subject to different competitive forces and must be managed with different short- and long-term goals," Friedland said in a statement.
NextLevel will be comprised of General Instrument's cable, satellite and telephone businesses, which had 1996 sales of about $1.7 billion. The company will supply systems and components for high-performance networks delivering video, voice and Internet and data services.
CommScope Inc. will make and supply coaxial and electronic cables, businesses that had 1996 sales of more than $560 million.
General Semiconductor Inc., the company's power semiconductor division, will supply low-to-medium power rectifiers and voltage suppressors. It had 1996 sales of more than $360 million.
General Instrument stock rose 25 cents to close at $23 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Aiming to fill Americans' seemingly insatiable desire for sport utility vehicles, Chrysler Corp.  and Ford Motor Co.  both introduced new models of the go-anywhere vehicles Tuesday at the North American International Auto Show.
The plush Lincoln Navigator and the brawny Dodge Durango were introduced a day after General Motors Corp.'s unit unveiled an upscale version of its popular Yukon sport/utility vehicle and Subaru of America Inc., a unit of Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd  7270T, debuted a new sport/utility based on a passenger car chassis.
Sport/utility vehicles sales climbed to just over two million in the United States in 1996 and are the fastest-growing automotive segment.
The vehicles are so popular that even sportscar maker Porsche AG said Tuesday it also plans to enter the market by the turn of the century.
Although more and more companies are adding more and more models, the market is yet to be saturated, as more drivers foresake cars for the larger vehicles.
"They really are considered substitutes," said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist at First Chicago NBD Corp. "These are replacing old station wagons. They're also eating very heavily into the luxury car markets."
Luxury is a key feature of the new Ford and GM models.
Ford's Lincoln Navigator, which is expected to be available in July, includes leather seating surfaces, walnut wood accents and second row bucket seats.
It is expected to be priced in the mid-$40,000 range and will compete at the premium end of the market with vehicles by Lexus and Land Rover. It is aimed at affluent empty nesters or high-profile active families. The target age for Navigator owners is 45-55, said Jim O'Connor, general manager of Ford's Lincoln Mercury division.
The vehicle, which O'Connor expects will sell 20,000 annually, was driven through a mock rock wall and waterfall to make its debut.
The vehicle seats eight, has a 5.4-litre V8 engine with 8,000 pound towing capacity and 116.4 cubic feet of cargo space.
GMC's Yukon Denali, which is scheduled to be in production in  the 1998 calendar year, features four heated seats and a premium sound system, among other accessories.
"We're certainly going upscale," Roy Roberts, general manager of GM's Pontiac-GMC division, said when asked about pricing. He declined to comment further.
Chrysler made its typical auto show splash with the introduction of the Dodge Durango, which broke through the floor of a mock-up of the automaker's new headquarters building.
Touting it as a breakthrough vehicle that offers "more of everything," Chrysler said sales could eventually reach 200,000 units. The automaker invested $910 million to bring the vehicle to market.
The Durango, which goes on sale in December, uses the same chassis and beefy front end as the Dodge Dakota pickup truck. It is aimed at a more downscale audience than Chrysler's tony Jeep Grand Cherokee. One unique feature is a rear cargo well sized to fit a hunting rifle.
The vehicle is bigger than Ford's popular Explorer, but smaller than the Yukon, Navigator and Ford Expedition.
Durango features an optional third bench seat, boosting its seating capacity up to eight people.
Despite growing criticism about sport/utilities' poor fuel economy, the Durango offers the biggest engines in its class, including 5.2-litre and 5.9-litre V8s.
Pricing was not announced, but Chrysler Vice Chairman Robert Lutz said the Durango could be made with a four-cylinder engine, if necessary.
With so many new sport/utility vehicles entering the market, it is becoming more competitive, which will eventually lead to pressure on margins.
"We'll get saturation if people can't afford to buy these things, relative to the cars they drive," said Joseph Phillippi, analyst at Lehman Brothers.
Demand for more affordable sport/utilities will push manufacturers to build them on car platforms, as Subaru, Toyota and Honda are doing, Phillippi said, adding that few drivers travel far off road and don't need the ruggedness and high ground clearance of a truck-based sport/utility.
Executives at the Big Three automakers stress that their new sport/utility vehicles will not compete with existing lines.
"We don't think this will be a major drag at all on Expedition," O'Connor said of Ford's current top-of-the-line sport utility vehicle. Instead, he said the Navigator should attract new customers to Lincoln-Mercury.
"I think it will bring a whole new customer to Lincoln," he said.
But the automakers also know that if they don't offer sport/utility vehicles in a variety of niches, others will.
"I'd rather have the alternative be in my dealer" showroom, said Chrysler's Lutz.
As for Porsche, Chairman Wendelin Wiedeking would not go into specifics on the German automaker's plans in the sector, other than to say it was in discussions with a third party.
A longstanding row over market share between rival plane makers Boeing of the U.S. and Europe's Airbus consortium resurfaced on Tuesday, when Airbus claimed to have overtaken the U.S. giant.
Airbus senior vice president for strategy John Leahy told reporters at the Farnborough air show that if 117 cancellations of previous orders at Boeing were taken into account, the U.S firm had added 216 net new orders this year rather than the gross orders of 333 planes announced.
"You have to be very careful when people are running around at air shows talking about gross order books because gross orders aren't what you can bill," he said. "Essentially a third of the Boeing order book has been cancelled this year."
Airbus, with 13 cancellations, has so far had 221 net orders this year, putting it ahead of the Seattle-based firm, he said.
Based on planes seating between 125-350 passengers in which Airbus fields a competitor product to Boeing -- Airbus does not have a 100- or 400-seater -- the European grouping claims a 52 percent share, crediting Boeing with 43 percent and McDonnell Douglas with five percent.
Leahy said since 1976, Boeing's share had shown a slow but noticeable decline while Airbus showed a strong increase. McDonnell Douglas had seen a steep loss.
But Boeing vice-president for marketing Bruce Dennis told Reuters, even with cancellations, the company was exceeding targets for this year of around 63-64 percent market share.
"Orders are exceeding our targets and are doing very well," he said. "We just don't agree with their numbers."
Although Airbus has increased its share over the years, this had not been at Boeing's expense but came out of McDonnell Douglas's sales. "It's not coming out of Boeing's hide."
Production figures gave a clearer view of the company's advance, he said. Boeing had recently increased production of its 777 giant twinjet to seven per month from five and would be turning out the 737 narrow-body at a rate of 17.5 planes per month late next year. He gave no figure for present output.
Airbus' Leahy reaffirmed the group's aim to develop the 3XX, a plane seating over 500, for $8 billion, or perhaps less, thanks to industry restructuring efforts.
The four-nation partnership aims to deliver the first 3XX in 2003, he said. He also defended the company's market forecast for the plane, which showed there was demand for the aircraft.
Airbus executive Volker Von Tein said of the 3XX, which is seen as key to attacking Boeing's lucrative monoploy at the top end of the market, "We are not in a race with Boeing on this programme. If Boeing were to launch a stretched derivative of their veteran, 34-year-old 747, it will come as no surprise to us." That would allow Airbus to "fine tune" the 3XX, he said.
He added that Boeing had said that there was not enough room in the market for two makers of large planes. "In that case I would suggest that they opt out of the competition because once the A3XX is on the market maybe they will be proven right -- there will be no room for old derivatives."
Boeing's Dennis said he could not see how Airbus could build the 3XX for the estimated $8 billion, "unless they see something that we can't."
Boeing Commercial Airplane Group president Ron Woodward said on Monday its studies showed it would cost over $5 billion to build large planes seating 460 and 560 derived from the existing 747 jumbo jet, which would be cheaper than creating a new plane like the 3XX.
The Airbus consortium comprises French Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Germany's Daimler-Benz Aerospace AG and CASA of Spain.
Competitive pressures in the U.S. cereal market are expected to put a crunch on earnings for two companies -- one the branded leader and the other the largest maker of private-label cereals.
Analysts said Kellogg Co, the largest U.S. cereal maker, is expected to report flat fourth quarter earnings, although it may be able to eke out a rise of a penny or two.
Ralcorp Holdings Inc, which makes private-label -- or store brand -- cereal, is expected to report lower earnings for its fiscal first quarter, analysts added.
In both cases, earnings are pressured by price cuts and promotions in the intensely competitive U.S. cereal market.
Kellogg has seen its market share decline recently in the face of heavy promotions by its rival, General Mills Inc . General Mills last month reported an increase in its fiscal second quarter earnings to $1.00 a share from $0.92.
"(Kellogg's) domestic earnings are clearly going to be down on lower sales and some increase in marketing spending," said Goldman Sachs analyst Nomi Ghez.
She added Kellogg's market share appeared to have risen somewhat in December as it increased promotions.
Among the other food companies reporting quarterly earnings, poor pork and beef margins are expected to hurt fourth quarter earnings for meat processor IBP Inc.
"IBP will have down earnings, how far down we don't know," Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman said.
Quaker Oats Co is expected to report an operating profit for the fourth quarter compared with a year ago operating loss. Quaker, however, is expected to take a charge in the fourth quarter to reduce the carrying value of its Snapple beverage business.
"The issue for Quaker is how big of a charge they take for Snapple," said BT Securities analyst John O'Neil.
Quaker said in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it was reviewing Snapple for a possible charge to reduce the carrying value. A Quaker spokesman declined to comment on the possibility of a charge in the fourth quarter.
Sara Lee Corp is expected to report a double-digit earnings increase for its fiscal second quarter, with the biggest improvement in its meat and bakery division, said Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette analyst William Leach.
Analysts said CPC International Inc is expected to report a smaller than typical rise in its quarterly earnings, due to the previously reported impact of high corn costs.
Company     Qtr     First Call Mean EPS Estimate   Yr-Ago EPS
CPC Int'l   Q4		   $1.08			$1.02
IBP Inc     Q4		   $0.29			$0.59
Kellogg     Q4		   $0.77			$0.77
Quaker Oats Q4	  profit $0.12		loss  $0.18
Ralcorp     Q1		   $0.20*		     $0.46
Sara Lee    Q2		   $0.63			$0.55
*Ralcorp estimate based on analysts contacted by Reuters, not First Call
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
General Instrument Corp pleased Wall Street Tuesday by announcing a three-way corporate break-up that analysts said will unlock the value of the company's core high-tech communications systems business.
"Generally, these things work in the sense that when you do the spinoff, the sum of the parts tends to be greater than the initial whole," said industry analyst Hickman Powell at Southeast Research Partners.
At the same time, the planned creation of three new companies raises some questions, analysts said.
Chicago-based General Instrument said it will create a company to be called NextLevel Systems Inc out of its cable television, satellite and telephone businesses.
Also planned is creation of a new firm called CommScope Inc out of a world-leading coaxial cable manufacturing business, and General Semiconductor Inc out of electronic component manufacturing operations.
"Investors will be able to value each of the three companies on its own merits and growth fundamentals," said General Instrument chief executive Richard Friedland.
Shares in General Instrument were up 1/4 to 23 at midday.
The prize to emerge from the bust-up will be NextLevel, focused on high-speed modems, television cable set-top boxes and other hot areas. "That's where the growth is," said analyst Louis Ehrenkrantz of Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum.
But some analysts questioned how the business will fund its growth after being stripped of the coaxial and semiconductor businesses, which throw off large cash flows.
"The answer must be that that portion will have to, from time to time, come to the equity market," Powell said, adding that a recent optic fiber deal with NYNEX Corp bodes well for NextLevel.
Optic fiber is replacing coaxial cable in many places, especially along communications trunk lines, which may pose a threat to the distant future of CommScope, analysts said.
But Powell pointed out, "There's still quite a lot of the world to be cabled up...That company, by the way, has been gaining market share."
Finally, General Semiconductor on its own will suffer from the same cyclical swings in the electronic components markets that drove it as a unit of General Instrument, analysts said.
"Two-thirds of that company are going to be very good stocks. The semi-conductor unit, well, it will come along when the semiconductors recover," Ehrenkrantz said.
General Instrument said the break-up will force it to take charges against earnings of as much as $135 million on its fourth quarter results due February 10 and later this year.
General Instrument Corp. said Tuesday it planned to split into three companies through a tax-free spin-off to shareholders in a bid to boost its stock market value.
Wall Street welcomed the move, which was seen as unlocking the value of the Chicago-based company's core high-tech communications business.
"That's where the growth is," said industry analyst Louis Ehrenkrantz of brokerage Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum.
General Instrument said it will create NextLevel Systems Inc. out of its cable television, satellite and telephone business; CommScope Inc. out of its coaxial cable manufacturing business; and General Semiconductor Inc. from its units that make electronic components.
"Investors will be able to value each of the three companies on its own merits and growth fundamentals," said General Instrument Chairman Richard Friedland.
The company said the breakup will force it to take an after-tax charge against earnings of $55 million to $65 million, or 37 cents to 44 cents a share, for the fourth quarter. The fourth-quarter charges consist mainly of costs related to the transition to the next generation of digital products, restructuring costs incurred through Dec. 31, and the write-down of certain assets, the company said.
The company said it will incur additional charges this year of up to $70 million for costs related to the spin-off, including the costs of dividing the company's Taiwan assets between NextLevel Systems and General Semiconductor.
The company expects fourth-quarter earnings, which will be announced Feb. 10, to be in the range of 28 cents to 32 cents a share, excluding the charges. Last year, the company reported net earnings of $53.5 million, or 43 cents per share, in its fiscal fourth quarter.
The restructuring is expected to be completed this summer.
Friedland, who will become chairman of NextLevel, said the three businesses would be best positioned as independent, public companies.
"The businesses have different dynamics and business cycles, serve different markets and customers, are subject to different competitive forces and must be managed with different short- and long-term goals," Friedland said in a statement.
NextLevel will be comprised of General Instrument's cable, satellite and telephone businesses, which had 1996 sales of about $1.7 billion. The company will supply systems and components for high-performance networks delivering video, voice and Internet and data services.
CommScope Inc. will make and supply coaxial and electronic cables, businesses that had 1996 sales of more than $560 million.
General Semiconductor Inc., the company's power semiconductor division, will supply low-to-medium power rectifiers and voltage suppressors. It had 1996 sales of more than $360 million.
General Instrument stock rose 12.5 cents to $22.875 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The U.S. economy should provide a repeat in 1997 of the steady growth seen in 1996, which should also lead to car and truck sales near 1996 levels, according to economists who work for the Big Three automakers.
Economists for Ford Motor Co and General Motors Corp both forecast vehicle sales between 15 million and 15.5 million in 1997, while Chrysler Corp's economist predicted sales of 15.2 million. Sales were about 15.4 million in 1996. The forecasts were made in a presentation to the Society of Automotive Analysts.  
"We are likely to see more of the same," Chrysler's W. Van Bussmann said, echoing the view of the other two analysts.
"We see no significant changes in either direction on fiscal or monetary policy," said G. Mustafa Mohatarem of General Motors.
Ford's Martin Zimmerman was even more optimistic. "I frankly don't see why this growth can't continue into 1998," he said.  
But that does not mean the auto industry has no concerns. The one short-term worry all three economists voiced was the weakening of the yen, which fell to about 117 to the dollar Monday from about 106 a year ago. A weaker yen makes Japanese imports, including automobiles, less expensive in the United States.
That, in turn, makes Japanese cars more competitive in the U.S. market, giving Japanese automakers more flexibility in pricing, analysts said.  
But the analysts all expected political or market pressures to cause the yen to stabilize and then strengthen somewhat against the dollar this year.
"We should see the yen start to strengthen," Zimmerman said.
Bussmann forecast the yen at 106 to the dollar by the end of 1997.
In western Europe, analysts see continued economic pressure associated with the move to European union in 1999 continuing to weigh on the economy there and keep vehicle sales about flat.  
But Mohatarem argued that there is a possibility for a positive surprise in central Europe, saying Russia could achieve three percent economic growth by 1998.
Mexico was also seen as an area for growth, with that economy recoverying quicker than expected from the recent peso crisis, analysts said.
Meanwhile, Bussmann argued that capacity usage for truck production will remain at about 80 percent through the year 2000 and that truck demand as a percentage of total vehicle market share will continue to rise.
"We see the light truck demand reaching 50 percent (of total vehicle demand) by just past the turn of the century," he said.
But other analysts were not as optimistic about demand for light trucks, which generally have higher profit margins than cars.
"I don't think it will reach 50 percent of demand," said Thomas Webb, chief economist with the National Automobile Dealers Association.
During his presentation, Webb also said his forecast for 1997 auto sales was on the low end of a range he defined between 14.7 million and 15.1 million autos.
	 ((Chicago newsdesk 312 408-8787))
General Motors Corp. took the wraps off its much awaited 1997 Chevrolet Corvette amid a shower of sparks and blaring music Monday, rounding out a day of coupe introductions at the North American International Auto Show.
The new Corvette is the fifth generation of the classic Detroit muscle car, and the first redesign since the 1984 model year vehicle. The manufacturer's suggested retail prices for the car, which starts arriving at dealerships in February, is $38,060, an increase of $270 over the previous model.
General Motors Chairman Jack Smith said the new Corvette will continue its long-time tradition as Chevrolet's signature sports car.
"It's the image car for Chevrolet. Always has been and always will be," he said.
Although its looks are similar to the old one, Chevrolet touts the new Corvette as all new from "rubber to roof."
The 1997 version carries a new 5.7 litre, small block engine that produces 345 horsepower from a smaller unit. The car also features a stiffer frame, all-new suspension, a larger interior, 70 percent more cargo room, and is easier to get in and out of.
Some critics have said the design of the new model, which has been under development for almost a decade, is too close to the current model. But Chevrolet General Manager John Middlebrook said Corvette buyers, some of the most loyal in the industry, did not want a radical design change.
"We did a lot of research and testing and the customer wanted Corvette cues," he told reporters following the introduction.
The fifth generation 'Vette, a closely guarded secret, was GM's highest profile scheduled introduction at the Detroit auto show. The company made the most of it by posting sheriff's deputies outside of the press conference who turned away executives from other auto companies who wanted to watch the introduction.
Annual production at its Bowling Green, Ky., plant is expected to be about 28,000 units, Middlebrook said. However, production for calendar 1997 will be about 20,000 because the company will not get a full year of straight-time production.
Also introduced Monday was the Mercedes-Benz CLK, a four-seat coupe that will sell for about $40,000. The new coupe shares the round front headlights of the Mercedes C-Class sedan.
Mercedes said it will offer two versions of the new coupe and three engine choices. The car will begin hitting dealer showrooms in the United States in June.
Ford Motor Co. unveiled its new ZX2 Escort coupe. Pricing was not set, but Ford officials said it would be similar to current Escort prices. Ford is aiming the vehicle at younger buyers who want performance. The new car, which goes on sale in April, will come with a 130 horsepower, 16-valve engine with a dual overhead camshaft.
Earlier, the North American Car and Truck of the Year Awards were announced. The new Mercedes SLK roadster edged out the Jaguar XK8 for the car award. Ford's new Expedition full-size sport utility won the truck award.
Canadian gold giant Placer Dome Inc on Tuesday agreed to a deal with Papua New Guinean (PNG) miner Highlands Gold Ltd that gives Placer control of the vast PNG Porgera gold mine and ends a bitter feud between the two miners.
The deal also keeps the Highlands group as a listed company free to develop base metal and gold projects in the resource rich South Pacific nation.
Under the complex plan the Vancouver-based miner would pay Highlands A$316.1 million (US$249.7 million) to buy Highlands' 25 percent stake in the Porgera mine, which is estimated to have produced 850,000 ounces of gold in calendar 1996.
Placer had previously offered Highlands A$276.8 million for its Porgera stake after building up a 40-percent stake in Highlands through a hostile takeover bid.
"We are pleased that Placer has accepted our offer," Highlands managing director Ian Goddard said in a statement.
The restructuring plan involves all shares in Highlands other than those held by Placer being cancelled and holders receiving a capital return of 65 cents cash per share and one share in Highlands Pacific.
"It's good for Placer Dome because it gets what it really wanted, it's good for Highlands shareholders because they get more than 75 cents, they get 65 cents cash plus they have the share in the new company," one source close to the deal said.
Highlands will spin-off a new company, Highlands Pacific Ltd, which would hold the Ramu nickel/cobalt and Frieda-Nena copper/gold projects as well as its exploration porfolio in PNG and Indonesia.
"There has been strong institutional interest in our proposal, which unlocks the value of Ramu, Frieda-Nena and Highlands' extensive exploration interests," Goddard said.
Under the restructure of the Highlands group about A$160 million would be raised through a mixture of new equity and the planned sale by Placer Dome of the shareholding it would inherit in Highlands Pacific.
The new equity issue in Highlands Pacific would be at 30 cents per share, Highlands Gold said. The newly-formed company would have a market capitalisation of about A$250 million when it lists on the Australian Stock Exchange in March.
Placer Dome already has effective control over the 25 percent stake in Porgera through its Australian offshoot Placer Pacific Ltd, which the Canadian miner plans to buy-out the remaining 24.6 percent stake in the Australian miner.
Placer Dome's orginal bid of 75 cents per Highlands share launched on November 28, 1996 was rejected by the PNG miner, which valued Highlands at A$423 million. Highlands had also threaten Placer with court action over its initial bid.
Investors welcomed the new deal.
In early afternoon trade Highlands shares were two cents up at 81 cents on active trade of about 14 million. While fellow Porgera partner Orogen Minerals Ltd touched a record high of A$3.05 on the news. Orogen holds 15 percent of Porgera.
(A$=US$0.7900)
China said on Tuesday the health of its 92-year-old paramount leader Deng Xiaoping was relatively good and had not changed dramatically.
"For an old man, he is doing relatively well," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a news briefing when asked about Deng's health.
"There has been no big change," Shen said. He declined to comment further.
Deng, whose market-oriented policies helped transform China from a backward Stalinist state into one of the world's most dynamic economies, has not been seen in public since early 1994. In his last appearance he looked frail and faltering.
Speculation abounds about his health, ranging from rumours he was admitted to hospital in recent days to reports he remains at home though no longer mentally alert.
Deng has vowed to visit Hong Kong to witness the return of the British colony to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30 but a Beijing vice-mayor believed to be close to the Deng family said recently this would be difficult.
Deng oversaw the negotiations that led to an agreement for Britain to hand back the territory it has held for 150 years. He has said repeatedly he hoped to be able to witness the transfer of sovereignty.
He has spent his twilight years cloistered off from the public eye, creating opportunities for power-hungry, would-be heirs fighting for his title to use his name to strengthen their hand, analysts say.
China Central Television is broadcasting a 12-part documentary series about Deng's life that shows a vigourous leader portrayed against a background of golden clouds.
The man who launched China's economic reforms no longer holds public office but remains highly influential.
Deng's health has long been the subject of intense speculation both in China and elsewhere because his death is expected to trigger a power struggle among those eager to succeed him as the de facto emperor of the world's most populous nation.
Analysts have said the series was carefully crafted by those who would benefit most from polishing up Deng's image.
President Jiang Zemin is in line to succeed Deng as China's most powerful man but it is widely believed that Jiang still needs to shore up his position as the heir to Deng's political mantle.
Jiang, Deng's own anointed heir-apparent, will need to call on the clout of his sponsor to consolidate his position at a crucial party meeting later this year, analysts have said.
The television paean to Deng, who always openly shunned the personality cult surrounding Mao Zedong, has been seen as evidence of his waning control over the affairs of the government.
Canadian gold giant Placer Dome Inc on Tuesday agreed to a deal with Papua New Guinean (PNG) miner Highlands Gold Ltd that gives Placer control of the giant PNG Porgera gold mine and ends a bitter feud between the two miners.
The deal also keeps the Highlands group as a listed company free to develop base metal and gold projects in the resource rich South Pacific nation.
Under the complex plan the Vancouver-based miner would pay Highlands A$316.1 million (US$249.7 million) to buy Highlands' 25 percent stake in the Porgera mine, which is estimated to have produced 850,000 ounces of gold in calendar 1996.
Placer had previously offered Highlands A$276.8 million for its Porgera stake after building up a 40-percent stake in Highlands through a hostile takeover bid.
"We are pleased that Placer has accepted our offer," Highlands managing director Ian Goddard said in a statement.
The restructuring plan involves all shares in Highlands other than those held by Placer being cancelled and holders receiving a capital return of 65 cents cash per share and one share in Highlands Pacific.
"It's good for Placer Dome because it gets what it really wanted, it's good for Highlands shareholders because they get more than 75 cents, they get 65 cents cash plus they have the share in the new company," one source close to the deal said.
Highlands will spin-off a new company, Highlands Pacific Ltd, which would hold the Ramu nickel/cobalt and Frieda-Nena copper/gold projects as well as its exploration porfolio in PNG and Indonesia.
"There has been strong institutional interest in our proposal, which unlocks the value of Ramu, Frieda-Nena and Highlands' extensive exploration interests," Goddard said.
Under the restructure of the Highlands group about A$160 million would be raised through a mixture of new equity and the planned sale by Placer Dome of the shareholding it would inherit in Highlands Pacific.
The new equity issue in Highlands Pacific would be at 30 cents per share, Highlands Gold said. The newly-formed company would have a market capitalisation of about A$250 million when it lists on the Australian Stock Exchange in March.
Placer Dome already has effective control over the 25 percent stake in Porgera through its Australian offshoot Placer Pacific Ltd, which the Canadian miner plans to buy-out the remaining 24.6 percent stake in the Australian miner.
Placer Dome's orginal bid of 75 cents per Highlands share launched on November 28, 1996 was rejected by the PNG miner, which valued Highlands at A$423 million. Highlands had also threaten Placer with court action over its initial bid.
Investors welcomed the new deal.
In early afternoon trade Highlands shares were two cents up at 81 cents on active trade of about 14 million. While fellow Porgera partner Orogen Minerals Ltd touched a record high of A$3.05 on the news. Orogen holds 15 percent of Porgera.
(A$=US$0.7900)
Shiva Corp. stock lost almost half its value Wednesday after the data communications equipment maker stunned Wall Street by revealing that fourth-quarter earnings were likely to be no more than a third of expectations.
The company's stock plunged $15.625, or 45 percent, to $19.25 on Nasdaq after it said late on Tuesday it expected earnings for the fourth quarter of 1996 to be between 5 cents and 7 cents a share.
That would be sharply below consensus estimates of 21 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks analysts' estimates. Twenty-four million shares exchanged hands, making it the day's most actively traded issue.
Securities analysts said the earnings shortfall triggered the massive sell-off, but that the decline was accelerated by plans by company officials to make changes in Shiva's business strategy that analysts said could imperil earnings further.
"I think the drop was to a large extent a reaction in the stock to the warning of lower earnings," said Smith Barney analyst Therese Murphy. "But I think when people sit back they are also going to be concerned about the change in strategy."
In a brief statement released after the markets closed on Tuesday, the Bedford, Mass.-based company said the shortfall was based on preliminary calculations.
Chief Financial Officer Cynthia Deysher said in a phone interview on Tuesday that the shortfall was mainly due to weakness in domestic sales and a decision by International Business Machines Corp. to delay an order during the quarter.
"We didn't receive the Q4 (order) from IBM," Deysher said. IBM is a key reseller of Shiva's networking products. She also said the company did not ship as much product as it expected in the quarter.
The Shiva official said the company would take steps to address the shortfall, including reorganizing its sales force.
Deysher said Shiva had renegotiated terms of its strategic alliance with Canada's Northern Telecom Ltd., a move she said is likely to cause revenues to decline but profit margins to rise, ensuring it can still meet its earnings goals.
Deysher said NorTel will assume the costs of manufacturing products resulting from the alliance and cover a larger share of the partnership's research and development costs.
Shiva's switching equipment is one piece of a larger Northern Telecom communications system that allows remote callers such as telecommuters or traveling sales staff to dial into central office computers.
"We felt it would be more profitable because we are moving to a royalty arrangement" with Nortel, Deysher said. Shiva will be paid a percentage of sales instead of for each product it builds, as called for under the prior terms of the alliance.
Before its fall from grace, many Wall Street analysts classified Shiva as one of the fast-growing companies best-positioned to participate in the massive demand for network equipment used to build the Internet's infrastructure.
While executives said they remained confident Shiva could make up the lost ground in future quarters and still meet the Wall Street consensus expectation of $1.06 per share for fiscal 1998, Wall Street analysts refused to buy the argument.
Analysts slashed earnings estimates well below company forecasts and those who had not previously done so downgraded their ratings on the stock. Most advised investors to dispose of shares and remain on the sidelines until Shiva shows concrete evidence it can meet earnings targets again.
According to First Call, of nine Wall Street analysts who follow the company, seven cut earnings forecasts and or stock ratings on Shiva.
In spite of Shiva's optimism long-term, the new earnings consensus for the year ending January 1998 of the seven analysts was $0.83 per share, down from $1.07 previously.
Murphy said that even if Shiva's plans to focus on its newer switching equipment products succeed, it faces stiff competition from larger rivals like Ascend Communications Inc., Cascade Communications Corp. and U.S. Robotics Inc.
"I didn't encourage people to bottom-fish on this correction," she said, referring to her recommendation to brokerage clients.
"When you miss numbers as significantly as they did, it draws a lot of different questions," said Matt Barzowskas, an analyst for First Albany. "You get a lot more conservative."
"After a quarter like this you have to just step back and evaluate," Barzowskas said. "I am not ready to believe they can do what they think they can do at the moment."
But while he slashed his earnings estimates for the foreseeable future, the First Albany analyst maintained his buy rating on the stock at its now severely reduced price.
Shiva said it expected revenue for the three months ending Dec. 28 to be $48 million to $50 million, compared with $57.1 million for the prior quarter, which ended in September. The company reported $35.6 million in revenues for the fourth quarter of 1995.
Shiva said it will report final results for the fourth quarter and year on Jan. 23 after the close of the market.
The Czech government on Wednesday approved rules for a tender to sell a stake of about 34 percent in the financially troubled jet aircraft maker Aero Vodochody a.s. to a strategic partner.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus told a news conference after a cabinet meeting, that the tender is open to both domestic and foreign investors, despite hints from some ministers that the sale might be geared toward domestic companies.
The winner is to be announced on April 2.
The Czech chemical and arms conglomerate Chemapol Group a.s. has shown an interest in Aero, as well as U.S. Boeing Co in an alliance with Czech air carrier Ceske Aerolinie a.s., and local trading company CIMEX Holding a.s..
Aero is pinning hopes of recovering from financil problems on its flagship L-159, a light training subsonic fighter currently in its final stages of development, which is to be equipped with Rockwell International Corp. avionics.
The Czech army has signed up to buy 72 L-159s, and the government has already approved a 3.26 billion crown package clearing the heavily indebted company's books.
State-controlled shareholders approved a cut in Aero's basic capital last month to one milion crowns from 962 million, and to subsequently underwrite a rights issue to raise equity to between 1.74 and 2.5 billion crowns as a part of the deal.
Klaus said the criteria approved by the cabinet include that Aero will not pay out dividends until production of new L-159 starts, and that the investor has to pay most of the price of the shares from his own assets, not on credit.
He said a commission would be set up to consider bids, including representatives of the privatisation agency National Property Fund (NPF), ministries of interior, industry and trade, foreign affairs, defence, finance, and other officials.
Section Director at the Industry and Trade Ministry, Pavel Stejskal, told Reuters that "roughly 34 percent stake was available" for the tender.
He added that the chosen investor would underwrite a new share issue.
Klaus said the state would keep at least a 34 percent stake in the future.
Aero Holding a.s., majority owned by the NPF, holds 44 percent stake in Aero Vodochody, while the state-owned bank Konsolidacni Banka s.p.u. has 32 percent, while the banks IPB a.s. and Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s. have 16 and eight percent respectively.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The main Czech oil refiner, Ceska Rafinerska a.s., said on Wednesday it would reopen the hydrocracking unit at its Litvinov refinery, damaged by a fire last month, by the end of January.
Company spokesman Ales Soukup said that the fire on December 2, and another apparently unrelated fire eight days before that, would have some effect on 1996 earnings, but he said it was not yet clear to what extent.
"The refinery is in full operation... the cracking unit was put aside. It should be reopen by the end of January," Soukup told Reuters.
He said that the refinery, in the northwest of the country, was processing crude at normal levels, but the depth of quality of the processing was lower due to the absence of the cracker.
"(The fires) will certainly have some impact, on the other hand, the company is insured, so a number of those damages will be paid for," he said.
Soukup added that final results for last year should be known at the end of the first quarter.
The fire affecting the hydrocrcker broke out on December 2 in a furnace of the unit, just as crude flow resumed after an eight-day stoppage.
Oil flow had been halted when a blaze ripped through a tanking terminal in another part of the refinery on November 23.
They were the first major reported incidents at the refinery since a western consortium took a major equity stake in the newly created Ceska Rafinerska at the end of 1995.
In a deal completed last year, the IOC consortium of three foreign oil groups bought a 49 percent stake in Rafinerska, a company set up to operate the two main Czech refineries at Litvinov and Kralupy, earlier belonging to Chemopetrol Group a.s. and Kaucuk Group a.s. .
The IOC is equally owned by DuPont Co unit Conoco of the United States, Royal Dutch/Shell , and Italy's Agip SpA .
The state holds the remaining 51 percent stake in Rafinerska through the holding company Unipetrol a.s..
The remaining parts of Kaucuk and Chemopetrol, both controlled by the state, are to complete a merger into Unipetrol with a share swap planned for later this year.
Unlike recent January's, Czech refineries are recieving Russian crude supplies normally through the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline, which had frequent New Year's flow interruptions the past two years because of rows over transit fees between Moscow and Kiev.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
A bullish Zeneca Group Plc set out its declaration of independence on Wednesday, predicting years of strong profit growth on the back of robust sales of new drugs and agro-chemicals.
Chief executive David Barnes, in his last interview before the group announces 1996 results on March 11, told Reuters he was confident Zeneca would meet his "inspirational target" of effectively doubling profit by the end of the century.
All three key businesses, pharmaceuticals, agro-chemicals and speciality chemicals, would contribute to the improvement.
Zeneca's share price has jumped by more than 50 percent in the past 18 months, closing at 1631 pence on Wednesday, as takeover rumours swirled around it. Speculation has linked Zeneca with a dizzying number of partners, including Switzerland's Roche Holdings AG, Germany's Bayer AG and France's Sanofi.
While Barnes said a takeover bid was "most unlikely," he added that shareholders would have to compare any offer with the average annual growth of 15 percent in earnings per share promised by Zeneca between 1996 and 2000.
Despite its debt-free balance sheet, Barnes said the company had little interest in getting on the acquisition trail itself, preferring to buy in new products and technologies on a case-by-case basis.
"I am not against acquisitions per se but they have to offer value and quality, and most of the opportunites that have come up have failed on one or both criteria," Barnes said.
The company's main focus is the roll-out of a raft of new products, including the asthma drug Accolate and the new agro-chemical fungicide Amistar, which Barnes described as "the biggest single product we've got in the Zeneca portfolio".
On Wednesday the company announced that it was expanding its drug sales force in the United States by more than 20 percent to cope with the rush of new products, including the potential launch later this year of a ground-breaking schizophrenia drug, Seroquel, and a new migraine drug, Zomig.
Barnes forecast significant sales for Accolate and for Seroquel, squashing fears from some analysts that either drug might turn out to be a disappointment.
"Our benchmark for a substantial product is one that has sales of $400 million plus, and both of those have that potential," he said.
A lot of hopes are riding on Accolate, the first of a new generation of asthma drugs in which tablets take the place of steroid-based inhalers.
"The Holy Grail for the treatment of asthma has been simple tablet formulation," said Barnes. Since the drug's launch in the key U.S. market last October, Barnes said, sales had been "fully up to our expectations" with a lot of interest shown by doctors."
Another new drug, the prostate cancer treatment Casodex, is also making rapid progress in the United States, accounting for more than 50 percent of all new prescriptions.
But Barnes said he was aware that in line with the rest of British industry, Zeneca would have to work harder for its profits in 1997 as the strong pound bites into overseas earnings. He acknowledged that the exchange rate could wipe around 70 million pounds off Zeneca's 1997 profits, which are still expected to top 1.1 billion pounds.
"I don't think the level of sterling is such that our products will be uncompetitive," said Barnes, but he added: "I do think the pound is getting very fully priced now."
Chad's cotton monopoly Cotontchad is forecasting rises in output and processing capacity in the 1996/97 November-October season, thanks in part to higher world prices.
At the same time, it is looking to new markets in China and Russia to boost sales of what is currently the nation's main source of foreign exchange.
But company administrative director Mahamet Tahi Kherallah says that despite the optimistic outlook, the industry remains hostage to external factors beyond its control.
"The future depends on the problems of world cotton price fluctuation, rain levels, and the exchange rate for sales in dollars," he told Reuters in an interview.
Africa's fifth largest cotton producer, majority state-owned Cotontchad limited the impact on production of a 1996 drought.
"The threat of drought has been overcome by enlarging the area under cultivation," Kherallah said. "Rains in (southern Chad) cotton areas were largely sufficient. We needed four months of good rain between May and September."
Rain in other areas was up to 50 percent below average.
Cotontchad sees its seed cotton purchases rising to a record 204,600 tonnes in 1996/97 from 157,476 tonnes in 1995/96. It projects the area under cultivation rising to 264,557 hectares from 209,750 in 1995/96.
Africa produces no more than five percent of world cotton.
Chad's National Office for Rural Development (ONDR) in November raised Grade 1 cotton farmgate prices for 1996/97 by 30 CFA francs a kg to 170 CFA to pass on world market price increases to farmers and encourage production.
The rise followed a 20 CFA increase in 1995/96, a move that had already encouraged farmers to plant cotton and use insecticides and fertilisers.
Total seed cotton processing capacity at Cotontchad's eight southern factories, which handle all the annual crop, has been increased to cope with the projected production increase.
In 1995/96 they produced 61,808 tonnes of fibre. In 1996/97, officials expect them to produce 83,991 tonnes.
"We recently added capacity to an existing factory at Pala, which is now our most modern facility," Kherallah said. "Quantities and quality are particularly good around Pala."
Processing capacity has also been boosted to 40,000 tonnes of seed cotton a year at Moundou and Kelo, with plans to do the same at Koumra over the next two to three years, he added.
Exports could be boosted, with China and Russia showing interest. Traditional markets for Grade 1 cotton are Portugal, Germany, Japan and France -- plus Nigeria for Grade 2.
With world average per capita consumption expected by some experts to rise to 7.24 kg in 1997 from 7.12 kg in 1995, Cotontchad says demand for its produce is already increasing.
"Our cotton is sold throughout the world but we are getting a lot of interest in people setting up business with us," Paris-based Marketing Director Ibrahim Malloum told Reuters.
Cotontchad hopes oil revenue, expected from 2000, will be used to improve dirt bush tracks. Road construction is under way in southern cotton belt areas but some tracks are closed to large trucks by law during two to four months of rains.
Cotton thrives in Chad's wetter southern areas. It was not farmed commercially until French colonisers gave Coton Fran, later Cotontchad, a monopoly on cotton purchasing and ginning.
Cotontchad is owned by Chad (75 percent), the CFDT French textile development board (17 percent), banks (six percent) and the CFD French Development Board (two percent).
An estimated two million of Chad's 6.4 million people depend directly on cotton, but textile manufacturing is still a minor industry.
The country's one textile plant, the partly French-owned Cotex factory at Sahr, took only 500 tonnes from Cotontchad in 1995/96, Kherallah said. The plant has a 1,000-tonne capacity.
($1=530 CFA francs)
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's oil industry earned higher export revenues from booming world prices in 1996 but has started 1997 increasingly worried about the slow pace of recovery in demand at home, energy analysts said on Wednesday.
Domestic producers, taking advantage of international oil prices which soared about 30 percent in 1996 to their highest in six years, jammed crude oil export outlets last year.
But analysts said that while companies would continue to try to sell as much as possible abroad, higher demand at home -- Russian oil's main future customer -- was not yet in sight.
Eugene Khartukov of Moscow's independent World Energy Analysis and Forecasting Group and the International Centre for Petroleum Business Studies said 1997 could show either a recovery in output or yet another slide.
"It's possible we will see stabilisation and possibly even some growth but it all depends on what the government does with taxes and the production-sharing law," he said.
Russian crude oil output in 1997 could rise to 6.3 million barrels per day (bpd) from the 1996 estimate of 6.1 million bpd and would probably not dip below that level, he added.
That could mean a significant turnaround for the world's third-largest oil producer, which has seen output nearly halved since its 1987 Soviet-era peak of 11.5 million bpd and is still struggling to slow the pace of decline.
The Fuel and Energy Ministry, which has not finished compiling 1996 results, said in December that crude oil and gas condensate output over January-November 1996 had slipped two percent to 275.9 million tonnes.
Exports of about one third of Russia's output jumped 4.7 percent year-on-year over the same period to 92.8 million tonnes, it said.
But producers used the extra cash to pay off debts and wage arrears, not to rehabilitate wells or drill new ones.
Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister Garipov said in December that Russia conducted no exploration for new oilfields last year for the first time since World War Two.
"We believe that the general trend is stabilisation but that it will differ from company to company," said Maxim Shashenkov, a Russia analyst at Merrill Lynch in London.
"But further growth is constrained by limits in domestic demand and export capacities," he said, adding that higher export earnings had not underwritten the giant cost of structural transformation needed in the Russian industry.
Russian wholesale producer prices for crude oil are a mere 50-55 percent of world levels and reach only 70-75 percent after tariffs and transport costs are tacked on.
Khartukov said crude oil exports would at least equal 1996's 2.5 million bpd this year and possibly hit 2.7 million and refinery throughput would be flat at around 3.4 million bpd.
But he also said Moscow's political and economic uncertainties could wreak havoc in the industry, adding: "It's a big crazy mixture of unpredictable things."
The Czech government on Wednesday approved rules for a tender to sell a stake of about 34 percent in the financially troubled jet aircraft maker Aero Vodochody a.s. to a strategic partner.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus told a news conference after a cabinet meeting that the tender is open to both domestic and foreign investors, despite hints from some ministers that the sale might be geared toward domestic companies.
The winner is to be announced on April 2.
The Czech chemical and arms conglomerate Chemapol Group a.s. has shown an interest in Aero, as well as U.S. Boeing Co in an alliance with Czech air carrier Ceske Aerolinie a.s., and local trading company CIMEX Holding a.s..
Aero is pinning hopes of recovering from financial problems on its flagship L-159, a light training subsonic fighter currently in its final stages of development, which is to be equipped with Rockwell International Corp. avionics.
The Czech army has signed up to buy 72 L-159s, and the government has already approved a 3.26 billion crown package clearing the heavily indebted company's books.
State-controlled shareholders approved a cut in Aero's basic capital last month to one million crowns from 962 million, and to subsequently underwrite a rights issue to raise equity to between 1.74 and 2.5 billion crowns as a part of the deal.
Klaus said the criteria approved by the cabinet include that Aero will not pay out dividends until production of new L-159 starts, and that the investor has to pay most of the price of the shares from his own assets, not on credit.
He said a commission would be set up to consider bids, including representatives of the privatisation agency National Property Fund (NPF), ministries of interior, industry and trade, foreign affairs, defence, finance, and other officials.
Section Director at the Industry and Trade Ministry, Pavel Stejskal, told Reuters that "roughly 34 percent stake was available" for the tender.
He added that the chosen investor would underwrite a new share issue.
Klaus said the state would keep at least a 34 percent stake in the future.
Aero Holding a.s., majority owned by the NPF, holds 44 percent stake in Aero Vodochody, while the state-owned bank Konsolidacni Banka s.p.u. has 32 percent, while the banks IPB a.s. and  Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s. have 16 and eight percent respectively.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The Colombian authorities hailed Wednesday the U.S. pilot who was killed during an anti-drug mission over guerrilla-infested jungles of southeast Colombia as a "hero fighting the scourge of narco-trafficking."
Robert Martin, 35, of Lubbock, Texas, died when his Turbo Thrush T-65 crop dusting plane crashed in Guaviare province Tuesday. He had been fumigating illicit plantations of coca leaf, the raw material for cocaine.
Colombian Defence Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra, police chief Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano and U.S. ambassador Myles Frechette were among mourners at a religious service in Bogota to honour Martin. A lone bugler played the "Last Post" and the U.S. flag was draped over Martin's coffin.
"We're not here to bid farewell to a pilot or to a U.S. citizen. We're here to say goodbye to a hero who decided to join us in combatting one of the worst scourges known to mankind -- narco-trafficking," Serrano said.
Police said Martin, one of six U.S. civilian pilots working in Colombia under contract with the U.S. State Department, was killed on the first day of his contract. Frechette said he was the first U.S. aviator to die on such a mission.
As police cadets mounted a guard of honour for Martin and three police helicopters flew in formation overhead, Frechette pledged the fatality would not affect U.S.-Colombian cooperation in the drug war.
The question of U.S. personnel taking a direct role in drug or counterinsurgency operations is a traditionally thorny issue because of what Colombian politicians see as the possible infringement of national sovereignty.
Crop-dusting planes come under frequent attack from armed gangs and leftist guerrillas who guard the clandestine drug plantations.
Police chief Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano said Tuesday there was a heavy rebel presence in the area but said there was no indication the aircraft had come under fire. He said a full investigation was under way, adding the most likely cause of the crash was human error or mechanical failure.
A U.S. pilot flying his first anti-drug mission in Colombia was killed when his plane crashed in a jungle area of southeast Colombia on Tuesday, police said.
The pilot was identified by police chief Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano as Robert Martin, 35. He was flying a U.S.-registered Turbo Thrush T-65 crop-dusting plane and had been fumigating illicit plantations of coca leaf, the raw material for cocaine. His hometown was not released.
U.S. ambassador Myles Frechette confirmed the aviator's death and said he was the first U.S. pilot, sent to the country under the terms of a U.S. State Department contract with the Colombian government, to die on such a mission.
He said Martin's body had been recovered and said the cause of the accident would be fully investigated.
"The most likely cause of the crash was human error or mechanical failure. Leftist guerrillas are present in the zone but this plantation was very remote and I doubt the rebels could have shot down the plane," Serrano said.
Police said it was the first day of the pilot's contract.
The crash occurred in a remote area of Guaviare province, one of Colombia's main coca producing regions. Martin was flying one of four planes on the spraying mission and was one of six U.S. pilots assisting Colombia's drug crop eradication programme.
Illicit plantations are often guarded by heavily armed gangs and sometimes by leftist guerrillas, which the government accuses of being involved in drug trafficking. It was not clear whether the plane had come under fire.
"Unfortunately narco-terrorists frequently fire at these (crop-dusting) planes. They don't know whether Colombians or Americans are flying them," Col. Luis Carlos Ortiz, second-in- command of the Colombian anti-narcotics police, told Reuters.
The U.S. pilots were originally only permitted to train Colombian pilots. But since October the Colombian authorities gave them the green light to fly live missions to eradicate coca leaf and opium poppy plantations.
All the pilots are civilians, employed by Texas-based aviation company Dyncorp, but a State Department spokesman told Reuters that some were former U.S. servicemen. Dyncorp declined to comment on the accident.
Last year Colombia's U.S.-backed drug crop eradication programme destroyed about 14,000 acres (6,500 hectares) of poppy and more than 44,500 acres (18,000 hectares) of coca leaf.
President Ernesto Samper sent a message of condolences to U.S. President Bill Clinton on Wednesday after a U.S. pilot was killed during an anti-drug mission in southeast Colombia.
Robert Martin, 35, died when his Turbo Thrush T-65 crop-dusting plane crashed into dense jungle in Guaviare province Tuesday while he was fumigating illicit plantations of coca leaf, the raw material for cocaine.
"In the name of the Colombian people and that of my government, I offer sincere condolences for the tragic death of Robert Martin," Samper wrote to Clinton.
"His death is added to all those others that have occurred in recent years during our bitter fight against the poison of drugs. The memory of Martin, and that of our policemen and soldiers, will give us additional motivation to continue the fight," he said.
Police said Martin, one of six civilian pilots working in Colombia under contract with the U.S. State Department, was killed on the first day of his contract.
U.S. ambassador Myles Frechette said he was the first U.S. aviator to die on such a mission.
The question of U.S. personnel taking a direct role in drug or counterinsurgency operations is a thorny issue because of what some Colombian politicians see as the possible infringement of national sovereignty.
Samper said in his letter that Martin had been "training Colombian pilots in illicit crop fumigation."
But since October such "training" functions have extended to frontline operations, including flying live missions to spray coca leaf and opium poppy plantations, State Department officials told Reuters.
Crop-dusting planes come under frequent attack from armed gangs and leftist guerrillas who guard the clandestine drug plantations.
But police chief Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano said Tuesday there was no indication Martin's plane had come under fire despite a heavy rebel presence in the area. He said the most likely cause of the crash was human error or mechanical failure.
An accident investigation was under way and Martin's body was scheduled to be flown back to the United States Wednesday afternoon. He was employed by Texas-based aviation company Dyncorp, but authorities have not said where he was from.
Colombia's U.S.-backed drug crop eradication programme is the most ambitious in Latin America. Last year the Colombians destroyed about 14,000 acres (6,500 hectares) of poppy and more than 44,500 acres (18,000 hectares) of coca leaf.
Ford Motor Co. said Wednesday it may sell its interest in Budget Rent a Car, joining other U.S. automakers in their race to exit the battered rental car business.
"We're looking at the idea that a sale could be done," said Ford spokesman Chris Vinyard.
Ford does not own Budget outright, holding non-voting preferred shares and an option to acquire the car rental agency's common shares, which are owned by investor John Nevin, Vinyard said.
"We could theoretically either sell our option or direct the sale of the common shares through our option," he said.
If a sale goes through, as analysts widely expect, Budget would be the fifth major rental car agency to change hands since 1994. "The reason is they're not making any money," said WEFA Group automotive consultant George Magliano in New York. "Travel is hot, but the car rental business is going nowhere."
That is not evident from the sudden interest shown in the $14 billion a year business by a new class of investors who are buying up the agencies as the automakers unload them.
"They see opportunity for profits. The industry is in a mild recovery and it's probably a better time to own a rental car agency than it has been for a long time," said Jon LeSage, editor of Auto Rental News, a trade journal in California.
Ford declined to comment specifically on an article in Wednesday's Wall Street Journal that said Ford was expected to sell Budget to Team Rental Group Inc., a Daytona Beach, Fla.-based Budget licensee, for $350 million.
A Team Rental spokesman also declined comment.
"No agreements have been reached among any parties," said Kimberly Mulcahy, spokeswoman for Lisle, Ill.-based Budget. She declined further comment.
Ford said last year it would exercise its option and buy out Budget's common shares, but analysts said the deal looks shaky now after delays resulting from an antitrust review by the Federal Trade Commission.
Budget has been closely allied with Ford for many years and rents mainly Ford vehicles. Ford's planned purchase of the company was meant to improve its performance.
Vinyard said Ford was exploring a possible sale because of rising investor interest in rental car firms. "Interest in the group in the last six to 10 months has increased significantly," Vinyard said.
Vinyard said the automaker does not plan to make any announcements regarding Budget following Ford's regular board of directors meeting scheduled for Thursday.
A.G. Edwards auto analyst Michael Braigg in St. Louis said he expects Ford to sell Budget soon, likely to Team Rental. "I think that one's pretty far along," he said.
"The real issue is that Budget is the small rental property of Ford. And if Budget is for sale, then so is Hertz in the long run," Braigg said.
Ford began investing in Park Ridge, N.J.-based Hertz in 1987 when U.S. automakers were buying up rental car agencies hoping to load up their fleets with the thousands of new cars that consumers were leaving on the lots.
The strategy worked for a while, but then backfired when agency sales of barely used rental vehicles started eating into new car sales. Automakers began encouraging the agencies to hold fleet cars longer, which restricted how many new cars the agencies could take on.
Ford bought all of Hertz in 1994 and, unlike many rental car agencies, Hertz is probably profitable, analysts said.
"There is no big advantage to the automakers to owning these agencies anymore," WEFA's Magliano said. "Probably along the way, Ford will sell Hertz. Generally, when these companies begin to divest operations, they get rid of them all."
Reassured by a back-to-basics management trend running through U.S. industry, automakers started selling off rental car agencies in 1994 with Chrysler Corp.'s sale of Snappy Car Rental. General Motors Corp. sold National Car Rental Systems Inc. in 1995 to private investors, who earlier this week agreed to sell National to Republic Industries Inc.
Seeking to lock in supply for its fledgling AutoNation used-car chain, Atlanta-based Republic in November agreed also buy Alamo Rent-A-Car Inc.
Last June GM sold its 29-percent stake in Avis Inc. to HFS Inc., a real estate and hotel concern based in New Jersey.
Chrysler still owns Dollar Rent-A-Car and Thrifty Rent-A-Car. "Our status today is that Dollar and Thrifty are very much a part of our everyday business. It's business as usual," said Chrysler spokeswoman Lori McTavish.
"It is Chrysler's goal, however, to focus on our core automotive business," she added.
Based on U.S. vehicle fleet size, Auto Rental News ranks privately held Enterprise Rent-A-Car, of St. Louis, as the nation's largest rental car agency, followed by Hertz, Avis, National, Alamo, Budget, Dollar and Thrifty.
Together, Enterprise, Hertz and Avis own half of the total rental fleet of about 1.5 million vehicles, according to the trade journal.
Chrysler Corp. Wednesday introduced all-new versions of its Chrysler Concorde and Dodge Intrepid family sedans, part of a $2.1 billion revamp of the car line that helped rescue the automaker five years ago.
Detroit's third-largest automaker said the cars, which will reach showrooms in the fall, will stay in the same price range as the cars they replace -- about $20,000-$26,000.
The strategy contrasts with that of Ford Motor Co., which in 1995 introduced a redesigned Taurus sedan with more upscale features that resulted in higher prices. Ford later brought out a lower-priced Taurus when sales failed to meet expectations.
"Our concept is to keep them as affordable as possible and keep them in the same price range of today's" models, Chrysler Vice Chairman Robert Lutz told reporters following the introduction of the new model at the North American International Auto Show here.
Chrysler introduced the original "LH" car line in 1992 at a time when the automaker was emerging from its second brush with bankruptcy in a decade. Dubbed by some analysts as the company's "Last Hope," the cars' acceptance by consumers brought badly needed cash and confidence to the company.
Chrysler did not introduce other LH variants, which include replacements for the Chrysler LHS luxury car and the Eagle Vision.
Improved production processes will help keep prices down, though the cars' features include all new engine technology, Lutz said.
The cars, as well as two other models to be introduced in the fall, were the result of a 31-month development programme that cost Chrysler about $2.1 billion, including two new overhead-cam V-6 engines, Chrysler said.
The automaker expects to sell 250,000 to 260,000 of the cars annually, with the Intrepid accounting for about 50 percent of the sales and the other three models making up the rest.
To follow up on its launch Tuesday of the new Durango sport/utility vehicle, which broke through the floor of a mock-up of Chrysler's new corporate headquarters, Chrysler unveiled the new sedans in a fake thunderstorm, complete with water falling on the Cobo Hall stage. The theme of the presentation was "Lightning Strikes Twice."
The programme marks the launch of a new family of V-6 engines for Chrysler, part of a significant revamping of the company's engine line.
The base models of both cars will be powered by an all- aluminum, 2.7-litre 24-valve V-6 engine rated at 200 horsepower. The Concorde LXi and Intrepid ES will have 3.2-litre, 24-valve V-6 engines rated at 220 horsepower.
Chrysler said it engineered the cars to offer a quieter ride and better handling than current models.
The cars also include larger headlights and larger brakes, increased usable cargo room, platinum tipped spark plugs and a "coil-on-plug" ignition system to eliminate tuneups before 100,000 miles, Chrysler said.
Chrysler stressed that the two sedans are designed to appeal to different consumers, with Intrepid geared toward slightly younger, less affluent buyers.
The cars will be assembled at Chrysler's Bramalea, Ontario plant.
Lutz admitted that Chrysler was introducing the cars into a declining market for sedans, with typical sedan buyers now opting for other choices, including sport/utility vehicles.
But he said the decline was cyclical and could change with the next generation of car buyers.
"We know each generation rejects what its parents had," said Lutz.
WebTV Networks Inc. on Wednesday unveiled a new technology it said enables full-screen, television quality video to be delivered from the Internet through conventional telephone lines.
Steve Perlman, co-founder and chief executive of WebTV, said in an interview the new technology will be deployed in upcoming versions of its Internet service, which lets people access the global computer network using their television sets.
The privately held company numbers among its equity investors Microsoft Corp., Citicorp, VeriFone Inc., Times Mirror Co. Inc. and Lauder Partners.
Perlman said the advance, which was being demonstrated publicly for the first time at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, speeds download times significantly and greatly increases the quality of video compared with existing systems.
WebTV said the new technology, which it has dubbed VideoFlash, has impressed officials from companies that might use it to show television and movie previews, news clips and advertising and animation through the WebTV Internet service.
Publisher National Geographic, known for producing quality videos and photographs, said the technology was the first to provide acceptable quality video over an Internet link.
"VideoFlash is the first Internet video technology that will allow National Geographic to deliver a visual experience on the Internet comparable to the imagery, drama and depth we offer with our television programming," said Larry Lux, vice president of National Geographic Interactive.
VideoFlash can achieve three to 10 times the video compression rates of existing compression technologies, such as MPEG, which itself can compress video data by a factor of around 100, Perlman said.
Even with the fastest modem connections now available, previous technology could take up to half an hour to download a 30-second video clip which could be played on a small window on a computer with generally grainy, shaky quality.
VideoFlash provides much faster downloading and higher-quality display with little perceptible distortion, according to WebTV.
Perlman said the software would be licensed at no charge to content providers to make videos available to WebTV subscribers. He said he expected major suppliers of video content over the Internet to adapt VideoFlash this year.
The technology is software-based and relies on the WebTV reference design, which takes advantage of WebTV server capabilities as well as its proprietary TV set-top box, and will not be available on other systems, at least initially.
But Perlman said he would expect at least one on-line Internet service provider may license the capabilities by the end of 1997.
WebTV terminal units, introduced in September, are currently manufactured and distributed by Philips Electronics NV and Sony Corp.
Ford Motor Co joined other U.S. automakers Wednesday in their accelerating race to exit the battered car rental business.
Ford said it may sell its interests in Budget Rent a Car, the nation's sixth-largest rental car agency.
If a sale goes through, as analysts widely expect, Budget would be the fifth major agency to change hands since 1994.
"The reason is they're not making any money," said WEFA Group automotive consultant George Magliano in New York. "Travel is hot, but the car rental business is going nowhere."  
That is not evident from the sudden interest shown in the $14-billion a year business by a new class of investors who are buying up the agencies as the automakers unload them.
"They see opportunity for profits. The industry is in a mild recovery and it's probably a better time to own a rental car agency than it has been for a long time," said Jon LeSage, editor of Auto Rental News, a trade journal in California.
Ford declined to comment specifically on a published report that it may sell Budget to Team Rental Group Inc, a Florida-based Budget licensee, for $350 million.
A Team Rental spokesman also declined comment.  
"No agreements have been reached among any parties," said Budget spokeswoman Kimberly Mulcahy, declining further comment. She said Ford does not own Lisle, Ill.-based Budget outright, but controls the company through an option to purchase its common shares.
Ford said last year it would exercise its option and buy out Budget's common shares, but analysts said the deal looks shaky now after delays resulting from a U.S. Federal Trade Commission antitrust review.  
As a result, A.G. Edwards auto analyst Michael Braigg in St. Louis said he expects Ford to sell Budget soon, likely to Team Rental. "I think that one's pretty far along," he said.
"The real issue is that Budget is the small rental property of Ford. And if Budget is for sale, then so is Hertz in the long run," Braigg said.
Ford began investing in Hertz in 1987 at a time when U.S. automakers were buying up rental car agencies hoping to load up their fleets with the thousands of new cars that consumers were leaving on the lots.  
The strategy worked for a while, but then backfired when agency sales of barely used rental vehicles started eating into new car sales. Automakers began encouraging the agencies to hold onto fleet cars longer, which restricted how many new cars the agencies could take on.
Ford bought all of Hertz in 1994 and, unlike many rental car agencies, Hertz is probably profitable, analysts said.
But Magliano said, "There is no big advantage to the automakers to owning these agencies anymore ... Probably along the way, Ford will sell Hertz. Generally, when these companies begin to divest operations, they get rid of them all."  
Reassured by a back-to-basics management trend running through U.S. industry, automakers started selling off rental car agencies in 1994 with Chrysler Corp's sale of Snappy Car Rental.
General Motors Corp in 1995 sold National Car Rental Systems Inc to private investors, who earlier this week resold National to Republic Industries Inc.
Seeking to lock in supply for its fledgling AutoNation used-car chain, Atlanta-based Republic in November agreed to buy Alamo Rent-A-Car Inc.
In June last year, General Motors sold off its 29-percent interest in Avis Inc to HFS Inc, a real estate and hotel concern based in New Jersey.
Chrysler still owns Dollar Rent-A-Car and Thrifty Rent-A-Car. "Our status today is that Dollar and Thrifty are very much a part of our everyday business. It's business as usual," said Chrysler spokeswoman Lori McTavish.
She added, "It is Chrysler's goal, however, to focus on our core automotive business."
Based on U.S. vehicle fleet size, Auto Rental News ranks privately held Enterprise Rent-A-Car, of St. Louis, as the largest U.S. rental car agency, followed in order by Hertz, Avis, National, Alamo, Budget, Dollar and Thrifty.
Together, Enterprise, Hertz and Avis own half of the U.S. rental car fleet of about 1.5 million vehicles, according to the trade journal.
Russia's oil industry earned higher export revenues from booming world prices in 1996 but has started 1997 increasingly worried about the slow pace of recovery in demand at home, energy analysts said on Wednesday.
Domestic producers, taking advantage of international oil prices which soared about 30 percent in 1996 to their highest in six years, jammed crude oil export outlets last year.
But analysts said that while companies would continue to try to sell as much as possible abroad, higher demand at home -- Russian oil's main future customer -- was not yet in sight.
Eugene Khartukov of Moscow's independent World Energy Analysis and Forecasting Group and the International Centre for Petroleum Business Studies said 1997 could show either a recovery in output or yet another slide.
"It's possible we will see stabilisation and possibly even some growth but it all depends on what the government does with taxes and the production-sharing law," he said.
Russian crude oil output in 1997 could rise to 6.3 million barrels per day (bpd) from the 1996 estimate of 6.1 million bpd and would probably not dip below that level, he added.
That could mean a significant turnaround for the world's third-largest oil producer, which has seen output nearly halved since its 1987 Soviet-era peak of 11.5 million bpd and is still struggling to slow the pace of decline.
The Fuel and Energy Ministry, which has not finished compiling 1996 results, said in December that crude oil and gas condensate output over January-November 1996 had slipped two percent to 275.9 million tonnes.
Exports of about one third of Russia's output jumped 4.7 percent year-on-year over the same period to 92.8 million tonnes, it said.
But producers used the extra cash to pay off debts and wage arrears, not to rehabilitate wells or drill new ones.
Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister Garipov said in December that Russia conducted no exploration for new oilfields last year for the first time since World War Two -- an unsettling sign since most of Russia's "easy" oil has already been produced.
"We believe that the general trend is stabilisation but that it will differ from company to company," said Maxim Shashenkov, a Russia analyst at Merrill Lynch in London.
"But further growth is constrained by limits in domestic demand and export capacities," he said, adding that higher export earnings had not underwritten the giant cost of structural transformation needed in the Russian industry.
Khartukov said bottlenecks in export outlets and flat demand from industrial consumers meant the Russian market was in fact oversupplied with crude oil and oil products for most of 1996.
"To increase output which can't be disposed of on the domestic market or be exported due to bottlenecks is crazy," he said, adding that oil companies could have technically produced an additional 70,000 to 100,000 bpd in 1996 but elected not to.
Russian wholesale producer prices for crude oil are a mere 50-55 percent of world levels and reach only 70-75 percent after tariffs and transport costs are tacked on.
Khartukov said crude oil exports would at least equal 1996's 2.5 million bpd this year and possibly hit 2.7 million and refinery throughput would be flat at around 3.4 million bpd.
But he also said Moscow's political and economic uncertainties could wreak havoc in the industry, adding: "It's a big crazy mixture of unpredictable things."
- Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
Lloyds Bank was on Wednesday fined 325,000 pounds ($550,000) by a British investment industry watchdog and looks set to pay millions of pounds in compensation to disadvantaged customers.
The Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) said it had fined Lloyds, which merged with TSB last year to form Lloyds TSB Group Plc, for breaches of rules relating to its pensions transfer business between April 1988 and June 1993.
Lloyds agreed to a settlement of disciplinary proceedings brought against it, the fifth such settlement IMRO has made with firms who have been found guilty of mis-selling pensions products.
IMRO said Lloyds "did not obtain or have systems to obtain all relevant facts about the personal and financial circumstances of its customers needed to advise them properly about pensions transfers".
It said Lloyds had not provided certain customers "with all the information needed to enable them to make a balanced and informed decision on whether to carry out a pension transfer".
Lloyds, which must pay IMRO's investigation costs of 63,000 pounds and make a contribution to its disciplinary costs, has already offered redress to some customers and the review of some 2,600 Lloyds transfer cases "is well advanced and will be substantially completed by December 31, 1997", IMRO added.
The bank expressed its regret in a statement.
"Lloyds Bank deeply regrets the errors which have resulted in charges being brought against it by IMRO for its pension transfer business," it said.
As a group, Lloyds TSB has made provisions totalling 165 million pounds for possible compensation payments to do with the mis-selling of pension products.
These relate to the Lloyds Bank business as well as the pensions activities of TSB before the merger, and of Lloyds' insurance subsidiary Lloyds Abbey Life.
The pensions mis-selling scandal, whereby individuals transferred their pension and were disadvantaged as a result, has been one of the most serious faced by the British financial services industry in recent years.
The affair knocked a big hole in the public's confidence in the industry which is only now being repaired and companies look set to pay a price running into hundreds of million of pounds as a result.
In November, Britain's top financial markets regulator the Securities and Investments Board (SIB) announced a new strategy to try and clear a logjam in the pensions industry's review of the mis-selling of pensions products and the payment of compensation to investors.
Both regulators and insurance and investment companies have come under a barrage of criticism over the length of time it has taken to complete a review of cases.
Lloyds said it has identified some 2,600 pension transfer customers of which it anticipates having to pay compensation to around 1,500.
It said its procedures had been fully overhauled three years ago to ensure that other customers will not be similarly affected in future.
Zeneca Group Plc said on Wednesday that it expected "substantial" peak sales in excess of $400 million for its new asthma treatment Accolate and schizophrenia drug Seroquel.
In an interview with Reuters, chief executive David Barnes said: "Our benchmark for a substantial product is one that has sales of $400 million plus, and both of those have that potential."
Barnes also painted an upbeat picure of prospects for Zomig, the migraine treatment obtained last year by Zeneca from its newly-merged rival Glaxo Wellcome Plc.
Some analysts had questioned whether Seroquel and Accolate -- which represent treatment breakthroughs in their repsective categories but also face potentially stiff competition -- would prove to be major sellers.
Accolate is the first of a new generation of asthma drugs taken in tablet form which will aim to erode the market share of inhaled steroids. The drugs, known as leukotreine antagonists, are designed to prevent or reduce the severity of asthma attacks rather than relieve existing attacks.
"The Holy Grail for the treatment of asthma has been simple tablet formulation," said Barnes.
Accolate was launched in the U.S, where steroid-based inhaled asthma drugs have never been as accepted as in Europe, in October. Although he declined to give details of sales, Barnes said "experience has been encouraging," and added "sales are fully up to our expectations."
"One of the most gratifying things has been the level of physician interest generated by the launch of Accolate," said Barnes, adding that the company had received "a large number" of inquiries from U.S. doctors about Accolate.
Earlier today Zeneca announced a 21 percent expansion of its U.S. sales force to help it deal with a rush of product launches, including the possible launch of Seroquel and Zomig later this year.
"The migraine market is growing very fast indeed, it's a substantial market, and so far as one is able to judge from clinical data Zomig has faster onset of action and maybe more consistent results than the leading product , (Glaxo Wellcome's) Imigran. I think it has substantial potential."
Barnes said Zeneca's new prostate cancer drug Casodex continued "to make very exciting progress" in the second half of 1996, taking more than 50 percent of new prescriptions in the U.S. and was "ahead of our forecasts."
Some $35 million worth of Casodex was sold in the first six months of 1996. The drug, which is currently approved for combination therapy, is being tested for use as monotherapy and for use at earlier stages of the disease.
"We now know that Casodex will be a bigger product than we thought in 1993 (when Zeneca was demerged from Imperial Chemical Industries Plc ) and it will be a substantially bigger product than most analysts thought in 1993," said Barnes.
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Intel Corp launched its new Pentium chip with multimedia extension (MMX) technology on Wednesday, promising TV-quality video, stereo surround sound and three-dimensional graphics for personal computers.
The world's largest computer chip maker, Intel has collaborated with more than 100 software developers, some of which have created programs such as UbiSoft's dizzying new car race game called Pod' especially for Intel's Pentium processors that have the new MMX technology.
"This means life-like colour, full screen video and graphics, CD (compact disk) quality stereo sound, real-time animation and a better Internet experience," Intel said.
Long-awaited in the computer market, the MMX has helped drive Intel shares to record levels over recent weeks and is expected by industry watchers to boost computer sales.
Intel shares rose a further four dollars on Tuesday to $143-3/8 but were down slightly in active early Wednesday trade.
Trumpeting MMX as a "giant leap forward" for PC users, European technology director Ian Wilson told Reuters that new multimedia software written to take advantage of MMX technology ran up to 60 percent faster than on Intel's previous Pentium processors. Existing software runs up to 10-20 percent faster.
Intel says the new technology will boost computer sales and soon become an industry standard.
"The new features we have introduced with MMX technology allow a much better, richer multi-media experience...and we'll see a home and consumer demand for PCs growing even more," Wilson said.
Intel said that for the first time in its history, a wide range of consumer software was available right at launch to exploit the powers of the new chip.
The MMX chip will initially be offered with the 166 and 200 MHz Pentium processors, improving the performance of personal computer-based multimedia and high-speed communications with faster "modems" for speeding access to the Internet.
A host of computer manufacturers are offering the Pentium MMX processor, including America's International Business Machines Corp, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, Italy's Olivetti and Japan's Toshiba.
British electrical retail chain Dixons said new Pentium processors with MMX technology would be available in some of its stores from Wednesday.
Wilson said he expected systems incorporating the new MMX technology to retail at between $1,500 and $2,000.
Analysts have estimated that Intel could sell 30 million to 45 million MMX chips this year -- about half of the microprocessor units it will sell this year.
But Wilson declined to comment on shipments, saying only: "By end of year, a significant percentage of our microprocessors being shipped will be incorporating MMX technology."
The MMX chip, which is available on desktop PCs as well as on low-power portable computers, contains 4.5 million transistors and adds 57 processor instructions to speed up software instructions.
The added performance of the technology frees up more of the Pentium processor to work on several tasks at once, including low-cost PC videoconferencing over standard telephone lines.
Intel said it planned to build technology to upgrade some of its older Pentium processors later this year.
The company does not expect a re-run of its experiences in 1992, when it was forced to recall hardware because of problems with its processor chips.
"I think we have learnt a lot from that experience," Wilson said. "We're very confident of the quality and reliability of the product we are shipping."
Lloyds Bank was fined 325,000 pounds ($550,000) Wednesday by a British investment industry watchdog and appears set to pay millions of pounds in compensation to disadvantaged customers.
The Investment Management Regulatory Organisation said it fined Lloyds, which merged with TSB last year to form Lloyds TSB Group Plc, for breaches of rules relating to its pensions transfer business between April 1988 and June 1993.
Lloyds agreed to a settlement of disciplinary proceedings brought against it, the fifth such settlement IMRO has made with firms that have been found guilty of improper sales of pension products.
IMRO said Lloyds "did not obtain or have systems to obtain all relevant facts about the personal and financial circumstances of its customers needed to advise them properly about pensions transfers."
It said Lloyds had not provided certain customers "with all the information needed to enable them to make a balanced and informed decision on whether to carry out a pension transfer."
Lloyds, which must pay IMRO's investigation costs of 63,000 pounds ($107,000) and make a contribution to its disciplinary costs, has already offered redress to some customers and the review of some 2,600 Lloyds transfer cases "is well advanced and will be substantially completed by Dec. 31, 1997," IMRO added.
The bank expressed its regret in a statement.
"Lloyds Bank deeply regrets the errors which have resulted in charges being brought against it by IMRO for its pension transfer business," it said.
As a group, Lloyds TSB has made provisions totalling 165 million pounds ($279 million) for possible compensation payments to do with the mis-selling of pension products.
These relate to the Lloyds Bank business as well as the pensions activities of TSB before the merger, and of Lloyds' insurance subsidiary Lloyds Abbey Life.
The pension scandal, whereby individuals transferred their pensions and were disadvantaged as a result, has been one of the most serious faced by the British financial services industry in recent years.
The affair knocked a big hole in the public's confidence in the industry and companies are set to pay a price running into hundreds of million of pounds as a result.
In November, Britain's top financial markets regulator the Securities and Investments Board announced a new strategy to try and clear a logjam in the pensions industry's review of the selling of pension products and the payment of compensation to investors.
Both regulators and insurance and investment companies have come under a barrage of criticism over the length of time it has taken to complete a review of cases.
Lloyds said it has identified some 2,600 pension transfer customers of which it anticipates having to pay compensation to around 1,500.
Stock in Canadian waste and transportation firm Laidlaw Inc. soared on Tuesday as investors and analysts applauded major moves in ambulance services and waste management worth over $2 billion.
While Laidlaw's stock hit new heights on the Toronto Stock Exchange, Chief Executive Officer James Bullock said the company was poised for strong growth with two huge deals announced after the market closed on Monday.
In a bid to become North America's top ambulance operator, Laidlaw plans to acquire Colorado-based American Medical Response Inc. in a $1.12 billion cash deal and merge it with its California-based MedTrans ambulance services unit.
In the other transaction, Laidlaw has signed a letter of intent to sell its South Carolina-based Environmental Services unit for $1 billion in cash, shares and debt to Rollins Environmental Services Inc. of Delaware.
After that deal, Laidlaw will own 66 percent of a new combined company, Laidlaw Environmental Services Inc., which will be the dominant player in North American hazardous waste management.
The moves came a few weeks after Burlington, Ontario-based Laidlaw completed the $1.65 billion sale of its solid waste management business to Allied Waste Industries Inc. of Arizona.
Laidlaw's class B stock closed up C$1.80 ($1.33) at a 52-week high of C$18 ($13) in heavy turnover of 9.3 million shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Laidlaw's class A stock rose C$1.45 ($1.06) to a new high of C$17.95 ($13.23).
"We've got a (share price) target level of around C$19 ($14) and C$20 ($15) for the year and it will probably go higher when the dust settles," said Ira Katzin, an investment advisor with RBC Dominion Securities.
American Medical Response jumped $6.375 to close at $39.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, while Rollins Environmental rose 37.5 cents to $2.375, also on the NYSE.
Analysts said the Rollins deal will further consolidate a fragmented industry and may improve prices for hazardous waste companies, which have been depressed in the past four to five years.
The American Medical Response acquisition will also boost Laidlaw's presence in the fast-growing health-care transportation area.
"Strategically, it is quite wise," Bunting Warburg Inc. analyst Ted Larkin said in a telephone interview.
"The highest growth potential is with their transportation companies. They are also able to partially spin off the hazardous waste operations and also allow that company to regain a profile by listing on the New York Stock Exchange," Larkin said.
With combined annual revenues of about $1.3 billion, the new American Medical will hold a 14 percent share of the $10 billion ambulance industry. It also gives Laidlaw access to related medical transport services, a $30 billion market.
Laidlaw CEO Bullock said American Medical will immediately boost Laidlaw's earnings, but he declined to give a specific forecast.
Some analysts raised concerns that antitrust issues may hamper the American Medical deal, but Bullock said he did not foresee any problems with regulators.
The transaction with Rollins Environmental will be neutral to Laidlaw's earnings in the near term while operations are consolidated.
Bullock said staff levels may be reduced by 15 percent to20 percent and 20 facilities may be closed, leaving about 100 facilities in the merged firm. The transition is expected to result in more efficient operations and savings of $75 million annually.
Almost 300 students and workers from the islands of Kiribati were adrift in the central Pacific on Wednesday aboard a crowded charter ship crippled by a fire, officials said.
The 1,000-tonne MV Maasmond appealed for help on Tuesday night after losing power through the fire in the engine room.
It was found by a Royal New Zealand Airforce Orion rescue plane drifting about 800 kms (500 miles) east of the Kiribati island of Tarawa with 290 passengers on board.
"The Orion located it this afternoon and was told via radio that it's in no immediate distress and has enough food and water for five days," Airforce Squadron Leader Ron Irons told Reuters from the RNZAF's base in Nandi, Fiji.
"It has partially restored its electric power, but it has no wasy to start its engine," Irons said.
An electrical fire in a switchboard in the engine room shut down the ship's electrical systems late on Tuesday, leaving the converted freighter without power and still two days sailing from the nearest land.
The ship's charterer, Kiribati businessman Waysang Kumkee, said the MV Maasmond's insurers would pay for another ship to tow it back to Tarawa.
The 64.5-metre (210 foot) Maasmond was chartered to carry 290 passengers, mostly Kiribati students and workers, and 400 tonnes of cargo to Christmas Island from Tarawa, Kumkee said.
A tugboat was likely to take two days to reach the stricken ship and another two days to tow it back to Tarawa, he said, adding the passengers had plenty of food and water to last the four days.
"It's not a problem. If they run out they can easily borrow some of the cargo," Kumkee told Reuters by telephone from Tarawa, one of a group of coral atolls about 5,000 kms (3,000 miles) north-east of Sydney.
The cargo included rice and tinned food.
None of the passengers or crew had been injured in the fire and the only problem on board was likely to be boredom given the ship's video players were out of action. "With no videos, they'll be a bit bored," Kumkee said.
Most of the passengers were sitting or sleeping under canvas on blankets on the deck, he said.
They would be reduced to playing cards and their guitars until their rescue, he added.
The MV Maasmond is registered in Kingstown in St Vincent and Grenadines, according to the Lloyds List, and has had engine trouble in the past.
In 1992, it underwent engine repairs for ten weeks after encountering cyclones on a cruise through the Pacific.
Australian retailers are heading for a grim round of sharply lower profit results as one by one the major chains announce they have fallen casualty to a sluggish economy and tight-fisted consumers.
Homeware retailer Harvey Norman Ltd added its voice on Wednesday to the chorus of woe, revealing it was trailing its goal of 15 percent annual sales growth amid the worst retail environment in the company's 15-year history.  
The comments, made to Reuters in an interview, follow formal warnings to the stock exchange that big upmarket department store chain David Jones Ltd, and two large clothing retailers, expect steep profit slides.
David Jones and fashion houses Country Road Ltd and Just Jeans Ltd have all warned of 50 percent drops in interim profit for the half-year ending January, confirming that Christmas failed to boost retailers' bottom lines.  
"We are used to posting massive increases (in sales turnover) year after year after year. This is the first year we've ever been caught up in a general market malaise," said Harvey Norman managing director Michael Harvey.
"It's basically an indication to us that the market is having its worst year since Harvey Norman began (in 1982)."
Harvey Norman, which is aiming for turnover of A$1.2 billion in the year ending June 30, has enjoyed annual sales growth of up to 58 percent over the past four years.  
It, along with other retailers, had been hoping for a strong December but found Australian wallets were not as easy to prise open as they once were, especially for clothes.
Australia's biggest retailer, Coles Myer Ltd, which accounts for almost 18 cents in every retail dollar spent, declined on Wednesday to give figures for December sales.
But corporate affairs director Peter Morgan said he was "comfortable" with Coles' performance. Coles has recently been among the most poorly performed listed retailers and is embarking on a major refocusing of its sprawling businesses.  
Official data released on Tuesday showed that all areas of retailing except for food weakened in the three months to November and that overall retail sales continued to trend down despite two interest rate cuts since July.
The Reserve Bank eased rates again last month, but it was too late to rescue a second dismal Christmas for retailers.
"A shocker" was how one stock analyst summed up the festive season for the clothing retailers, but she said supermarket chain Woolworths Ltd and other food retailers should have come through the Christmas period relatively unscathed.  
Asked about the outlook for full-year profits in 1996/97, the analyst said: "Pretty grim." But she and another analyst said they saw a pick-up in earnings in coming months.
"I think the outlook is reasonable, but not spectacular," the second analyst said.
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1421
Gaming and electronics group AWA Ltd said on Wednesday it wanted to buy up to 75 percent of the New South Wales government-owned betting agency, the Totalisator Agency Board (TAB), later this year.
AWA managing director John Rouse told Reuters in an interview that the company was looking at the option of a major recapitalisation to fund such an acquisition, which has been estimated to be worth around A$750 million.
"It's clear that AWA has a strong interest in participating in the privatisation of the TAB," Rouse said.  
He said the racing industry and AWA were looking closely at the model used to privatise the Victorian TAB, where the industry bought a 25 percent stake and 75 percent was privatised through Tabcorp Holdings Ltd.
AWA was considering the option of a major capital raising to fund the outright purchase of a 75 percent stake through a government trade sale, with an offer of a portion of the stake to the public later on.  
"You could have a situation where initially the capital raising is funded by financial institutions and maybe AWA's existing shareholder base, but within a period a portion of what has been acquired would be floated on a broader basis to the public," Rouse said.
The Labor government in New South Wales has yet to say publicly whether it would privatise the TAB, but is expected to announce within several months a plan to sell it either through a public float or a trade sale.  
Bidders however wanted the government to give some concrete assurances about the tax and licensing regime a privatisated TAB would face.
"It's important that the parameters in terms of tax and licensing are cast in concrete for some reasonable time," Rouse said.
AWA was aware of a desire within government and the wider public that the public be offered shares in any privatised NSW TAB at some stage, he added.
"We would be prepared to make commitments to the government that we would float it later on," he said.  
Rouse said there was a feeling within government and the racing industry that a trade sale would be preferable to a float.
"There are those that are close to this issue in government saying if New South Wales wants to deal with this matter quickly, if the racing industry wants to establish its financial arrangements sooner rather than later and the government doesn't want the costs of a public float, than a tender needs to be the preferred approach," he said.  
AWA's share price closed down two cents at 91 cents on Wednesday.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Australian furniture, whitegoods and computer retailer Harvey Norman said on Wednesday it was trailing behind its target for 15 percent annual sales growth and that cool summer weather had impacted on December sales.
Managing director Michael Harvey told Reuters that December sales again grew by "double digit figures" on the same month a year ago, but was not matching the robust growth the expanding company traditionally enjoyed.
Excluding sales from new stores, turnover in December, a peak month, rose only about five percent, Harvey said.  
"We are looking for a 15 percent increase (in 1996/97), which will take us from A$1.043 billion, which we posted last financial year, up to A$1.2 billion and at the moment we are falling short of that target," Harvey said in an interview.
He described the retail trading environment as the worst in the company's 15-year history, but stuck to his earlier hope that the second half of the current year ending June 30 would compensate for a slow first half.  
Harvey declined to give a profit forecast but said the company was "definitely not" heading down the same path as retailers David Jones Ltd, Country Road Ltd and Just Jeans Ltd, all of which have announced steep interim profit downgrades.
"If we have a flat result or if we were indeed between flat and 10 percent down, we are going to be disappointed," he said.
"But I can assure you it's our belief that it won't be less than a 10 percent decrease on last year and it's certainly our hope that it will be an increase on last yeaer's profit result.
"But, again, because of the nature of our business, it's just too early to tell," he said.  
Harvey Norman reported a dip in net profit after abnormals of A$30.41 million in 1995/96, but told shareholders at its annual meeting in November it looked forward to strong summer months from November to February.
But managing director Harvey said summer had so far been unseasonally cool in its east-coast markets, dampening sales of goods like air conditioners, refrigerators, fans, outdoor furniture and barbecues.
"That's really let us down more than anything else," he said. December and January are usually the firm's peak months.  
Harvey Norman is still hoping for a heatwave, but hot weather has its biggest impact on sales before Christmas when a lot of discretionary household expenditure is spent, he added.
The company is also pinning its hopes on a turnaround in consumer spending in the first half of calendar 1997 to enable Harvey Norman to reach its 15 percent sales target, but Harvey said there appeared to be little joy on the immediate horizon.
"Through last year we were basically saying it's got to turn in the second quarter of '97 calendar year, but at moment there's nothing to indicate that's going to happen...," he said.  
"My view is that next financial year starting July it will be a better year than this year and last year, but in terms of when it will actually start to turn, we are hoping...it will be the second quarter," Harvey said.
"I don't think we are going to see much joy in January, February, but it's our hope that things will turn come March, April, May, June," he said.
-- Melbourne Bureau 613-9286-1421
Boeing Co. took orders for a record 717 jets valued at $53 billion last year for a 64 percent share of the world market, company officials said Tuesday, adding that this year should be as good or better.
Figures compiled by Boeing show the Seattle-based aerospace giant had net orders for 559 airplanes with a "catalog" value of $42.8 billion after excluding cancellations and conversion.
That compared with 301 jets worth $21.6 billion for Boeing's European rival Airbus Industrie, which took a 32 percent share of the market.
McDonnell Douglas Corp., which Boeing has agreed to acquire, took net orders for 38 jets valued at $2.2 billion for a 3 percent share of the market for airplanes with 100 seats or more.
"Our customers put us on top again in 1996 because of the superior value of our complete family of airplanes," Boeing commercial airplane group President Ron Woodard said. "Our goal is to remain No. 1."
Woodard told reporters he expected 1997 to be as strong or stronger and said 1998 could see orders continue to roll in at a strong level as the international airline industry expands after the long downturn of the early 1990s.
"Airplanes are flying extremely full right now," Woodard said. "The orders we've seen to date are still catching up with what is a reasonable level given the demand.... It looks to us to be a pretty sustained, healthy cycle."
Boeing's order book went far beyond analyst expectations or the previous peak years of the late 1980s.
"It's an unbelievable year," said Paul Nisbet, analyst at JSA Research. "Nobody expected that at the beginning of the year.
Boeing's previous best year for total orders was 1990, the year the 777 was launched, when it took orders for 483 jets valued at $41.4 billion.
Calculating the order book each year is something of a public-relations exercise as airplane orders are frequently revised, cancelled or converted.
For example, Boeing's total is comprised mainly of firm orders, but the manufacturer also included its massive $6.5 billion order from American Airlines which was announced but not signed.
An Airbus spokesman said the European consortium did not include such "commitments" for an additional 172 airplanes received last year such as USAir Inc.'s stated intention to buy 120 jets worth at least $5 billion.
Nisbet said despite the gamesmanship, it seemed clear Boeing is on the way to its goal of a two-thirds share of the market, up from its historical 60 percent level.
Airbus will have about one-third of the market as virtually the only other player, assuming Boeing wins federal approval for its plan to absorb McDonnell Douglas, including its commercial jet operations.
The Airbus spokesman, David Venz, said the four-nation consortium still hoped to achieve its stated goal of a 50 percent market share around the turn of the century.
Airbus officials confirmed Tuesday they were negotiating with South Korean firms to help finance its planned A3XX jumbo jet, which would break the stranglehold on the lucrative top end of the market now held by Boeing's 747 jumbo jet.
Woodard said the business case for a new large jet was very difficult to make because of predictions the trans-Pacific market will "fragment" into less heavily travelled point-to-point routes rather than routes between the largest markets.
He noted that Boeing has not yet been able to drum up sufficient customer interest even to launch a stretch version of its 747, which would presumably be less expensive to develop than an all-new airplane.
Boeing delivered 218 airplanes last year, only slightly higher than the 206 delivered in 1995, when production was hampered by a 10-week strike.
Analyst Bill Whitlow of Pacific Crest Securities said he expected Boeing to deliver some 360 jets this year and 430 in 1998, based on announced increased in the company's production rates.
A lone Russian with a European record-breaking performance kept the Chinese women's swimming team from a clean sweep on the final day of the World Cup short-course series on Thursday.
The Chinese women struck gold by powering their way to eight victories in nine events, failing to capture only the 100 metres backstroke.
Nina Zhyvanevskaya of Russia took the crown in that event when she smashed the European record by a full 1.0 second with her time of 59.01 seconds.
In the other heats it was China all the way.
Wang Luna led Olympic gold medallist Claudia Poll throughout the 400 metres freestyle and not even a mid-contest surge by the powerful Costa Rican could propel her ahead of Wang, who clinched the win with a time of 4:05.45.
Rising star Chen Yan, who took home two golds in Wednesday's finals, emerged victorious in the 400 metres individual medley.
The 17-year-old also took silver in the 100 metres individual medley and bronze in the 100 metres backstroke.
Han Xie drew wild cheers from the crowd as she came within a hair's breadth of breaking the world record in the 50 metres breaststroke, clocking 31.00 seconds, just 0.02 second outside the record books.
The Chinese women's squad is seeking to re-establish world dominance after seven swimmers were banned in an embarrassing doping scandal at the 1994 Asian Games.
Lu Bin, who made her first appearance in an international event on Wednesday since she was suspended in the Asian Games scandal, placed a lowly sixth in the 100 metres backstroke.
Shan Ying glided to gold in the 100 metres freestyle, Qu Yun seized the title in the 200 metres butterfly and Mi Tong won the 200 metres breaststroke.
The women's gold haul was rounded out by Sun Guiling's victory in the 100 metres individual medley and Cai Huijue's 50 metres butterfly triumph.
China's men's team echoed their Wednesday night performance with a haul of three out of eight available golds.
Jiang Chengji outpaced Jamaican Sion Brinn in the 50 metres freestyle. Brinn won the 100 metres freestyle on Wednesday.
Australia's Adrian Radley captured gold with his time of 24.58 in the 50 metres backstroke while Marcel Wouda of the Netherlands notched up his third victory in Beijing with a win in the 200 metres individual medley.
Ian Wilson of Britain swam to a surprise victory in the 800 metres freestyle while German Jens Kruppa took the 100 metres breaststroke title.
The next leg of the eight-round World Cup series, which carries $150,000 in prize money, is on January 22-23 in Espoo, Finland.
Falling gold prices have recently drained much of the life from the Toronto Stock Exchange's key gold index and analysts say the bloodletting may not be over.
"Gold stocks are still reflecting a $380 gold price, but look at the price now," said gold analyst Mike Jalonen at brokerage Midland Walwyn in Toronto. "It's awful."
"I think people are writing the obituary for the Toronto gold index," said Vahid Fathi, a mining analyst at Everen Securities in Chicago. "They've been slaughtered."
The Comex February gold price has slid steadily since Dec. 30 to $355.70 an ounce on Wednesday from $370.90. Gold was up slightly in London on Thursday at $356.60.
Gold prices have slumped to three-year lows on a strong U.S. dollar, booming financial markets, low inflation, rising mine production and rumors of central bank selling.
Most analysts said the yellow metal was headed further south, but there was no consensus on the extent of the decline or when prices might recover.
The heavily weighted gold index in Toronto, Canada's biggest stock market, has dropped with the price of the metal, losing more than nine percent since Dec. 30.
Canada's biggest gold companies, Barrick Gold Corp. and Placer Dome Inc. have followed suit.
Barrick, the world's third largest gold producer, closed at C$35.55 on Wednesday, down from C$39.50 on Dec. 30. The stock rose slightly on Thursday to C$35.75. In New York, Barrick has fallen to 26-3/8 from 28-7/8 on Dec. 30.
Vancouver-based Placer Dome fell to a 52-week low of C$27.05 on Wednesday from C$30.90 on Dec. 30. It was up C$0.30 to C$27.35 on Thursday. In New York, Placer fell to 20-1/4 on Thursday from 22-5/8 on Dec. 30.
U.S. gold producers have also been hit. Newmont Mining Corp. was trading at 40 on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange, versus 45-1/4 on Dec. 30. Homestake Mining Co. was at 13 5/8 on Thursday in New York, down from 14-1/4 on Dec. 30.
Traditionally, Toronto gold stocks move up in tandem with the gold price, but do not react as strongly to a price decline.
Discoveries, takeover rumors and news from exploration companies that share the Toronto gold index with major producers generally temper the index's reaction to price slumps.
That is not the case now.
"At this point in time, the market is not even paying attention to special situations," said Fathi.
On Wednesday, almost every stock in the Toronto gold index fell except for diamond companies.
Midland Walwyn's Jalonen predicted Toronto golds would lose a further five percent before they stabilized.
Diversified producers such as Vancouver-based Teck Corp. were not as vulnerable as pure gold producers to steep drops in the gold price, Jalonen noted.
Bidders for a stake in troubled Czech aircraft maker Aero Vodochody a.s. must offer at least 950 million Czech crowns ($35 million) for the shares, Industry and Trade Minister Vladimir Dlouhy said on Thursday.
But he told a news conference that the tender, open to domestic and foreign bidders seeking to revitalise the light jet maker, might be geared toward choosing a Czech partner.
Between 34 and 40 percent of Aero will be sold, depending on how many new shares are issued during the deal, rules for which the cabinet approved on Wednesday.
Dlouhy said a steering committee would evaluate bids in the tender, which is expected to open by the end of the month, based on bidders' economic strength, obligations to other shareholders and their strategic position.
The Czech chemical and arms conglomerate Chemapol Group a.s. has shown an interest in Aero, as well as local trading company CIMEX Holding a.s., and Boeing Co of the United States in an alliance with Czech airline Ceske Aerolinie a.s..
Dlouhy said Aero shareholders controlled by the state would pass their shareholders' rights to the new investor to allow it to manage the company from a majority position.
The winner of the tender, ultimately picked by the cabinet, should be known in April.
Dlouhy said strategic considerations might persuade the steering committee to pick a Czech domestic partner for Aero.
"If, for example, the Defence Ministry submits arguments which persuade the commission that it is necessary... to prefer a domestic investor, it will be a criterion ... followed by the commission.
"But we do not want to consider it open only for domestic companies from the beginning," he said.
Shareholders of the debt-strapped company approved a cut in Aero's basic capital last month to one million crowns from 962 million, as part of an overall a financial restructuring plan. They also agreed to underwrite a rights issue to raise equity to between 1.74 and 2.5 billion crowns as a part of the deal.
Aero is pinning hopes of recovering from financial problems on its flagship L-159, a light training subsonic fighter currently in its final stages of development, which is to be equipped with Rockwell International Corp avionics.
The Czech army has signed up to buy 72 L-159s, and the government has already approved a 3.26 billion crown package clearing the heavily indebted company's books.
Other criteria approved by the cabinet include that Aero will not pay out dividends until production of L-159 starts, and that the investor has to pay most of the price of the shares from his own assets, not on credit.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003 ($1=27.30 Czech Crown)
Russia's metals sectors, key suppliers to world markets, showed varying degrees of concern about President Boris Yeltsin's latest ailment on Thursday, but most said they were no longer hostage to Kremlin health scares.
Aluminium officials were the least worried and said the Russian leader's admission to hospital with pneumonia on Wednesday would not affect production or exports.
"It's business as usual," said Galina Stelmakova, deputy director for development and investment at AO Kontsern Alyuminiy, the producers' group.
"Yeltsin hasn't the slightest relationship to the aluminium sector. If anybody has anything to do with us, it's (Prime Minister Viktor) Chernomyrdin."
Russia supplies 15 percent of the world aluminium market.
London Metal Exchange aluminium prices -- which in the past have swung on Kremlin health dramas -- ignored Yeltsin's pneumonia and hit a seven-month high of $1,602.
London palladium prices rose on Russia's continuing failure to sign 1997 export contracts with Japan, the world's largest consumer of platinum group metals, including palladium.
But a senior precious metals official said Yeltsin's illness would have no effect on the contracts -- despite the fact that Russia's precious metals industries are tightly controlled by the highest government officials.
Alexander Kulichkov, a deputy director in charge of platinum and palladium exports at export agency Almazjuvelirexport, said contracts to supply Japan depended upon the Duma lower house of parliament passing a delayed federal budget and on the government in general, headed by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin.
Nickel and copper producer Norilsk Nickel which received major support when Yeltsin signed a decree in 1996 promising state aid -- was keeping an eye on the health crisis.
"Indirectly of course we are concerned because Yeltsin did sign a decree promising help," said spokesman Sergei Vetchinin.
Norilsk is the world's second largest nickel producer and also produces platinum and platinum group metals.
Russian non-ferrous metals enterprises have not yet released official 1996 output and export figures and forecasts for 1997.
Icy relations with Washington appear to be thawing and Colombia has its eyes firmly fixed on overturning its status as an international drug pariah by this spring, diplomats and government officials say.
Colombia spent most of last year smarting at the U.S. decision to "decertify" it -- strike it off its list of allies in the drug war -- citing lax anti-narcotics laws and President Ernesto Samper's alleged ties with drug lords. That led to a cut in U.S. aid and sparked angry protests by Bogota.
But, in an about-turn from his normally hostile stance, U.S. Ambassador Myles Frechette had glowing words of praise for the Colombian government on Wednesday.
"We're very impressed by the teamwork demonstrated by the foreign relations, defence and justice ministers (in anti-drug matters). I have now sent my report and that will have to be reviewed and evaluated in Washington," he said.
His comments, at a funeral service for a U.S. civilian pilot killed on an anti-drug mission in Colombia, contrasted with his criticism of anti-drug legislation in Colombia's Congress late last year, which caused a political storm.
Now Colombian authorities are hoping the appointment of outgoing Defence Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra as ambassador to Washington, a successful drug crop eradication programme and a new law to strip cocaine kingpins of their assets will convince the United States to recertify Colombia.
"We continue showing great political willpower to combat narco-trafficking and contribute to an efficient international struggle. Colombia deserves to be recognised and re-evaluated for the fight it has been waging on drugs," Col. Leonardo Gallego, head of the police anti-narcotics division, said.
Esguerra will take up his diplomatic post on Jan. 20 and has pledged to "hammer on all the relevant doors" in a bid to win back certification and the U.S. aid that would entail.
Former Justice Minister Enrique Parejo, an anti-drug crusader who survived an assassination attempt ordered by the late drug lord Pablo Escobar in the late 1980s, told Reuters on Thursday he thought it was likely Colombia would regain certification in March, but he still questioned Bogota's commitment to fighting the drug cartels head on.
"The jailed kingpins of the Cali drug cartel continue running their criminal empires from behind bars and in the short term I don't see the political will or the operational efficiency to be able to launch a frontal assault on drug trafficking," Parejo said.
"Colombia has been pressured by the United States into toughening its stance but I think Samper is looking to do just the bare minimum to regain certification," he added.
The United States annually certifies about 30 countries based on their cooperation in the international fight against drug production and trafficking. Decertification leads to a cut in most U.S. aid not linked to the fight against drugs.
In practical terms, Colombia has not suffered greatly from the reduction in aid because most of the U.S. financial help it receives is aimed at anti-drug programmes. Colombia is due to take delivery of 18 helicopters from the United States this year, enabling police to step up its drug crop eradication programme, seen as one of the most ambitious in Latin America.
China is awash with steel and suppliers scrambling for a piece of one of the world's few active markets and keeping prices down while they go about it, traders and industry executives in Asia said on Tuesday. "The competition is forcing prices down," a senior executive with a Western firm said.
Prices had fallen 10 percent and more over the past couple of months, an executive with a Japanese steelmaker said.
Cold-rolled steel was fetching between $400 and $430 a tonne, he said, galvanized steel up to $100 less than that.  
He and other sources repeated reports of hundreds of thousands of tonnes of galvanized steel stacked up at Chinese ports, but these could not be confirmed.
Steel industry figures said China was flooded with cheap steel, much of it from the former Soviet Union, and most gave a pessimistic outlook for the recovery of the Chinese market.
"I can't see the bottom yet," the Japanese executive said. "People have been hoping for a recovery, but I think there is no hope for improvement within this year."  
Figures published in the official Chinese press in July showed imports of steel billet and rolled steel in the first five months of 1995 at 6.83 million tonnes, up 18.9 percent on the same 1995 period.
Exports of these products were down 31.8 percent, to 2.59 million tonnes, in the January-May period, press reports said.
A flood into Asia of European steel makers fleeing soft markets at home has increased the choice of quality products in China five-fold, the Western source said.  
Steel stockpiles that had been mounting since the phenomenal buying of 1993 -- when 33 million tonnes of steel entered the country -- were slowly being whittled away, traders said.
Total 1994 imports were 22 million tonnes. In 1995, they were 15 million.
Jason Zheng, senior China and regional steel analyst at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, said he estimated China's steel stockpile at 30 million tonnes.
The quality was unknown but doubtful, he said, and so should not dent China's need for high quality product.  
China would probably import between 12 and 15 million tonnes of steel in 1996, trade and industry sources said.
"What they need is a quality they can't get at home," the Western executive said.
Imports from the Commonwealth of Independent States were falling, Zheng said, "because it is low quality stuff and if you only have 12 to 15 million tonnes of imports, you must have a higher quality product coming in".
However, industry sources said China's steel market was weak and beset by a lack of cash for buyers -- and a rising incidence of contract washouts.  
"Buyers are not willing to pay for their orders, not just because they don't have the cash, but because the price drops between order and delivery time and they are rejecting the cargoes or asking us to reduce the price," the Japanese executive said
A source with another Japanese steelmaker said major Japanese mills had cut their prices by 10 to 15 percent to hold on to their Chinese customers.
"So the obvious trend is that demand is not growing as the Japanese mills had expected and as a result they have a lot of surplus to push onto the market," he said.  
"The problem is that even though China's state-owned manufacturers are trying to produce more, they are having problems getting hard currency to buy the raw materials."
China's annual steel demand was around 95 million tonnes, trading sources said.
China's Ministry of Metallurgical Industry said in July that steel demand would reach an annual 120 million tonnes by 2000.
The Ministry set an annual output target of 130 million tonnes by 2000, and said production would increase by five million tonnes a year between 1996 and 2000.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
China warned the United States on Thursday that slowly warming Sino-U.S. ties could be complicated if Washington decided to confront Beijing on the issue of human rights.
"If the human rights question is made into an issue to interfere in China's internal affairs, then this problem will become more and more complicated," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a regular news briefing.
"The Chinese government cannot accept... using the human rights question to put pressure on the Chinese government or to interfere in China's internal affairs," Shen said.
Repeated clashes over human rights and issues ranging from Taiwan to copyright piracy sent Sino-U.S. relations into a tailspin in 1995 and 1996, and ties have only recently started to recover with a series of high-level official meetings.
Differences in U.S. and Chinese views towards human rights were normal and could be resolved through talks, Shen said.
"But if you are confrontational then the basis for dialogue will be lost," Shen said in response to a question about China's reaction to comments by U.S. Secretary of State-designate Madeleine Albright which slammed Beijing's human rights record.
Albright said at her Senate confirmation hearing in Washington on Wednesday that the United States could co-sponsor a resolution criticising China's human rights record and present it before the United Nations Human Rights Commission when it meets in Geneva early this year.
Last April, China succeeded in quashing a U.S.-backed draft resolution at the commission expressing concern over continuing reports of Chinese violations of fundamental freedoms.
The human rights situation in China had not improved much since the forwarding of last year's resolution, Albright said.
But she said Washington's focus towards Beijing would be on "Chinese integration, not isolation" and that she still supported the separation of human rights issues from trade.
In 1995, U.S. President Bill Clinton delinked annual renewal of China's Most Favoured Nation trade benefits from Beijing's human rights record, a move hailed by Beijing.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher visited Beijing last November but made little public mention of human rights, in contrast to his 1994 trip that ended in disaster because of wrangling over the issue.
Christopher pledged not to allow Sino-U.S. ties to be derailed by any single issue.
Clinton met his Chinese counterpart Jiang Zemin at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in the Philippines last December, when the two leaders agreed to an exchange of state visits in 1997.
Washington has criticised Beijing for its imprisonment of political dissidents and for its heavy-handed rule in Tibet but China defends its human rights record by pointing to rising living standards and booming economic growth.
China jailed several prominent dissidents in 1996 as part of its obsession with stability coupled with the easing of foreign pressure on its human rights record, activists have said.
The official Xinhua news agency said meanwhile that China and the United States had agreed to hold another round of talks this month aimed at hammering out a new textile pact.
The bilateral pact had been scheduled to expire on December 31 last year but was extended until January 31 amid progress on renewing the 1994 accord. The talks will begin in Beijing on January 27.
China must tackle the thorny task of state enterprise reform this year, forcing through unpopular layoffs and bankruptcies to halt haemorrhaging losses, economic tsar Vice Premier Zhu Rongji said on Thursday.
Zhu hailed such achievements in 1996 as a high economic growth rate of 9.7 percent, a fall in inflation to 6.0 percent and the swelling of foreign exchange reserves to a record $105 billion at the year-end.
However, he cited two urgent tasks that must be tackled in 1997 -- increasing grain reserves and ensuring incentives to farmers and halting rapidly mounting losses among the state enterprises that form the backbone of China's economy.
About 75 percent of China's more than 100,000 state firms lost money last year and total losses in the government sector soared to 69 billion yuan ($8.3 billion) between January and October, a year-on-year rise of 45 percent.
Zhu blamed the losses on two increases in state prices for farm products, hikes in costs of transport and power, tighter accounting mechanisms, high interest rate payments despite two cuts last year and arbitrary fees by local governments.
However, these were secondary reasons, Zhu told a meeting in Beijing on re-employment in state enterprises.
The three main reasons were duplication of products, the impact of widespread smuggling and the burden of huge numbers of surplus workers employed in state firms, Zhu said.
Many state firms, accustomed to mass-production for a command economy, have struggled to adjust to China's new consumer-led markets and continue to churn out millions of yuan worth of unsaleable goods.
Tackling these problems must be a priority in 1997, he said, if China is to turn around inefficient state enterprises that recorded their first net loss in the first quarter of last year as they struggled in an economy racing to abandon the cushion of central planning in favour of a sink-or-swim marketplace.
Zhu called for reorganising management in state enterprises this year, citing bad management as a major factor in growing losses, and urged active promotion of re-employment projects to help surplus workers or those laid off through streamlining.
He also urged standardisation of the bankruptcy system, which has been used mainly on an experimental basis for the past few years, along with encouragement of mergers.
While proposing the use of mergers rather than bankruptcy to eliminate loss-making state firms, he advised against the sale of an entire company and favoured enterprises taking on a portion of the ailing firm's debt.
The government would write off up to 30 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) of bad debt this year, and this figure could rise gradually in the next few years, Zhu said.
On agriculture, Zhu revealed for the first time the size of China's state grain reserves, which totalled a record 148.5 million tonnes at the end of 1996. That marked an increase of 34.4 million tonnes compared with the end of 1995, he said.
China has estimated its 1996 grain harvest at a record 480 million tonnes, up from a record 466 million tonnes in 1995.
Market prices for grain would not fall and Zhu urged farmers not to sell their grain at low prices to private traders.
Beijing is anxious that farmers continue to grow grain and not turn to more lucrative cash crops and wants to insure that farm incomes do not drop with the record harvests.
Regulators set aside a chunk of airwaves Thursday to let schools, businesses, communities and others bypass phone lines and send video images, data and voice over their own local wireless computer networks.
The Federal Communications Commission's decision, for example, will allow a school to create a high-speed wireless network among classrooms that could then hook up to the World Wide Web, the multimedia portion of the Internet.
That way, the school can avoid the costs of rewiring a building with high-capacity phone lines for computer use. Drilling through walls with asbestos can be expensive.
"In many buildings, including schools, a wireless connection will be a cost-effective alternative to pulling wire through walls and ceilings," said Commissioner Susan Ness.
Hospitals, community groups, companies and libraries also could create local high-speed networks in a building, or link up with computers and printers in nearby facilities or communities.
Users of the new spectrum will not need an FCC license, just like users of baby monitors and cordless phones that also operate over the radio spectrum.
And users will be able to cram more data on a high-speed wireless network than over a traditional phone line.
Computers equipped with antennas are expected to allow consumers, businesses, hospitals and others to create the networks. Now that the FCC has set aside the spectrum, companies are set to produce the needed technology. The equipment, when it is available, must receive FCC approval.
"Companies can now go ahead and build products for use in the spectrum," said Eric DeSilva, an attorney representing the Wireless Information Networks Forum. The consortium is made up of Lucent Technologies Inc., International Business Machines Corp. and other companies promoting wireless networks.
Government and industry officials said potential applications abound.
Hospitals staffers could receive on-the-spot patient data or X-rays over a wireless network throughout the building. Or a neighbourhood group could communicate within a community over the airwaves via computer.
The FCC set power limits on the different spectrum bands that will be used so that existing users of the airwaves -- such as satellites and high-powered government radar systems -- will not face interference.
Operators over the lowest spectrum band will be restricted to indoor use. Users of the middle band will be able to operate over a wider area, such as a college campus. And those using the highest band will be able to operate over several kilometres, such as within a community or with a nearby community.
U.S. retailers reported overall sales near plan for the key December holiday shopping month Thursday, but results varied widely by store and sector with department stores appearing to take some market share from specialty stores.
"The major retailers continue to gain market share," said Michael Niemira, analyst with Bank of Tokyo/Mitsubishi Ltd. "Even within the Sears report, they talk about the electronics area being one of the stronger areas" while that area was weak for retailers overall."  
Sears, Roebuck and Co was one of the better performers, analysts said. The Hoffman Estates, Ill.-based retailer said domestic same-store sales rose 9.5 percent.
Sears chairman Arthur Martinez told CNBC that gross margins are very favorable for December and the fourth quarter.
Sears stock was up 1-1/8 at 46-3/8 Thursday. Other gainers included Paul Harris Stores Inc, up 1-7/8 at 20-1/2, Kohl's Corp, up 1-1/4 at 37-3/4, Dayton Hudson Corp up one at 37-3/8 and Saks Holdings Inc up 5/8 at 39-5/8.
A senior executive of Netscape Communications Corp said the company sees no sign of any reduction in the dramatic growth in the market for Internet and intranet, and expects to hold onto a good share of the market.
Mike Homer, vice president of marketing, also said in an interview the company currently has around 50 million users of its Netscape Navigator software for browsing the Internet, comprising roughly 75 percent of the total browser market.
Critical approval for its new Communicator software now being publicly previewed has topped expectations, he added.  
"We're holding market share. The market's growing very dramatically, we see no signs of that abating," Homer said in a telephone interview. "We have a great new product coming, so it gives us every reason to believe that we're going to continue to do really well."
Homer declined to comment on the company's expected results for the fourth quarter, ending December 31, or on the current quarter, citing the quiet period ahead of the earnings report that is expected to be released on January 28.
Shares of Netscape tumbled 10-7/8 earlier to close at 47-7/8 following an analyst's downgrade of the stock.  
The analyst, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell's William Gurley, said in a research report he trimmed his rating to accumulate from a buy due partly to the stock's proximity to his target of $60 and partly to concern over its major product transition, and its shift to a new pricing model and a longer sales cycle.
Homer declined to talk about revenue expectations, but said that of the reviews to date for the Communicator product first shown on December 23, "95 percent are incredibly positive."  
"It's a better reception than any product we've ever done so far. It's going to be a smash hit product," he predicted.
Homer also projected the electronic mail component of the product will overtake rival e-mail products this year.
He said around 90 percent of Netscape's enterprise customers are on a yearly subscription basis.
"There's really no delaying (of revenue) based on these product cycles," he said. "It may be the case that a new product will bring in new users because customers get excited about it, so there's definitely upside."  
The Communicator is expected to undergo substantial preview testing, before being finalized in the second quarter.
"The most important indicator of our success is our new product acceptance, and Communicator has exceeded all of our best expectations, so I think that's all a good picture for the next couple of quarters," he added.
Homer said he expects SweetSpot server products to continue growing rapidly and repeated he sees no price pressure on the browser product despite Microsoft Corp's free distribution of its Internet Explorer browser software.
Goldman Sachs analyst Michael Parekh said the consensus revenue estimate for the fourth 1996 quarter is around $115 million, with his own estimate slightly below that at $114.5 million, rising slightly to $115.8 million in the March quarter.
"The fundamentals continue to be intact," he said.
Gurley warned he did not see the upside surprise in the December quarter that Netscape has shown in recent quarters.
((-- Palo Alto Bureau +1 415 846 5400))
British banks have a made a positive start to 1997.
Share prices are buoyant and analysts on Thursday saw few serious clouds on the horizon to jolt the sector out of its seemingly inexorable rise.
The sctor, which has outperformed the FTSE 100 index by around 20 percent over the past six months, has become more diverse in recent years.
But, for differing reasons, analysts are quietly confident that based on a benign economic environment, the banks should continue to show good profit growth.
There are also positive stories to be told on an individual basis with Barclays and National Westminster, for example, expected to offer further share buybacks and HSBC and Standard Chartered set to continue reaping the benefits of their strong Far East franchise.
"The Far East is still looking attractive and we still have Standard Chartered on an outperform rating," said Nick Collier, banking analyst at Morgan Stanley. "We also like Natwest, it's the cheapest stock in the sector, and looks likely to emerge with a more compelling story in 1997,"
Analysts expect NatWest to consolidate its recent heavy acquisition programme and spend possibly 300 million pounds on buying back shares as its Tier One capital ratio measure rises. Barclays is also expected to continue repurchases on which it has already spent around one billion pounds.
Lloyds TSB could also eventually join the share buy-back club as its capital ratios improve, though most analysts do not see this happening before 1998.
Salomon Brothers banking analyst John Leonard said he expects the British economic outlook to remain favourable.
The strength of sterling, while affecting those banks that report dollar income in sterling, looks set to keep the lid on inflation and interest rates, a scenario the banks should be able to deal with.
If rates were to rise more than expected then that could be a problem for bank share prices if the market thought bad debt provisions were set to rise.
On the other hand, many analysts are not convinced by the link between interest rates and bank share prices.
"It's sometimes dificult to tell what causes prices to fall from the outside," said one analyst who declined to be named. "Bank shares have done very well in recent years and operators may well take profits on any (market) setback to lock them away. But that doesn't mean they have changed their view."
On domestic banking, analysts are happy that banks have been moving more into higher-margin personal sector borrowing at the expense of the lower margins seen in the corporate sector.
But they are less happy about the competitive mortgage market which, despite an upturn, is hardly setting the world alight.
While bad debts remain stable, net bad debt charges could rise as releases of old provisions work their way out of the system.
Other share markets could also have an influence, analysts say.
Some investors compare the British and U.S. bank sectors and last year, the U.S. rather lost out. If this were to turn, then the British banks could come under some pressure, said Salomon's Leonard.
But analysts are already a little nervous given that the banks' good run has continued with such strength.
"Some stocks are definitely looking less compelling given the rush of blood we've seen in the New Year," said one.
British Telecommunications Plc is likely to brush off Japanese telecom giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp's statement that it hopes to move into the global market independently, analysts said on Thursday.
BT, along with most of its global telecoms rivals, has long sought to link up with NTT and gain a foothold in the lucrative Asian markets. The company's top bosses, who regularly travel to Japan, are meeting NTT executives this month, BT confirmed.
NTT, which only last month won regulatory approval to offer international services as part of a move to restructure the company, said earlier this week that it hoped to pursue an independent approach to gain customers in the global market -- rather than seek tie-ups with interational rivals.
However, analysts said NTT's views, published in a newspaper interview, were more likely to be a negotiating ploy.
"I suspect the interpretation is that this is an entirely rational approach by NTT to indicate that it can, if necessary, go alone," said Laurence Heyworth, telecoms analyst at Robert Fleming Securities.
"Obviously that does improve its negotiating position with regard to potential partners as well," he added.
BT confirmed that chairman Sir Iain Vallance, who is in India with British Prime Minister John Major as part of a tour to boost British trade, will travel on to Japan on Friday to meet NTT executives.
Sir Peter Bonfield, BT's chief executive, will also meet NTT and other organisations in Japan at the end of this month. But the company said these visits had long been scheduled and were not a knee-jerk reaction to NTT's independence stance.
"This is something that has been planned for a long time and yes, they will be meeting people from NTT and indeed other organisations in Japan...as you would expect. It is an important area," a BT spokesman said.
BT has an office in Japan and this year appointed its first regional director in Japan in a move to highlight the importance of the area. It already has a minor link with one of NTT's units, NTT Data, which distributes its Concert Internet Plus services.
But BT also reiterated that while NTT, the world's biggest telecoms company, would be a good partner, there were others it could talk to.
BT has small stakes in mobile telephone operations in Japan.
Most global telecoms groups, for whom the key to success in the increasingly competitive market is global reach, are keen to move into Asia -- an area where few are well represented.
"I think that every major telecommunications grouping is harbouring hopes of linking up with Japan. Clearly NTT is the largest telecom company in the world and provides local access to one of the most impenetrable markets in the world as well," Heyworth said.
BT last November announced a $20 billion merger with America's MCI Communications in a move partly to increase its clout and make it more attractive to potential Asian partners.
Standard Chartered Plc group chief executive Malcolm Williamson said on Thursday he expected the British-based bank to form more strategic alliances in Asia with U.S. and European banks.
In 1996, Standard formed joint ventures in Asia with Westpac Banking Corp, First Chicago NBD Corp and Massachusetts-based Fleet Financial Services.
"We have another string of deals lined up in Europe and America which we are hoping to execute along similar lines," Williamson told Reuters in a telephone interview.  
The bank will make further annoucements on the planned ventures when it releases its 1996 year results in late February or early March, Williamson said.
Standard has a network of branches throughout Asia and Africa along with offices in London, New York and Sydney.
Williamson said it was difficult for foreign banks to enter Asia as bank licences were hard to get from regulatory bodies.
There was no limit to the amount of ventures Standard could set up with banks that want to enter the Asian market as it could offer the services of its bank partner through the Standard Asian branch network, Williamson said.  
However it was unlikely that Standard would do another deal with an Australian bank which could jeopardise its newly-formed relationship with Westpac, said Williamson, who is on a visit to the bank's Australian operations.
Williamson said Standard was not interested in any equity swap with any banks it forms a strategic alliance with.
"Reports there might be about a share exchange with Westpac would not be relevant to us because we wouldn't want to get into a special relationship with one party when you are trying to deal with many parties in other parts of the world," he said.  
Williamson said Standard was on track to achieve his target set three years ago to double the bank's profit.
He said three years ago the bank made 400 million stg annual profit.
"We made 400 million (stg) in the first six months of this year (1996), so that puts us well on target for reaching our goal," he said.
The bank plans to launch consumer finance operations and credit card services in Asia, where it has had operations since the 1850s, he added. "There is a lot of investment we want to make in order to protect the bank's future," he said.  
The bank had to make more investment into cash management systems and the corporate banking market in Asia, he said.
"We see no surplus of capital in the foreseeable future as we are ploughing so much back into the business," he said.
He said Standard had no plans to exit its African business.
"We make good profits out of Africa and we intend on staying there, because we get a very good return for our shareholders," Williamson said.
He also said the bank was no longer a takeover target as it was in the early 1990s when its share price was languishing.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
China has placed one of its largest investment trusts, stung by real estate losses, under administrative custody, and officials said on Thursday that more such financial firms may suffer a similar fate.
The People's Bank of China, the central bank, ordered the China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment Corp (CADTIC) placed under the administration of two state banks in early January, local bank officials said.
CADTIC's domestic business had been taken over by the China Construction Bank while its overseas business had become the responsibility of the Bank of China, a construction bank official said.
Bankers said the financial firm that was China's biggest investment trust company after the China International Trust and Investment Corp (CITIC) had overextended itself due to serious mismanagement.
"CADTIC grew too big, it set up too many local branches and its scope of business was too wide," one banker said.
It had extended its business beyond its officially sanctioned scope -- agriculture -- and suffered large losses from real estate investments and had also invested in securities, a banker in Hong Kong said. The huge investment entity was owned by the Ministry of Agriculture.
"This underlines what we suspect -- that irregularities involving firms supposed to be engaged in agriculture business are fairly widespread," said a Hong Kong banker who declined to be identified.
"They are all fairly overexposed to property," he said.
Bank officials said there were no plans yet to close the trust company, but did not rule out that it might be sold off in the future.
A Construction Bank official declined to say whether the bank had plans to buy any or all of the trust company's assets.
The trust firm was still engaged in business as usual, said one CADTIC official who declined to be identified.
The Construction Bank had taken over management of CADTIC's domestic debts while the Bank of China was handling its overseas commitments.
Officials of the central bank declined to comment.
The ministries of Agriculture and Finance began an investigation into the financial situation of the company a year ago, an official of the investment company said earlier.
"It is not possible to shut down CADTIC immediately because the knock-on effects would be very large, there would be a series of problems," said one local banker. "It should be taken over by the banks."
Unlike China's state-owned banks, which can easily attract deposits but face tight restrictions on loans, the financial institutions can operate without any loan limitations, he said.
China was stepping up supervision of financial institutions, and new, tighter rules and more frequent checks were expected to result in several more such actions against firms engaged in irregular business, he said.
Financial institutions could be taken over, ordered to stop business or to merge, he said. Many that had little business, large debts and large losses were expected to close, he said, but declined to give details of the irregularities.
CADTIC has reported assets of about 30 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) and outstanding loans from such international financial institutions as the World Bank.
The Asian Development Bank just last month arranged a $70 million loan through CADTIC to a $185 million fish protection project in the Bohai and Yellow Seas.
Macromedia Inc. shares plunged to a two-year low Friday after the software company reported an unexpected third-quarter loss and said it could face weak sales for another quarter.
Some analysts said they also were concerned that Apple Computer Inc.'s declining sales could hurt Macromedia's revenue from sale of software for Macintosh computers in coming quarters.
Shares of the San Francisco graphics software vendor fell $4.19, or 31 percent, to $9.31 in Nasdaq trading -- the lowest price since December 1994.
Macromedia on Thursday reported a loss of $2.36 million, or 6 cents a share, for its fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with net income of $7.15 million, or 18 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago. Third-quarter revenue fell 9 percent to $28.1 million from $30.9 million.
Wall Street expected Macromedia to report net income of 14 cents a share, according to a recent survey of analysts by First Call.
Macromedia gets about half its revenue from Director, a computer program that helps graphic artists make animated clips for video games and multimedia software.
Macromedia customers are putting off Director purchases until the company releases a new version in a couple of months, analysts said.
"We are left with the concern that there will be a dip in revenue" in the fourth quarter as well, said Kevane Wong, analyst at brokerage firm Jefferies &amp; Co. in San Francisco.
Macromedia also gets about 60 percent of its revenue from Macintosh software sales. A slow rollout of high-end Macintosh PCs in Europe led to slow European sales for Macromedia as well, said Ed Bierdeman, analyst at Dakin Securities.
"The Mac market is like a block of ice melting in the sun," leaving many Mac software vendors, including Macromedia, to suffer, Bierdeman said.
Macromedia likely will post a small loss in its fiscal fourth quarter, ending in March, Bierdeman said.
Several analysts also said they were concerned Macromedia might not be able to finish the new version of Director until spring, which would jeopordize earnings until the quarter ended in June.
Macromedia officials could not be reached for comment immediately.
Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth said on Friday U.S. cigarette makers had delayed harsh revelations about the industry with a surprising decision to end pre-trial opposition to punitive damages in the state's multi-billion dollar anti-tobacco lawsuit.
Butterworth told Reuters a court hearing set for January 24 on the punitive claims to be added to any other jury awards would have made public information he alleged would have been highly damaging about the industry's marketing and medical research, contained in 27,000 pages of court-sealed documents.  
"I liken it to a criminal trial in which the defendant tries to suppress evidence that would prove him guilty," Butterworth said.  "They want to delay.  It's their best short-term ploy."
Florida is one of 18 states suing U.S. cigarette companies to recoup billions of dollars spent through government healthcare programs on treating people made ill by smoking.  A trial in the Florida lawsuit filed by Butterworth is set for August 4.  
Philip Morris Cos Inc and other cigarette companies, complaining of likely bad publicity, earlier dropped pre-trial opposition to punitive claims by the State of Florida.  The state is seeking to recoup $1 billion or more for treating Medicaid costs from 1994.
Philip Morris Cos Inc lawyer Gregory Little said in a news release that the industry's decision had no legal effect and that the industry had never paid punitive damages in any lawsuit.  
Little said a key reason for the industry's decision was a worry that the state's lawyers would present evidence against cigarette makers during a public, pre-trial hearing.  Tobacco lawyers would be severly restricted in defending against the evidence during the hearing, he said.
"The lawyers for the state of Florida have demonstrated a remarkable propensity for trying their case in the media," Little said.
He accused anti-tobacco lawyers in Florida of leaking documents to reporters.  
"... The January 24 hearing -- which was already window dressed for media consumption with a 442-page brief and 12 boxes of documents -- would have done nothing other than provide a platform for the plaintiffs' lawyers to once again trumpet their case making it difficult for all parties to seat an unbiased jury," Little said.
Other tobacco companies, including RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, have accused anti-tobacco lawyers of selective and unfair leaks to the media.  
Butterworth said he was forbidden by court order from detailing the damaging information in the documents but said 90 percent of the material came from industry internal documents. Much of the material was gathered by other attorneys general, many of whom are cooperating in their anti-tobacco lawsuits.
"It's nearly all their documents, all about their marketing practices, their science ... and they are giving up everything to avoid publicity," Butterworth said.
"This is a 100 percent victory for the state," he said of the industry's decision.
"The only downside is that disclosure of the documents is delayed."
A trial in the lawsuit is scheduled to begin on August 4 in West Palm Beach, Florida.
-- Miami bureau, 305-373-5014
The world's gold producers will likely pay dearly for the steep fall in the bullion price and the deep uncertainty overhanging the gold market.
If the bullion price weakness continues or worsens, gold miners face lower profits, money-losing operations, closed mines, slashed exploration budgets and plunging share prices.
Analysts predict smaller companies will be increasingly vulnerable to takeovers as industry conditions get rougher.
"Earnings are going to be terrible," said gold analyst Michael Fowler at Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion in Toronto. "There have already been some mines that have shut and there could be a few more. And consolidation is likely to continue."
Gold, which was fixed at $358.55 an ounce in London on Friday, has lost more than $13 since the start of the new year, and few analysts believe the decline is finished.
The low price has already taken its toll on Canadian gold stocks, knocking the Toronto Stock Exchange's heavily weighted gold index down more than nine percent since Dec. 30.
At least two companies have announced shutdowns of marginal mines recently. Toronto-based TVX Gold Inc. said earlier this week it would close its Casa Berardi gold mine in Quebec. In December, Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc. said it would sell two small mines in Quebec and stop work at its high-cost Paymaster mine in Northern Ontario.
"That can certainly happen again," said Jim Taylor, mining analyst with Yorkton Securities in London. "The high-cost producers are certainly vulnerable."
The effect will begin to show in fourth-quarter earnings, and earnings in the first quarter of 1997 will certainly reflect the low bullion price, according to analysts.
If Merrill Lynch's predictions of an average 1997 gold price of between $370 and $375 an ounce hold true, it could spell earnings trouble for many producers.
Merrill Lynch analyst David Christensen predicted that U.S. gold firm Homestake Mining Co.'s earnings for the year would drop to about 13 cents a share if gold averaged $370. Homestake would earn 22 cents a share at a gold price of $385.
Companies that do not hedge their gold sales -- such as Homestake, Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Battle Mountain Gold Co. and Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd. -- were especially vulnerable, Christensen said. Other analysts mentioned Royal Oak Mines Inc. and Pegasus Gold Inc. as prime victims of a lower price.
"A surprisingly large number of these companies are marginal -- companies that you wouldn't traditionally think of being marginal producers," he said.
Companies that rely on the spot price of gold "are fully exposed to a decline in the gold price," Christensen noted. "They're all either spot sellers or don't have significant forward selling. They'll all be negatively affected in terms of earnings and cash flow."
One exception was U.S.-based Newmont Mining Corp., which would likely see earnings rise in 1997 because of projects ready to start this year, he added. His projection did not take into account the potential acquisition of Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp..
Even companies with solid hedging programs, such as Canada-based Barrick Gold Corp., will likely find their share prices hit along with the gold price.
"This is a sentiment swing," said gold analyst Manford Mallory with Research Capital in Toronto. Investors do not usually differentiate between hedgers and non-hedgers when the gold price starts to drop, he added.
Although some analysts believe a few more marginal projects could bite the dust if the gold price stays low, most say the production effects of lower gold prices will become apparent in decisions to delay development.
"Most of these companies will continue to produce as long as they are cash flow positive as opposed to earnings positive," said Christensen.
But as earnings start to drop, one of the first casualties will likely be exploration budgets. While some 1997 exploration commitments have been made, high-cost companies could find themselves slashing any flexible plans in order to cut their losses.
Exploration companies will become more vulnerable to takeover moves from larger companies with strong cash flow, analysts said. As the low price of gold discourages investors, junior companies will find it more difficult to raise money for exploration programs.
"The capital is drying up," said analyst Daniel McConvey of Lehman Brothers in New York.
The smaller companies may well see their share prices drop, making it cheaper for companies laden with cash to swallow them.
Toronto-based Kinross Gold Corp. a mid-tier producer, said it plans to take advantage of the sector weakness to expand.
"I would classify us as a predator," Kinross spokesman Gord McReary said in an interview. "We think we're in a very privileged position. We're in the kind of strange situation where maybe some of the bad news for the sector can be good news for us," he said.
Gold equities in Australia may also be knocked down by lower gold prices, said analyst Taylor. But since many Australian companies hedge their sales, earnings will not be hurt as much as among some companies in North America.
In South Africa, however, analysts expect first-quarter earnings to be trampled by low gold prices.
In Mexico, mining giants Industrias Penoles and Grupo Mexico will probably not alter their expansion plans for polymetallic mines with high gold contents but will see slightly differing bottom-line impacts.
Security forces in Chad have summarily executed scores of people since a November official decree sanctioned instant justice for criminals caught in the act, local human rights officials said on Friday.
A pregnant woman, streetchildren and supected thieves are among victims of public executions reported, but human rights groups fear scores of other killings were carried out secretly.
"The policy has been carried out since November. It is quite open but the total numbers killed are not," a charity worker who gave her name only as Marie-Odile told Reuters.
"We are called out to scenes of executions and we talk with relatives of those killed," she said.
Officials confirmed the shoot-at-sight decree, but refused to go on the record. Instead they cited a public statement by President Idriss Deby whose office issued the order to paramilitary gendamrie commanders nationwide.
"N'Djamena is being held hostage by real organised gangs which, when they are apprehended by the law, are systematically freed again by the justice system. After they are freed they continue to give law enforcers problems," Deby told a news conference after meeting rights groups on November 23.
Insecurity is a major problem in Chad, which has been gripped by internal conflict or war with Libya for more than two decades until 1990.
"Crime is a huge problem. The whole place is run by the army and bandits and roads outside N'Djamena are subject to roadblocks by robbers," a Western resident said.
The vast but largely desert country also borders the volatile states of Sudan and Central African Republic, with whom it is seeking a common strategy against cross border banditry.
A transport worker at a dock on Lake Chad was among victims of the shoot-to-kill order listed by the human rights groups.
"A docker accused of breaking into an empty container was executed in the market. The shooting caused one pregnant woman at the scene to miscarry under emotional shock," the Chadian Human Rights League (LTDH) said in a December 26 report.
A Paris-based human rights group, in its account of the executions, said a pregnant woman suspected of stealing grain in a market was shot dead on the spot by gendarmes on November 16. A boy was put in a bag and shot dead on the banks of the Chari river in similar circumstances two days earlier.
Three suspected livestock thieves were shot in public on December 26, the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues told Paris daily Liberation.
A copy of the November 14 order to security forces seen by Reuters in N'Djamena read in part:
"We remind you once again that robbers must not be the object of normal procedures (of arrest). If one is caught in the act, you must immediately proceed with his physical elimination.
"Non-application of this order will result in very severe punishment including possible loss of rank and sacking from the force."
LTDH workers say two gendarmerie officers who leaked the order were taken into custody and had not been seen since. The two, named as Job Mbaibougue and Abel Djimong were arrested on November 23 and taken to Faya Largeau prison, they said.
Russia's aluminium industry has roared back to life with strong 1996 output figures and forecasts of small growth, but analysts say no new investments which could fundamentally reshape the sector are on the horizon.
"The situation for the Russian aluminium industry is quite stable and healthy," said a London-based spokesman for Trans-World Commodities, which controls major stakes in key Russian smelters.
The Kontsern Alyuminiy producers' group put 1996 Russian primary aluminium output at 2.87 million tonnes, up from earlier estimates of 2.79 million and above 1995's 2.67 million.
It said output in Russia, one of the world's top producers with 15 percent of global output, would rise 1.5-2.0 percent in 1997, but it had not yet compiled export data.
Russia's total primary aluminium capacity -- some still idle after a two-year global output-cutting deal expired in spring 1996 -- is about 3.20 million tonnes.
Russia is one of the least transparent of world producers and sensitive markets are keen to know of plans to increase or improve production.
"There was a generally-held view in early 1996 that output would fall back because of alumina shortages," said Nigel Kieser, mining analyst at Paribas Capital Markets in London.
But he said Western trading houses became more active in Russia last year to smoothe out raw materials supply problems and that the 1996 output figure was strong but not surprising.
While output may inch up this year, big infrastructural changes are not yet on the horizon -- in spite of the fact that smelters plan strategic alliances with each other and Western commodities houses are major shareholders in some plants.
"I don't see any serious investments in modernisation in Russiam aluminium in 1997," said a senior Alusuisse-Lonza Holding AG source, citing fears over shareholder rights that scare deep-pocketed investors.
Russian smelters spent 1996 complaining about rail tariff and production costs and can still only dream of the integration and long-term energy contracts that Western smelters have.
While these two items are still major factors dividing the Russian industry into the profitable Siberian smelters and loss-making plants in western Russia, other concerns will come to the fore in 1997.
"Companies are going to focus on the raw materials question a lot -- on how to get alumina," said the Alusuisse source.
Seventy percent of the region's alumina, the raw material used to make aluminium, is in former Soviet countries like Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Tajikistan, and the old planned-economy Soviet-era links that once guaranteed steady supplies have disintegrated.
Russia has only two functioning alumina plants which meet less than one third of demand, and smelters are hungrily eyeing Kazakhstan's Pavloday and Ukraine's Nikolayevsky alumina plants.
One metals source said smelters were so desperate for alumina that they were extracting it from the mineral nepheline, in a costly and obscure procedure used almost nowhere else in the world, instead of from the more traditional bauxite.
Scarce raw materials are the Achilles heel of Russia's big southern Siberian smelters, which account for about 90 percent of Russian primary aluminium output and are fuelled by vast amounts of electricity generated by Siberia's mighty rivers.
The Bratsk, Irkutsk, Sayansk and Krasnoyarsk smelters are at least 4,000 km (2,500 miles) from the nearest port-based export outlet and functioning alumina sources -- vast distances which carry expensive rail tariffs.
Russia's largest alumina plant, Achinsky, is in the region, but it is bankrupt and barely producing at any of its capacity of 400,000 tonnes a year.
China posted a trade surplus of $12.24 billion in 1996 on Friday, lower than recent official projections but an about-face from predictions early in the year of a trade deficit.
Exports were spurred by the government's faster payment of export tax rebates and an expansion of credit to exporters as well as by soaring trade by foreign-invested enterprises.
Exports for the year totalled $151.07 billion, up by 1.5 percent compared with 1995, the official Xinhua news agency quoted customs figures as showing.
Imports were $138.83 billion, climbing by 5.1 percent, the customs figures showed.
The customs figures did not specify trade in December alone, but the surplus for the whole year of $12.24 billion indicated that exports slid in the last month of the year to give an estimated deficit for that month of $1.74 billion.
The surplus for the year fell short of the State Statistical Bureau's provisional estimate last month of a $16 billion surplus. It was down from the $16.7 billion surplus in 1995.
Many economists had forecast China would post a trade deficit for 1996, or at best achieve balanced trade, after it registered a deficit of $1.15 billion in the first quarter of the year.
The slow pace of government payment of export tax rebates to exporters in the first half of 1996 coupled with the relative strength of the yuan currency had been expected to sharply cut exports.
Imports had been forecast to soar after Beijing slashed import tariffs on more than 4,000 items to an average 23 percent last April.
However, imports grew more slowly than expected due to the elimination of many tariff exemptions in imports of capital goods for foreign-funded firms.
A government move to revive trade by sharply accelerating payments of export tax rebates in the second half of the year along with a strong export performance by foreign-funded firms fuelled the surplus.
The trade volume of overseas-funded businesses increased by 25 percent in 1996, to $137.1 billion, the customs figures showed. They gave no breakdown for exports. Economists have said most export gains were made by foreign-invested companies while China's state-run firms showed disappointing export records.
Foreign trade of state-owned businesses fell by 11 percent, to total $145.2 billion, the latest figures showed.
Japan was China's largest trading partner last year, with total trade hitting $60.1 billion. China exported $30.9 billion of goods to Japan, up slightly from $29.2 billion in 1995.
Trade with the United States rose 4.9 percent to nearly $43 billion, customs said, but gave no details of the imbalance.
U.S. figures show a ballooning surplus in favour of China, and this has become a thorn in Beijing's ties with Washington. Beijing has said it has a trade deficit with the United States.
Trade with the European Union edged up 1.6 percent to $39.7 billion.
China imported 22.62 million tonnes of crude oil, a rise of 32 percent from 1995 and steel imports rose 14 percent to 15.99 million tonnes, the figures showed. ($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Cigarette companies, complaining of likely bad publicity, Friday dropped pre-trial opposition to punitive claims by the state of Florida in a multi-billion dollar anti-tobacco lawsuit.
Florida is seeking $1 billion or more from U.S. cigarette makers for actual costs incurred in its Medicaid healthcare programme for treating people afflicted with smoking-related ailments. Punitive damages, assuming a victory for the state, raise the potential losses to the industry substantially.
The state last month won the right to claim even further damages under Florida's anti-racketeering laws, a legal precedent in the spreading courtroom battle against tobacco companies. State lawyers have said the racketeering claims could cost cigarette makers tens of billions of dollars.
A lawyer for Philip Morris Cos Inc., one of the defending tobacco companies, said in a news release that ending pre-trial opposition had no legal effect and that the industry had never paid punitive damages in any lawsuit.
Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth hailed the action as victory and said the industry had made a major legal concession to delay harsh disclosures during a scheduled Jan. 24 hearing about industry marketing and medical research practices.
"I liken it to a criminal trial in which the defendant tries to suppress evidence that would prove him guilty," Butterworth said in an interview. "They want to delay. It's their best short-term ploy."
Butterworth said he was forbidden by court order from detailing the damaging information in 27,000 pages of documents to have been presented on Jan. 24 but said 90 percent of the material came from industry internal documents. Much of the material was gathered by other attorneys general, many of whom are cooperating in anti-tobacco lawsuits filed by 18 states.
"It's nearly all their documents, all about their marketing practices, their science ... and they are giving up everything to avoid publicity," Butterworth said.
Philip Morris lawyer Gregory Little said a key reason for the industry's decision was a worry that the state lawyers would present evidence against cigarette makers during the hearing open to journalists. Tobacco lawyers would be severly restricted in defending against the evidence during the hearing, he said.
"... The January 24 hearing -- which was already window dressed for media consumption with a 442-page brief and 12 boxes of documents -- would have done nothing other than provide a platform for the plaintiffs lawyers to once again trumpet their case ...," Little said.
He accused anti-tobacco lawyers in Florida of leaking documents to reporters and polluting the pool of unbiased potential jurors needed for a fair trial.
The judge in the Florida trial, which is scheduled to begin Aug. 4 in West Palm Beach, Florida, last fall threw out 15 of the state government's original 18 claims.
Defendants in the case, one of several such lawsuits brought by state governments scheduled to go to trial this year, include RJR Nabisco Holdings and the Brown &amp; Williamson unit of B.A.T Industries of Britain.
The industry may receive another legal blow if a reported campaign by Brooke Group, parent of cigarette maker Ligget Group Inc., to settle Medicaid claims in a deal that could involve the exchange of confidential documents.
Liggett was last year the first tobacco company to ever settle cigarette lawsuits in an accord with five states which had sued the industry to recoup health-care costs of smokers.
A computer scientist barred from exporting a floppy disk containing computer encryption programming asked a federal court Friday to strike down the export limits as a violation of his right to free speech.
Philip Karn challenged the rules after the State Department in 1994 denied his request to export the programming on disk but allowed him to export the identical material contained in a book.
U.S. law treats many kinds of encryption, computer coding and decoding programs, under the same category as munitions.  
The Clinton administration recently issued new rules relaxing the export limits, but most existing encryption programs remain classified as munitions and are subject to strict export limits.
The limits infringed on Karn's constitutional rights to free speech and due process, his attorney, Kenneth Bass, told a three judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia on Friday.
The First Amendment of the Constitution ought to apply equally to computer code written in a book or saved in text form on a floppy disk, Bass argued.  
"It just cannot be that the Constitution doesn't recognize progress," Bass said.
Karn did not attempt to export "object" computer code, a working program that could be run on a computer to encrypt and decrypt data. Karn's disk contained "source" code, or directions that could be used to write such software.
In another case, Federal district court Judge Marilyn Patel held last month that source code should be considered a protected form of speech. But the ruling, in the Northern District of California, is not binding on the D.C. Appeals court.
Eight of the top 10 publicly traded U.S. health maintenance organizations are expected to report lower or flat fourth-quarter profits as the industry shuts the books on a dismal year and moves warily into 1997.
Dissatisfied with narrow profit margins, Wall Street is turning cautious on many HMO stocks, although plenty of merger and acquisition action underlies the sector and is supporting the share prices of firms seen as targets.
"Consolidation will remain at a high level," said Salomon Brothers managed healthcare analyst Robert Hoehn.  
As HMOs report quarterly results over the next few weeks, two companies are expected to defy the earnings slump.
Booming Oxford Health Plans Inc has been a bright spot in the gloom all year and is forecast to post profits 70 percent higher than the year-ago level, analysts said.
PacifiCare Health Systems Inc is expected to show 10 to 13 percent earnings improvement, although its quarter will be complicated by a pending acquisition of FHP International Corp.
"It's sort of a throw-away quarter for" PacifiCare, said Volpe Welty analyst Ed Keaney.  
The problem that most HMOs were unable to solve throughout 1996 was a costly mismatch between medical cost inflation forecasts that fell short and an inability to push through compensatory premium increases. A margin squeeze resulted.
"This year there may be room for a little bit of (premium) expansion as the year unfolds, but not enough of an increase to make it possible for these companies to restore margins to previous levels," Keaney said.
Citing small premium rises so far in the January renewal period, Hoehn said: "Uncertainties regarding profitability will remain, albeit at a reduced level from 1996."  
U.S. FIRST CALL CONSENSUS QTRLY EARNINGS FORECASTS
Company				Qtr   EPS estimate   Yr-ago EPS
Foundation Health	 Q2	 $0.64	   $0.72
Humana		     Q4	 $0.21	   $0.30
Mid Atlantic Medical   Q4	($0.02)	  $0.33
Oxford Health			Q4	 $0.36	   $0.21
PacifiCare Health		  Q1	 $0.99	   $0.88
Physicians Health     Q4	($0.43)	  $0.42
Sierra Health	    Q4	 $0.59	   $0.59
United Healthcare	Q4	 $0.48	   $0.57
Healthsource		Q4	 $0.10	   $0.22
NOTE: Parentheses indicate loss.
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
Macromedia Inc. shares plunged to a two-year low Friday after the software company reported an unexpected third-quarter loss and said it could face weak sales for another quarter.
Some analysts said they also were concerned that Apple Computer Inc.'s declining sales could hurt Macromedia's revenue from sale of software for Macintosh computers in coming quarters.
Shares of the San Francisco graphics software vendor fell $4.19, or 31 percent, to $9.31 in Nasdaq trading -- the lowest price since December 1994.
Macromedia on Thursday reported a loss of $2.36 million, or 6 cents a share, for its fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with net income of $7.15 million, or 18 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago. Third-quarter revenue fell 9 percent to $28.1 million from $30.9 million.
Wall Street expected Macromedia to report net income of 14 cents a share, according to a recent survey of analysts by First Call.
Macromedia gets about half its revenue from Director, a computer programme that helps graphic artists make animated clips for video games and multimedia software.
Macromedia customers are putting off Director purchases until the company releases a new version in a couple of months, analysts said.
"We are left with the concern that there will be a dip in revenue" in the fourth quarter as well, said Kevane Wong, analyst at brokerage firm Jefferies &amp; Co. in San Francisco.
Macromedia also gets about 60 percent of its revenue from Macintosh software sales. A slow rollout of high-end Macintosh PCs in Europe led to slow European sales for Macromedia as well, said Ed Bierdeman, analyst at Dakin Securities.
"The Mac market is like a block of ice melting in the sun," leaving many Mac software vendors, including Macromedia, to suffer, Bierdeman said.
Macromedia likely will post a small loss in its fiscal fourth quarter, ending in March, Bierdeman said.
Several analysts also said they were concerned Macromedia might not be able to finish the new version of Director until spring, which would jeopordize earnings until the quarter ended in June.
Macromedia officials could not be reached for comment immediately.
Britain's largest mortgage lender, the Halifax Building Society, on Friday said its planned stock market flotation in June could be worth as much as 12 billion pounds ($20 billion).
Unveiling a price range and details of share allocations to the society's members, Halifax chief executive Mike Blackburn said it "will represent the largest single extension of private share ownership ever witnessed in the UK," said
The mutually-owned Halifax, with assets of over 100 billion pounds, said flotation adviser Deutsche Morgan Grenfell had estimated a share price of between 390 and 450 pence per share if the flotation had taken place on December 16, 1996.
This equals a market worth of between 10.4 and 12 billion pounds, and analysts expect the final outcome to be at the top end of this range given the recent positive performance of the most comparable stock in the market, former building society Abbey National Plc.
"The valuation of 12 billion (pounds) is right in line with our expectations," said Peter Toeman, banking analyst at ABN AMRO Hoare Govett.
Other analysts agreed and many expect the price on flotation day to be higher, saying that Friday's figures looked a little conservative.
The Halifax said each qualifying member will receive a basic allocation of 200 shares in a flotation of 2.675 billion shares.
The Halifax has 6.7 million investing members and two million borrowing members. Of these, there is an overlap 700,000 which means that the Society is sending out a total of around 8.0 million voting packs.
Investing members will also get a variable share allocation depending on how much money they had in their accounts on particular dates. This will range from 200 shares to a maximum of 1,181 for those with 50,000 pounds ($84,430) or more.
At its special general meeting on February 24, over 50 percent of the investing members must vote in favour of the proposal or it will fail. The society has started a huge advertising campaign to encourage members to vote.
The Halifax is expected to be in the top 20 companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE 100 index of blue-chip firms and is sure to threaten the Abbey's position as Britain's fifth largest publicly-quoted bank.
It said it sees room for huge expansion in the British insurance and long-term savings sectors.
"We'll focus on the UK personal financial services sector," Halifax spokesman Davis Gilchrist told Reuters Financial Television in an interview.
"That's a very wide area, both on the borrowing side and, increasingly, on the savings side -- traditional savings and long-term savings."
Asked whether the expansion would be by acquisition or through organic growth, Gilchrist ruled nothing out.
"That will give us a major programme of expansion in life assurance and general insurance as well," he said. "We'll look at the best (expansion) method. In some cases, organic growth from a solid base can be the best way."
The Halifax joins the Woolwich, Alliance &amp; Leicester and Northern Rock which are all coming to the market this year from the building societies sector in flotations worth an aggregate of around 18 billion pounds.
Economists have expressed concern that a large chunk of the proceeds will be spent as a windfall and could stoke up inflationary pressures in the British economy later this year.
The flotation price of the Halifax Building Society is expected to materialise at the high end of an estimate prepared by the Society's bankers last month, banking analysts said on Friday.
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, the Halifax's investment banking advisers, set a price range for the June float of between 390 and 450 pence which would produce a market capitalisation of between 10.4 billion and 12 billion stg.
"The valuation of 12 billion (stg) is right in line with our expectations," said Peter Toeman, banking analyst at ABN AMRO Hoare Govett.
Other analysts were in agreement but some expect the price on flotation day to be higher, saying that today's figures look a little conservative.
"Based on a 1997 earnings per share figure of 44 or 45 pence, a share price of around 475 pence or even 490 pence would seem to fit," said John Leonard, banking analyst at Salomon Brothers.
Analysts tend to use a comparison with Abbey National Plc to do their calculations.
Abbey is the only building society to have converted so far, it became a bank in 1989, and still makes 65 percent of its money from its core mortgage and deposit activity, according to Rob Thomas, building societies analyst at UBS.
The Halifax makes about 80 percent of its income from its core activities and looks set to expand vigorously into other areas like life and general insurance, long-term savings and funds management.
"There's a good possibility that the Halifax will be rated higher than the Abbey when it comes to the market but the other societies will probably be lower," Thomas said.
The Woolwich, Alliance &amp; Leicester and Northern Rock will join the Halifax in floating later this year.
Thomas added that the prospective flotation levels of the societies will fluctuate broadly in line with movements in the Abbey's share price between now and the summer.
"Using the Abbey as a pointer is fine because banking sector valuations are pretty close together at around 10 times earnings, except for Lloyds TSB," said David Poutney, analyst at Panmure Gordon. "But there's nothing clever or scientific about it."
Analysts agreed that one cloud on the horizon for potential shareholders may be the possibility of higher interest rates in Britain, especially after the general election which must be held by May 22.
Currently, sterling strength is seen by some economists as keeping a lid on inflationary pressures and consequently rates, but there is a feeling that rates will have to rise.
But analysts say a rise of 100 basis points or more would be needed to seriously dent the banking sector and damage the summer's flotations.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864
Britain's largest mortgage lender, the Halifax Building Society, said Friday its planned initial public offering in June could be worth as much as 12 billion pounds ($20 billion).
Unveiling a price range and details of share allocations to the society's members, Halifax Chief Executive Mike Blackburn said it "will represent the largest single extension of private share ownership ever witnessed in the UK."
The mutually-owned Halifax, with assets of over 100 billion pounds ($167.8 million), said flotation adviser Deutsche Morgan Grenfell had estimated a share price of between 390 and 450 pence ($6.54 to $7.55) per share if the IPO had taken place on Dec. 16.
This equals a market worth of between 10.4 billion ($17.5 billion) and 12 billion pounds ($20.1 billion), and analysts expect the final outcome to be at the top end of this range given the recent positive performance of the most comparable stock in the market, former mortgage banker Abbey National Plc.
"The valuation of 12 billion (pounds) is right in line with our expectations," said Peter Toeman, banking analyst at ABN AMRO Hoare Govett.
Other analysts agreed and many expect the price on flotation day to be higher, saying that Friday's figures looked a little conservative.
The Halifax said each qualifying member will receive a basic allocation of 200 shares in a flotation of 2.675 billion shares.
The Halifax has 6.7 million investing members and two million borrowing members. Of these, there is an overlap 700,000, which means that the Society is sending out a total of around 8.0 million voting packs.
Investing members will also get a variable share allocation depending on how much money they had in their accounts on particular dates. This will range from 200 shares to a maximum of 1,181 for those with 50,000 pounds ($84,430) or more.
At its special general meeting on Feb. 24, over 50 percent of the investing members must vote in favour of the proposal or it will fail. The society has started a huge advertising campaign to encourage members to vote.
The Halifax is expected to be in the top 20 companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE 100 index of blue-chip firms and is sure to threaten Abbey's position as Britain's fifth-largest publicly-owned bank.
It said it sees room for huge expansion in the British insurance and long-term savings sectors.
"We'll focus on the UK personal financial services sector," Halifax spokesman Davis Gilchrist said. "That's a very wide area, both on the borrowing side and, increasingly, on the savings side -- traditional savings and long-term savings."
Britain's largest mortgage lender, the mutually-owned Halifax Building Society, on Thursday (corrects from Wednesday) said its planned stock market flotation in June could value it at as much as 12 billion pounds ($20 billion).
"This will represent the largest single extension of private share ownership ever witnessed in the UK," said Halifax chief executive Mike Blackburn.
The Halifax, which has assets of over 100 billion pounds, said its investment bank adviser Deutsche Morgan Grenfell had estimated a market price of between 390 and 450 pence per share if the flotation had taken place on December 16, 1996.
This would have meant a company worth between 10.4 and 12 billion pounds and analysts expect the final outcome to be at the top end of this range, given the recent positive performance of the most comparable stock in the market -- former building society Abbey National Plc.
The Halifax said each qualifying member will receive a basic allocation of 200 shares in a flotation of 2.675 billion shares.
The Halifax has 6.7 million investing members and 2.0 million borrowing members. Of these, there is an overlap 700,000 which means that the Society is sending out a total of around 8.0 million voting packs.
Investing members will also get a variable share allocation depending on how much money they have in their accounts on particular dates, this will range from 200 shares to a maximum of 1,181 for those with 50,000 pounds ($84,430) or more.
At its special general meeting on February 24, over 50 percent of the investing members must vote in favour of the proposal or it will fail.
The Halifax is expected to be in the top 20 companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE 100 index of blue-chip firms and is sure to threaten the Abbey's position as Britain's fifth largest publicly quoted bank.
Due to its conversion route -- the Halifax is not setting up a seperate flotation vehicle -- the legal requirement is that over 50 percent of its investing members must vote in favour of the proposal at the special meeting.
"It is a big voting requirement," said Halifax assistant general manager Graham Johnston, "50 percent is a higher hurdle than others have faced...we're very confident we'll get it."
The society has started a huge advertising campaign to encourage members to vote.
The Halifax will also not face the problem of other converting societies in that it has waived the protection from takeover that others will enjoy.
It joins the Woolwich, Alliance &amp; Leicester ALL.CN and Northern Rock who are all coming to the market this year in flotations worth an aggregate of around 18 billion pounds.
Economists have expressed concern recently that a large chunk of the proceeds may be seen as a windfall by beneficiaries and will be spent. This could stoke up inflationary pressures in the British economy later this year. ($1=.5922 Pound)
Britain's chemical industry faces a period of steady growth in 1997, helped by improvements in European economic prospects and lower stock levels, the industry's trade body said.
In an interview with Reuters, Chemical Industries Association (CIA) director-general Elliot Finer said that after an erratic performance over the past 18 months, stock of chemicals "are fairly low...and as a result of that we see prospects for pretty steady growth over the next 12 months."
Speaking ahead of a two-day conference on the outlook for the industry next week, Finer said prospects in the rest of Europe, which takes more than a quarter of British output and half of all exports, "are better than one might have thought a few months ago."
Finer said he believed the disruption caused by German reunification was now easing, while problems linked to the struggle to meet Maastricht convergence criteria for a single currency was also nearing its climax.
"Those two large factors mean that there are some quite good times ahead," Finer said.
But he warned that concern about the recent sharp rise in the value of sterling was causing concern among chemical companies, describing the current level of around 2.67 Deutsche marks and $1.69 as "unpalatable."
"$1.50 was nice, $1.60 we could live with but $1.70 is too much," Finer said, but he added that sterling's strength should not undermine the "steady, warmish prospects for the coming year."
He said Britain's chemical industry, which is the third largest in Europe after Germany and France with annual sales of 40 billion stg, was in a strong position.
Access to North Sea oil feedstocks gives the UK an advantage in bulk chemicals, while British companies also produce a wide range of high-performance specialty chemicals in fast-growth areas like ink-jet colour printing.
But Finer said he was concerned about levels of research and development spending by parts of the industry. British chemical companies spend around three percent of turnover on R&amp;D compared with 21 percent for pharmaceuticals and an average of 5.3 percent in Europe's chemical business as a whole.
"I think there are some middle-ranking companies in the industry whose expenditure on R&amp;D is less than some...might consider sensible given the hotting up of international compeition," said Finer.
Finer said innovation would also be a key theme of next week's business outlook conference on January 15 and 16, and was vital if the industry was to meet the challenge of competition from southeast Asia, India and the United States.
"We are still a very inventive country," said Finer. "Despite all the moaning we are still pretty good at fundamental science, and in our industry we are pretty good at bridging the gap between fundamental science and products."
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
After several shaky starts, Britain's commercial property market looks set to build on some improvement during 1996, but property experts stress there will not be a return to the sort of boom seen during the 1980s.
"This is the "Real Thing'. That is the growing opinion among investors when they consider the recovery now underway in the UK real estate market," said David Hutchings of property consultants Healey &amp; Baker in his 1997 outlook.
Hutchings predicts real rental growth of three percent in 1997 and possible total returns of 15-17 percent for institutional quality portfolios. This should outstrip the return on gilts and may surpass equity returns too, he adds.
But uncertainty ahead of a general election, which must be held by the end of May, means a "gradual but sustained upturn" is more likely than a market boom, he said.
Improved signs of demand, particularly for office space in central London and retail developments, especially shopping centres, have raised expectations. "The feeling is generally that this year is going to be a good one," a senior property analyst at another leading firm of advisors told Reuters.
This view is supported by a recent survey by the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and property consultants Grimley which was also cautiously bullish. It found increased business confidence meant a third of British firms expect to raise property holdings over the next six months.
The six-monthly survey, which canvassed 645 private sector firms across the range of sectors and regions in Britain, found 32 percent of companies expect to increase property holdings, 26 percent see a reduction and 41 envisage no change.
NO DRAMATIC SURGE IN DEMAND
"We expect a steady improvement rather than a dramatic surge in property requirements. The net balance on this survey is plus six percent over the next six months," Stuart Morley, Grimley's head of research, said last week.
Sudhir Junankar of the CBI said firms expect a further pick-up in business, led by domestic demand. "With profitability set to grow faster over the next six months, the upturn in the commercial property market is becoming more firmly based."
The CBI/Grimley survey predicts such growth will be strongest in the northwest of England, followed by Northern Ireland, Greater London and Scotland.
Larger companies are expected to lead the charge with those involved in distribution, transport and communications citing expanding capacity as the main spur in giving the go-ahead to capital expenditure on property.
The survey found smaller firms, as well as those involved in metal manufacturing, chemical processing, finance and business services, said that increasing efficiency was the main factor influencing plans for investment in property.
INTERESTED INVESTORS
But companies seeking additional or new space are not the only ones likely to fuel demand for real estate during 1997. Hutchings said the recovery underway in the property market is supported by both occupational and investment demand, in contrast to a brief upsurge during 1993.
Property consultant Knight Frank predicts that prime investment yields will be little changed in December from their levels in December 1996.
It forecasts the yield on City of London offices will be unchanged at 5.5 percent, while yields on offices in the area around London's M25 motorway and provincial towns will rise from 6.25 percent to 6.5 percent and from 6.5 percent to 7.0 percent respectively. In addition to offices, investors and property companies are particularly keen on shopping centres. "The prospects for the retail sector are good," the second analyst said.
Hutchings also forsees higher rents during the year ahead, fuelled by a growing economy, a shortage of top quality supply and low interest rates. Although some occupiers will hang back until after the election, occupational demand means rents will rise "at least until new development comes forward".
Some development has already begun and Hutchings says there are now growing signs "that institutional funds will re-enter the speculative development market in 1997" although bank lending for such schemes remains tight.
This is not the case for other projects where bank loans are more readily available and competition to lend for quality developments has led to wafer-thin margins being charged by some banks, particularly German lenders.
LONDON LEADS THE WAY
While the number of cranes over the City of London -- London's traditional financial heartland -- has not mushroomed, development activity has begun to pick up and more can be expected over the next 12 months, market players said.
In London one very visible factor is the heated rivalry that has emerged between the City and Docklands, the former docks area to the east of the capital which is home to the Canary Wharf tower, London's tallest building.
Firms such as U.S. investment bank Merrill Lynch and Britain's Robert Fleming have still to decide on where to relocate, with others such as Close Brothers and Cazenove also rumoured to be in the hunt.
And in the retail sector, last year's sale of former fashion mecca Carnaby Street by Dutch property fund Wereldehave for 90 million pounds "is a testament to the strength of investors' faith in the London market", said Hutchings.
China defended on Saturday its decision to exercise its veto at the United Nations for the first time in nearly a quarter of a century, killing a U.N. plan to monitor disarmament and a ceasefire in Guatemala.
"We had no choice but to vote against the draft decision on peacekeeping," the Xinhua news agency quoted Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang as saying.
"Clearly, the government of Guatemala must be wholly responsible," he said and made clear that China had no objection to the dispatch of U.N. peacekeepers to oversee a peace that ended a brutal 36-year-old civil war.
Shen accused Guatemala of forcing China to exercise its veto because the Central American country had maintained ties with Taiwan, which Beijing regards as a renegade province not entitled to international diplomatic links.
At a late Friday night meeting, all Security Council members except China voted in favour of a resolution that would have sent 155 peacekeepers to Guatemala for three months under a U.N.-brokered peace accord signed on December 29 between the government and leftist rebels.
In Beijing, the Foreign Ministry spokesman said Guatemala was to blame not only for recognising Taiwan but for joining a number of other small countries since 1993 to sponsor a General Assembly resolution aimed at securing U.N. membership for the Asian economic powerhouse.
Shen also lashed out at Guatemala's decision to invite Taiwan Foreign Minister John Chang to last month's peace signing ceremony in Guatemala City.
China had offered solutions to the impasse but Guatemala had remained resolute, Shen charged.
"Guatemala cannot expect on the one hand to do something that harms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China while on the other hand requesting China to cooperate on peacekeeping," Shen said.
The negative vote on Friday by China, which along with the United States, Britain, France and Russia, has veto power in the 15-member council, meant that Council President Hisashi Owada of Japan had to announce that the resolution had failed.
It was China's first U.N. Security Council veto in nearly 24 years.
Taiwan has given generous economic aid to several small, impoverished states around the world in its bid to break out of a diplomatic isolation imposed by China. Taiwan was expelled from the U.N. in 1971 and replaced by Beijing as the rightful representative of China.
Under the peace accord, Guatemala's army would redeploy units to specified locations, after which troops from the rebel Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unit (URNG) would move to eight assembly points and disarm. The U.N. observers were to verify the process.
The drafters of the resolution -- the United States, Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, Spain and Norway --  decided to push ahead with the vote, despite China's threat of a veto, saying that further talks could not overcome the differences.
China had never spelled out publicly what Guatemala was expected to do. But diplomats said it sought a pledge to refrain from sponsoring further pro-Taiwan U.N. resolutions and to stop receiving high-ranking Taiwanese visitors.
Officials in a central Chinese region have issued an action plan to stamp out worship by the underground Catholic church loyal to Rome, a U.S.-based church group said on Saturday.
The Communist Party document issued by officials of Chongren county in central Jiangxi province warns against infiltration by overseas religious forces and threats to political stability, said the Cardinal Kung Foundation, which obtained a copy of the document.
The seven-point plan, titled Procedures to Legally Implement the Eradication of Illegal Activities of the Underground Catholic Church, spells out action to be taken from November 25, 1996 to March 31, 1997 to wipe out underground congregations.
Measures include laying good public relations, registering and setting up a file for each religious believer for local and transient Catholics, forcing each undergound Catholic to write a letter denying their faith and to join the official church.
The document blames the growing number of illegal religious believers on "the intensified infiltration of overseas religious enemy and opposition forces, and due to the influence of the illegal activities of the undergound religious force".
Underground believers "used religion to commit criminal activities, seriously disturbing the social order and affecting political stability", it said.
It urges local authorities to employ "resolute, decisive and organised" measures to stamp out the underground church.
A local official reached by telephone in Chongren county refused to comment, saying the issue could arouse widespread international controversy.
China allows Catholics to worship under the auspices of the officially sanctioned, state-sponsored Patriotic Association but forbids allegiance to Rome or the Pope and maintains no diplomatic relations with the Vatican.
Authorities view underground congregations as a threat to party rule.
Aims of what the document called its "glorious assignment" include to "destroy the organisation of the Catholic underground forces" and to "destroy the Church's illegal assembly place".
Teachers engaged in illegal religious studies will be sacked and students are forbidden to carry any religious items.
The document called specifically for large-scale assemblies on Christmas Day to be stopped and exits of villages to be blocked to ensure no one leaves on December 25, 1996.
The plan defined the struggle against underground Catholics as a long-term political goal beyond April 1, 1997.
The Cardinal Kung Foundation is a Roman Catholic group that monitors religious persecution in China and wants recognition of those faithful to Rome.
It listed a string of recent examples of persecution of underground Catholics in China, including the disappearance of Bishop Su Zhimin of Baoding in northern Hebei province, and the jailing of two other bishops.
Bishop Su vanished after some 5,000 troops sealed off the Hebei village of Donglu in May, destroyed a shrine to the Virgin Mary that had drawn tens of thousands of underground Catholics in 1995, and detained two bishops and several priests and lay people, the foundation said.
Bishop Zeng Jingmu, 75, was ordered in March, 1995 to serve three years of re-education through labour after celebrating an undergound mass and a third bishop was jailed after he refused a bribe to join the Patriotic Association, it said.
About 80 underground Catholics were arrested in Chongren county on November 20, it said but gave no more details.
China's Catholic and Protestant churches, both tightly controlled by the state, claim several million believers but many more are believed to worship at underground churches.
The world's gold producers will likely pay dearly for the steep fall in the bullion price and the deep uncertainty overhanging the gold market.
If the bullion price weakness continues or worsens, gold miners face lower profits, money-losing operations, closed mines, slashed exploration budgets and plunging share prices.
Analysts predict smaller companies will be increasingly vulnerable to takeovers as industry conditions get rougher.  
"Earnings are going to be terrible," said gold analyst Michael Fowler at Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion in Toronto. "There have already been some mines that have shut and there could be a few more. And consolidation is likely to continue."
Gold, which was fixed at $358.55 an ounce in London on Friday, has lost more than $13 since the start of the new year, and few analysts believe the decline is finished.
The low price has already taken its toll on Canadian gold stocks, knocking the Toronto Stock Exchange's heavily weighted gold index down more than nine percent since Dec. 30.  
At least two companies have announced shutdowns of marginal mines recently. Toronto-based TVX Gold Inc. said earlier this week it would close its Casa Berardi gold mine in Quebec. In December, Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc. said it would sell two small mines in Quebec and stop work at its high-cost Paymaster mine in Northern Ontario.
"That can certainly happen again," said Jim Taylor, mining analyst with Yorkton Securities in London. "The high-cost producers are certainly vulnerable."  
The effect will begin to show in fourth-quarter earnings, and earnings in the first quarter of 1997 will certainly reflect the low bullion price, according to analysts.
If Merrill Lynch's predictions of an average 1997 gold price of between $370 and $375 an ounce hold true, it could spell earnings trouble for many producers.
Merrill Lynch analyst David Christensen predicted that U.S. gold firm Homestake Mining Co.'s earnings for the year would drop to about 13 cents a share if gold averaged $370. Homestake would earn 22 cents a share at a gold price of $385.  
Companies that do not hedge their gold sales -- such as Homestake, Echo Bay Mines Ltd., Battle Mountain Gold Co. and Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd. -- were especially vulnerable, Christensen said. Other analysts mentioned Royal Oak Mines Inc. and Pegasus Gold Inc. as prime victims of a lower price.
"A surprisingly large number of these companies are marginal -- companies that you wouldn't traditionally think of being marginal producers," he said.  
Companies that rely on the spot price of gold "are fully exposed to a decline in the gold price," Christensen noted. "They're all either spot sellers or don't have significant forward selling. They'll all be negatively affected in terms of earnings and cash flow."
One exception was U.S.-based Newmont Mining Corp., which would likely see earnings rise in 1997 because of projects ready to start this year, he added. His projection did not take into account the potential acquisition of Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp..  
Even companies with solid hedging programs, such as Canada-based Barrick Gold Corp., will likely find their share prices hit along with the gold price.
"This is a sentiment swing," said gold analyst Manford Mallory with Research Capital in Toronto. Investors do not usually differentiate between hedgers and non-hedgers when the gold price starts to drop, he added.
Although some analysts believe a few more marginal projects could bite the dust if the gold price stays low, most say the production effects of lower gold prices will become apparent in decisions to delay development.  
"Most of these companies will continue to produce as long as they are cash flow positive as opposed to earnings positive," said Christensen.
But as earnings start to drop, one of the first casualties will likely be exploration budgets. While some 1997 exploration commitments have been made, high-cost companies could find themselves slashing any flexible plans in order to cut their losses.  
Exploration companies will become more vulnerable to takeover moves from larger companies with strong cash flow, analysts said. As the low price of gold discourages investors, junior companies will find it more difficult to raise money for exploration programs.
"The capital is drying up," said analyst Daniel McConvey of Lehman Brothers in New York.
The smaller companies may well see their share prices drop, making it cheaper for companies laden with cash to swallow them.  
Toronto-based Kinross Gold Corp. a mid-tier producer, said it plans to take advantage of the sector weakness to expand.
"I would classify us as a predator," Kinross spokesman Gord McReary said in an interview. "We think we're in a very privileged position. We're in the kind of strange situation where maybe some of the bad news for the sector can be good news for us," he said.  
Gold equities in Australia may also be knocked down by lower gold prices, said analyst Taylor. But since many Australian companies hedge their sales, earnings will not be hurt as much as among some companies in North America.
In South Africa, however, analysts expect first-quarter earnings to be trampled by low gold prices.
In Mexico, mining giants Industrias Penoles and Grupo Mexico will probably not alter their expansion plans for polymetallic mines with high gold contents but will see slightly differing bottom-line impacts.
Foreign Minister Saleh Kebzabo defended Chad's new policy of summarily executing alleged criminals, saying it was justified because the country's courts systematically freed wrongdoers.
Human rights groups say scores of Chadians have already been executed by security forces, including 11 people shot in public on New Year's eve.
"The policy has worked. We no longer see the levels of violence before it was introduced," Kebzabo told Reuters in an interview in the capital N'Djamena on Saturday.
His comments were the most senior official confirmation of a decree issued by President Idriss Deby. An order to police commands in the country to forget the courts when dealing with criminals caught in the act was leaked to reporters last week.
"It came to force around the beginning of November," Kebzabo said. "If you want to know how effective it has been, ask a white woman in the market. Before they couldn't even go there without being attacked for their jewellery."
Deby justified the policy, saying the courts were corrupt and systematically freed criminals.
Insecurity is a major problem in Chad, which was gripped by civil war or conflict with Libya for more than two decades until 1990. The vast but largely desert country also borders the volatile states of Sudan and Central African Republic, with whom it is seeking a common strategy against cross-border banditry.
Kebzabo, a former journalist and close political associate Deby, dismissed critics who say the shoot-at-sight policy is a gross human rights violation.
"While the situation continued there was no question of human rights for those attacked," said Kebzabo, who heads the National Union for Development and Renewal party.
He said there were no official figures for those executed so far, but he did not directly dispute the Chad Human Rights League's reports of scores killed.
"Some people, if they heard 10 people had been killed, they would say 100. There are no figures. But when the League makes a statement it is usually pretty true," said Kebzabo, himself a former activist who had brushes with authorities before joining the government.
In one crackdown, nine people accused of theft and banditry were executed at Fianga in the southwestern region of Mayo-Kebbi on Christmas Eve, campaign group Chad Non-Violence said in a report submitted to the Human Rights League on Friday.
"Nine people were arrested on December 22 and kept at the Fianga gendarmerie. On December 24 they were tied up and executed in a public market in the presence of administrative, political and military authorities," said the report signed by Chad Non-Violence president Lazare Serge Tikri.
"Also in Fianga, 11 others were arrested and received the same treatment on December 31," it added.
A League spokesman said it was not unusual for reports to reach N'Djamena two weeks late because of poor communications.
A December 26 League report listed some of the people killed since November, including a pregnant woman, streetchildren and suspected thieves.
"A docker accused of breaking into an empty container was executed in the market. The shooting caused one pregnant woman at the scene to miscarry under emotional shock," it said.
"It is quite open but the total numbers killed are not," an aid worker said. "We are called out to scenes of executions and we talk with relatives of those killed."
Many ordinary Chadians interviewed about the shoot-to-kill policy said they initially supported it because of rampant crime but that they now feared it could get out of hand.
A U.S. forensics team has arrived in China to recover the remains of crew members from a crashed World War Two bomber recently discovered in south-western China, U.S. officials said on Sunday.
The team from the U.S. Department of Defence would focus on recovering and identifying the remains of the doomed bomber's crew, a U.S. official told reporters at a briefing.
"Our purpose is to recover all human remains and make the fullest possible identification of the 10 crew members on that plane," said the official, who asked not to be identified.
Officials of south-western China's Guangxi region would hand over the remains of the 10 men, aged from 19 to 26, who died when the B-24 bomber slammed into a cliff near scenic Guilin on August 31, 1944 while returning from a bombing raid on Japanese ships around Taiwan, the official said.
Local villagers looking for wild mountain herbs had stumbled across the scattered remnants of the bomber in a remote ravine last October, he said.
U.S. officials first learned of the wreckage when Chinese President Jiang Zemin handed over a video and photographs of the crash site to U.S. President Bill Clinton when the two met in Manila last November at the summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Chinese Defence Minister Chi Haotian gave U.S. Secretary of Defence William Perry two dogtags recovered from the site during a meeting in Washington last month.
China's claim that the wreckage was found last October appeared to be true, the official said.
"There's no indication that it is anything other than what they said it was," the official said, adding that the Chinese government had given them full cooperation in arranging the repatriation of the remains.
Some analysts have said Beijing may have known of the wreck for some time but has made it public only at a time when it is eager to improve strained ties with Washington.
"The Chinese see this as a humanitarian issue," the official said.
U.S. forces lost contact with the bomber after it was forced to change course to Guilin because of a Japanese assault against its original base in Liuzhou, also in Guangxi region, he said.
The cause of the crash was still unknown and the forensic team would not seek to discover what brought the plane down on this trip, he said.
Video footage of the site seen by reporters showed five sets of dog tags, eight pistols, machineguns and other pieces of equipment recovered from the destroyed aircraft.
Chinese authorities had sealed off the crash site and the video and photographs suggested the wreckage had been untouched for more than 52 years, the official said.
"The recovery of small items, usually the first things to go, would indicate there has been no scavenging," he said.
The remains would be flown back to Hawaii next Friday for analysis and identification, he said, adding that it could take weeks to years to identify the remains.
U.S. officials had made contact with representatives of all 10 families including at least one son, he said.
A U.S. team trekked to a Himalayan site in remote Tibet in 1994 to recover remains from another U.S. aircraft that crashed in 1945, another U.S. official said.
From 500-1,000 U.S. airmen remained unaccounted for after disappearing during World War Two flights over China, where U.S. aviators for years supported attempts by the then Nationalist government to resist Japanese invaders.
Hong Kong's future leader Tung Chee-hwa is making plans to travel to major Western countries in a bid to raise the profile of the territory and clear the air over important issues related to its sovereignty transfer.
The roadshow, still in the works and its timing dependent on Tung's workload, could materialise before July 1, when the British colony of more than 150 years reverts to Chinese rule, his spokeswoman told Reuters on Sunday.
"Mr Tung's trip is to give a real picture of Hong Kong. He feels some countries do not really understand the real situation in Hong Kong," spokeswoman Elin Wong said by telephone.
"It would be this year. If it is possible, before (July 1) but it depends on his workload," Wong said, adding it would probably include the United States and some European countries.
The trip, which would be Tung's first outside China since being selected in December under close Beijing supervision as the territory's first post-handover chief, would focus on a wide range of issues related to Hong Kong's handover.
"He will not just talk on any particular issue, but a range, on all aspects that are important to Hong Kong," Wong said.
Tung, however, is expected to focus on what he has deemed to be misunderstandings in the West over an interim lawmaking chamber which China has vowed to install in place of Hong Kong's elected legislature upon the handover.
The 60-member provisional legislature was formed in December by a pro-China panel of 400, the same body which selected Tung as Hong Kong's first Chief Executive from July 1.
Hong Kong's British-run government has refused to cooperate with the body and the territory's pro-democracy camp, particularly the popular Democratic Party, also opposes it.
At a public function on Saturday, Tung said Western countries, particularly the U.S., has not properly understood the provisional legislature and other important issues related to Hong Kong's handover.
"Mr Tung said he would try his utmost to promote Hong Kong before July 1, and he hopes to clear all the misunderstandings now held by Western countries," the China-funded Wen Hui Pao newspaper reported on Sunday.
In his fiercest attack to date on critics of the provisional legislature, Tung told them last week to stop criticising the future lawmaking chamber when talking to Western leaders, adding their actions were a disservice to Hong Kong.
After a turbulent first year on the Internet, Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. will launch a revamped Web site on Monday with a new strategy more tightly focused on its well-known TV Guide.
The company's entertainment Web site will remain free on the Internet but will be renamed The TV Guide Entertainment Network with a new address (www.tvguide.com). The former name for the site was iGuide.
The new site will feature four areas including movies, music and sports in addition to television. Fox Sports and other Murdoch properties will also provide content, News Corp. said.
News Corp. expects money generated through advertising sales and eventual online transactions will allow it to turn a profit from the site in three to five years.
"Three to five years is the time frame," James Murdoch, Rupert Murdoch's youngest son who is vice president of music and new media at News Corp., said when asked about the goals for the site.
News Corp. is also embracing the WebTV Internet access device, which turns a standard television into an Internet access tool. Through an agreement with WebTV Networks Inc. in Palo Alto, Calif., it will develop customised TV-oriented content for WebTV.
Murdoch dismissed any suggestion that News Corp.'s foray on the Internet so far has been less than successful, even after the its partner MCI Communications Corp. pulled out of their joint online venture, the Internet directory service known as iGuide, last February.
"When something is at the very beginning in a new medium, it changes very quickly," Murdoch said. "Like everyone else in new media, we've been evolving. A year ago, we redirected it. It's been a well-kept secret on the Internet. Now it's a question of reaching users and telling them it's there."
Peter Krasilovksy, an analyst with Arlen Communications Inc in Bethesda, Md., said he believed "iGuide is one of the overlooked sites on the Web," adding, "it got lost in the corporate brouhaha between MCI and News Corp."
Murdoch pointed to data from market research firm PC Meter, which counts the current iGuide site, before the new format being announced this week, as number 96 out of 3,000 Web sites surveyed, up from about 500th or so a year ago.
News Corp. hopes to gain repeat visitors who will check the site for TV listings. It can then build up demographic profiles to enhance the site for advertisers, including ways to target local TV audiences.
A big Web "chat room" with celebrities, specialised bulletin boards, entertainment facts, trivia and games are a few of the features News Corp. hopes will draw Internet users to the site.
Microsoft Corp. faces increasingly stiff competition and some skeptical corporate customers as it launches the latest version of its hugely profitable Office suite of applications.
Company Chairman Bill Gates has predicted Office 97 will be the biggest upgrade ever in percentage terms for the market-dominating product, which has an installed base approaching 50 million users including component applications such as Word and Excel.
While early reviews of Office 97 have been positive, industry analysts said corporate users in particular will take a hard look before deciding whether the dozens of new features are worth an upgrade investment of $200 per seat or more.
"Corporations are realizing they don't need to upgrade their office suite environment nearly as often as Microsoft would like them to," said Michael Pinckney, research director for the Gartner Group.
By most estimates Microsoft dominates the market for desktop productivity suites, capturing more than 90 percent of revenues.
Office and its component applications have been a key driver for the company's earnings, contributing some $1.8 billion of Microsoft's $8.4 billion in sales for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 1996, estimated analyst Scott McAdams of Ragen MacKenzie.
He projected Office would account for nearly $3 billion of a total $10.2 billion in revenues this year.
"There's no question, it's enormous," he said.
In addition to its financial importance the new Office is filled with Internet hooks designed to drive broader acceptance of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser, "so it's an important product strategically," McAdams said.
But Microsoft, which will launch the product Thursday at a glitzy media event featuring Gates on the stage of New York's Alice Tully Hall, faces increasingly aggressive competition from Canada's Corel Corp. and International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus unit.
Corel, which uses WordPerfect word-processing software as the core of its suite, made a significant dent in Microsoft's retail market share in the second half of last year, according to PC Data.
"Corel has proven that if a competitor has the right offering at the right price point, even Microsoft is vulnerable -- at least temporarily," said Liz Buyer of T.Rowe Price in a newsletter.
And Corel has gotten a jump on the market by announcing a new version of its suite based on Java, the Internet-friendly programming language.
Analysts say the emergence of network computers and their "thin client" applications pose no immediate threat to Microsoft Office, which demands over 100 megabytes of hard disk space for a standard installation.
"Over time you will move toward a more Internet-intranet driven model, where the basic applications reside inside your Internet structure and you download it as you need it, but that's going to take a few years," said Tim Bajarain, president of Creative Strategies consulting.
In the near term, the biggest threat to Office 97 is intertia, analysts said.
Most Office users take advantage of only a small percentage of features as it is.
Analysts are divided on whether significant demand will be driven by Office 97 features including a built-in system to track appointments and phone numbers and animated assistants to guide users through tasks.
More importantly, many large enterprise users have not upgraded to the Windows 95 or Windows NT operating systems, which are required to use Office 97.
Britain's Ladbroke Group Plc Monday concluded a long-awaited global alliance with Hilton Hotels Corp., reuniting the Hilton brand worldwide for the first time in 32 years.
Despite the tie-up, which covers 400 hotels in 49 countries, the two companies denied there was a hidden agenda to progress toward a full merger of the two groups.
"We're taking a first step in bringing the hotels business much closer. We're putting the relationship back together and who knows what may come of it," said Ladbroke Chief Executive Peter George.
The companies said the deal covering sales and marketing, frequent customer programmes and development would fuel top-line growth and dispel the confusion that has surrounded the two groups in recent years.
Hilton has operated separately within and outside the U.S. market since 1964, when Hilton International was spun off from HHC.
"From our customers' point of view this will look as if it's one company for the first time in 32 years. For many years we've confused our guests ... They'll now no longer see a difference between a London Hilton and a Hilton in New York," said Stephen Bollenbach, chief executive of HHC.
"These two companies will have such a close alliance and so many points of contact with each other that I believe you will get all the benefits of one legal entity whether or not you become one legal entity."
The reunification would also help both groups capitalise on industry growth and make them more resilient in cyclical downturns, George said.
Announcing the signing of the agreements for the hotel deal, which was first unveiled last summmer, the companies also said a worldwide loyalty programme -- Hilton HHonors Worldwide -- would start Feb. 1.
That would be the single most important marketing link between the two, George said, adding that there was scope for further cooperation in other areas such as gaming.
"There is a gaming provision as well whereby we're looking at doing some gaming projects together," said George.
"It's not a deal that involves a great deal of cost savings but the primary benefit is the top line -- it'll be driving revenues. It can be valued in the tens of millions of dollars to each company."
As expected, the agreements provide for taking cross shareholdings of up to 20 percent. Hilton said it intended to acquire a 5 percent stake in Ladbroke in due course.
Mutual participation in future hotel development will focus primarily on management contracts and franchises, but the companies said it was no longer proposed that each make minority investments in the other's hotel real estate.
Even if British media and leisure group Pearson decides to sell its interest in merchant banking group Lazards, the bank would not be under immediate threat from larger rivals, banking sources said on Monday.
Marjorie Scardino's accession last week as Pearson chief executive has prompted widespread talk that Pearson would sell its 50 percent in Lazard Partners, which owns the three Lazard houses in London, Paris and New York.
But a pre-emption agreement in cross-shareholdings between Lazards and Pearson would ensure the partnership has first refusal on its own shares if Pearson decides to sell its stake, thus preventing the family-run merchant bank from falling into the hands of larger and expanding international rivals.
"This (speculation) is prompted by the fact that Pearson has a new chief executive who will obviously want to review things," one senior corporate financier told Reuters, adding that the pre-emption agreement meant Lazards "either stays with Pearson or comes within the Lazard empire fully".
Officials at both Pearson and Lazard Brothers in London declined to comment on talk of a possible sale.
Pearson has a 50 percent stake in London's Lazard Brothers and smaller nine percent stakes in Lazard Freres in Paris and New York. Its 50 percent stake in the umbrella group Lazard Partners was negotiated during the 1980s.
Analysts suggest Lazards does not fit into Pearson's main information, education and entertainment divisions and is therefore a target for being spun off. But banking sources point out that Lazards has been a profitable venture and not a drain.
"It (Lazards) has not required any capital or management time (from Pearson)," the senior financier added.
Pearson, in its 1995 annual report and accounts, points out that its "close ties to the three Lazard investment banking houses again proved their worth in 1995".
It highlighted attributable profits of 39.9 million pounds from the group for that year. If Pearson, described by Michel David-Weill -- senior partner of Lazard Freres in Paris -- as a "great partner" to Lazards since 1919, decides to sever its ties with the merchant bank, there could also be other complications.
The Lazard group, which has successfully specialised in corporate finance advisory work as well as asset mangagment and trading activities, holds 48 million Pearson shares.
The Financial Times at the weekend quoted David-Weill as saying Lazards might decide to sell this 360 million pound ($600 million) stake to finance a buy-back of Pearson's holding.
The newspaper said David-Weill had said the Lazards holding in Pearson was equivalent in value to Pearson's Lazard stake.
Although Lazards's stake has been seen as obstacle to a takeover attempt against Pearson, it might sell its shares on the market but in discussion with the group and "not to a party which could be hostile", David-Weill told the paper.
While Scardino's role at Pearson has been the subject of close scrutiny since her appointment, Lazards have also been in the news, with suggestions of a power-struggle over who will succeed 64-year-old David-Weill.
David-Weill said last week there was no succession crisis at the bank, adding he still had time. Under the bank's statutes, he can remain at the helm for another eight years. ($1=.5974 Pound)
Toronto's stock market extended Friday's rally and closed firmer on Monday, boosted by stronger oil and gold issues to end under its all-time high of 6018 points.
Canada's largest equity market closed barely above the watershed 6000 point mark, up 16.55 points at 6001.48. Turnover was brisk at 111.7 million shares worth C$1.58 billion ($1.17 billion).
ScotiaMcLeod's senior vice-president Fred Ketchen noted "the stock market didn't do too badly today."
Despite a rally in oils, Toronto could not breach its all-time high of 6018 points, set on November 28, 1996.
Oils were in focus after Canadian 88 Energy Corp. said it would launch a C$652 million ($476 million) takeover offer for much larger Morrison Petroleums Ltd.
"That added a little juice to the oils sector," Ketchen said.
On the broader market, only four of Toronto's 14 sub-indices lost ground: consumer products, conglomerates, pipelines and base metals. The gaining sectors were led by oils, golds, transports and industrial products.
Advancing stocks outnumbered decliners 544 to 435 and 294 traded flat.
Among active stocks, Morrison Petroleums topped Toronto's most actives, gaining C$1.45 to hit C$9.95 on more than 14.7 million shares. Canadian 88 Energy slipped C$0.30 to C$6.45 in light dealings.
Canada's largest department store retailer, Hudson's Bay Co., saw shares rise C$0.75 to reach C$24.10 in two large block trades.
As Chad's odyssey to oil production from 2001 enters financing and tender stages, senior officials are asking for guarantees that benefits will trickle down to the impoverished population.
"I am afraid about the oil because the experience of other African countries shows that it is always mismanaged," Chad's Foreign Minister Saleh Kebzabo told Reuters in an interview.
"It will change people's mentality for the worse. No preparations have yet been made at political and management levels and there has been no public debate," he said.
After decades of civil strife or conflict with neighbouring Libya, Chad held its first multiparty legislative elections on January 5, marking a symbolic transition to peace.
Other political party leaders, who like Kebzabo, contested the elections, voiced similar concerns.
"We must have laws to ensure all interests are served, with Chad at the centre," said Lol Mahamet Choua, who draws support near the smaller Sedigi oilfield on the shores of Lake Chad.
Exxon's unit Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc., a 40 percent-share consortium member with Shell's Chad unit (40 percent) and Elf (20 percent) in November sealed a deal with Chad on finance and legal terms for Chad's main field 350 miles (560 km) south of N'Djamena.
Doba, due on stream in 2001, is forecast to yield 900 million barrels, or 200,000-250,000 bpd over 15-20 years, at a cost of $3 billion, according to Exxon, Houston. Cheaper electricity is expected from power stations using Sedigi crude.
"There are some milestones needing to be resolved but something could happen next month," Exxon spokesman Ed Burwell told Reuters last week as Chad's finance minister left for discussions in Washington and officals held talks on a pipeline through Cameroon.
Chad's Gross National Product per capita income at $237 in 1995 is one of Africa's lowest. It is dependent on cotton, livestock and gum arabic revenue and badly needs foreign currency after 30 years of war since independence from France in 1960 and devaluation of the regional CFA franc in 1994.
Investors hope Moslem President Idriss Deby, once dubbed "Cowboy of the Sands" for lightning jeep-based warfare against Libya, can both welcome oilmen to his country -- twice the size of Texas -- and heal North-South, Moslem-Christian strife.
The consortium is nearing the end of exploration and engineering studies, despite logistics problems in the sprawling Sahel state with only 300 km (170 miles) of paved roads.
Doba's geological profile is such that horizontal flow and recovery of oil is small, meaning costly vertical well-drilling.
Most financial aspects of Doba remain unclear. "Chadians are told nothing at all about what is going on," Assistant Government Secretary Saleh Makki told Reuters. "Royalties are a closely guarded secret, but if there is no transparency people will find other ways to express themselves."
Production slipped back from 1998 to 2001, partly due to rebel activities in southern areas led by Moise Kette. The group wants an autonomous Chrisitan region in the south where Chad's cotton, and soon oil, wealth is concentrated.
Chad buys oil from southern neighbours Nigeria and Cameroon.
"Oil has not made people's lives much better in those countries, despite United Nations figures. Our oil money should not also disappear abroad," former National Assembly leader and ex-prime minister Jean Bawayou Alingue told Reuters.
Compared with Chad's per capita income of $237, that for oil-producer Cameroon is $813 and Gabon -- with Elf dominating offshore oil production -- $4,400. Chad has appealed for food aid for 1997.
"There will be enough money in government coffers for them to do some smart things," said Louis Adande, vice-president at the Abidjan unit of Citibank, reviewing finance options for the consortium. "But Chad is obviously still looking for stability and has an interest in promoting it."
A private Swiss firm, Cotecna, hired to manage Chad's treasury funds, recently ended a two-year contract. Opposition parties fear political use of future revenues.
The half-desert central African state of 6.5 million has held talks with the World Bank over partial funding of a 30-inch (76 cm), 650 kilometre (404 mile), pipeline with four pumping stations to take landlocked Chad's oil to French-built refineries, and marine terminals, at Kribi port in Cameroon.
An airport for supply planes is planned for Doba along with roads to N'Djamena and 300 long-term jobs are expected.
Ivory Coast and other African coffee nations will hold talks with Vietnam on Tuesday on robusta output ahead of an emergency meeting of coffee producers in Rio de Janeiro on January 23, InterAfrican Coffee Organisation (IACO) officials said on Monday.
"The Vietnam meeting is a seminar to convince Vietnamese at the highest level to join the ACPC," IACO Secretary General Aregu Worku told Reuters, referring to the Association of Coffee Producing Countries (ACPC).
"There will also be a fact-finding mission with tours to plantations to see developments in Vietnamese production and techniques," he said by telephone.
Ivorian Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauze, also IACO's chairman, has already left Abidjan for Vietnam where the Asia International Coffee Conference '97, organised by IBC Singapore, is being held in Ho Chi Minh City from January 14 to 18.
Gauze was accompanied by IACO's chief economist Donald Kaberuka, Worku said. Ivory Coast's new Caistab marketing board coffee department director Avi Adroh will also attend.
Gauze in November blamed non-ACPC member exporters, including Vietnam, for instability in the world robusta price. He called for an urgent ACPC review.
"The real talks will take place in Rio de Janeiro (at the January 23 meeting) when proposals made by the African group will be discussed," said Worku.
African producers would renew demands for an additional 2.5 million bags export quota cut for the first six months of 1997.
"That is the area we have been talking about," said Worku, adding that Ivory Coast had stuck to its ACPC quota while non-members had increased production.
"Indonesia has insisted on Vietnam joining and we will have to come up with something in Rio to be able to stick with our strategy after June," said Worku.
Gauze and Kaberuka were expected to arrive in Ho Chi Minh City on Monday night or Tuesday morning for the Vietnam talks, an IACO secretary said.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Hong Kong's top policeman said on Monday he was confident the territory's police could handle any disturbances after the July 1 handover to China without the help of China's People's Liberation Army.
Police Commissioner Eddie Hui, unveiling crime figures for 1996, told reporters that offences had fallen by 14 percent in the year, reaching a 15-year low and making Hong Kong one of the world's safest cities.
Hui was confident of tackling any crime problem, including mass disturbances, despite an exodus of senior officers, mainly expatriates, from the Royal Hong Kong Police Force.
China resumes sovereignty over Hong Kong on July 1 this year after a century and a half of British colonial rule. Many in Hong Kong have raised fears of a breakdown in law and order, including when the handover takes place at midnight on June 30.
Officers taking early retirement packages privately voice anxiety that Hong Kong's police will become tarnished by China-style corruption after the handover.
Pro-democracy politicians have warned that China could impose repressive laws and use its PLA garrison troops, whose colleagues crushed pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989, to keep order and put down protests.
Asked by Reuters if the police might call in the PLA to help deal with disturbances after the handover, Hui said: "I hope not. I can't foresee any situation which I cannot handle, which would require the assistance of the People's Liberation Army."
He said the exodus of officers from the service had not dented the force's ability to deal with mass disturbances in this freewheeling city of 6.3 million people.
"The senior officers who are leaving have little to do with crowd control," he said, adding that the force had sent many officers abroad for training in recent years and was prepared to deal with any outbreak of unrest.
"The overall manpower situation is very sound," he said.
Police Deputy Commissioner for Operations, Peter Wong, dismissed suggestions that the police were being pushed by China to get tough with political demonstrators, after a year of confrontations involving pro-democracy groups hostile to China.
"We're under no pressure from anybody in dealing with demonstrations," Wong said, adding that the Hong Kong police respected the population's right to demonstrate peacefully.
The enforcement of Hong Kong laws would remain solely the prerogative of the Hong Kong Police, he said.
Hui said 155 expatriates had asked to retire in the run-up to the handover, representing just five percent of the total of 3,000 senior officers on the force.
Asked to give reasons for the police's success in whittling down crime, Hui said he had sent more police out on the beat.
"We have moved a lot of our officers to the front line, to the streets, to make our presence more visible," he said.
He said Beijing's crackdown on crime last year had contributed to a more peaceful Hong Kong, where crime often has mainland links.
He said cooperation with Chinese police would be stepped up after the handover when Hong Kong's Interpol office, now a sub-group of Britain, would become a sub-group of China.
The force is to drop the word "royal" from its name and abandon the British insignia on July 1.
But it will continue to work in both English and Chinese and will retain exclusive responsibility to maintain law and order and police the Hong Kong side of the border with China, he said.
The four partners of the Airbus consortium Monday signed an agreement aimed at making the European planemaker a unified company better able to compete with U.S. rival Boeing Co.
Airbus Industrie said in a statement its four European partners had signed a memorandum of understanding to restructure Airbus into a limited liability company by 1999.
"The establishment of Airbus Industrie as a single corporate entity (SCE) is an important initial step in the consolidation of the aerospace industry within Europe," Airbus said.
Toulouse, France-based Airbus is currently a partnership between French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace (DASA) and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (Casa) of Spain.
The new Airbus will have a single management structure which would add engineering, testing, production, procurement and customer service to Airbus's current marketing, sales and product support activities, the statement said.
DASA Chairman Manfred Bischoff told reporters in Munich that differences remained among the partners in the consortium despite the signing of the deal on Monday.
He said there were still different views over the amount of productive assets that should be brought in to the limited liability company which is to replace the existing partnership.
An industry executive said what follows now would be "horse-trading" as the partners discuss what assets are deemed necessary now that the functions for the new Airbus have been decided. "Is this plant an essential part of the function of the future Airbus," will be the question to be asked, he said.
The Airbus statement said "Transfer of assets associated with these functions... will depend on how far the assets are essential for the described functions and their detailed valuation, to be completed by the end of 1997."
The British and Germans had argued for a high degree of integration in the new Airbus, while Aerospatiale wanted a more cautious approach, based on a largely static view of Airbus.
Airbus is mainly a sales and marketing organisation with the four partners making the planes. But the task of reorganizing Airbus took on an urgent note after Boeing and McDonnell Douglas said in December they would merge and form a civil and military giant with $50 billion in annual sales.
Airbus said the restructured company would help improvement in overall operational efficiency, the introduction of new international strategic partnerships and the longer term opportunity for "external participation" in Airbus.
Airbus spokesman Robert Alizart said that these options included a future stock market listing of Airbus.
In London, a British Aerospace spokesman said a share flotation for Airbus was a "long-term possibility."
Airbus said it was studying a launch of the A3XX, which would break the stranglehold on the lucrative high-capacity end of the market now held by Boeing's 747 jumbo jet.
Aerospatiale Chairman Yves Michot told journalists that he had met the chairman of U.S. giant Lockheed Martin, Norman Augustine, for cooperation talks and did not exclude a role in the A3XX project for the U.S. company.
"You cannot get enough of the right kind of partners in this sort of project..." Michot said, citing Lockheed Martin as a potential partner.
But Dasa's Bischoff told the Stern magazine that no decision was expected this year on the A3XX project as talks with airlines had shown detailed consultations were still needed, in view of the huge financial effort needed.
The goal of the new Airbus company must be to achieve a return on equity of at least 12 percent for its shareholders, Bischoff said. That meant that Aerospatiale must match cost cuts of 30 percent already made by DASA and BAe, he said.
Bischoff told reporters in Munich that Lockheed and Russian plane companies could become Airbus partners, as well as Saab of Sweden and Italy's Alenia.
Britain's Ladbroke Group Plc on Monday concluded a long-awaited global alliance with Hilton Hotels Corp (HHC) of the U.S., reuniting the Hilton brand worldwide for the first time in 32 years.
Despite the tie-up, which covers 400 hotels in 49 countries, the two companies denied there was a hidden agenda to progress to a full merger of the two groups.
"We're taking a first step in bringing the hotels business much closer. We're putting the relationship back together and who knows what may come of it," said Ladbroke chief executive Peter George.
Shares in Ladbroke initially firmed on the earlier-than-expected conclusion of the agreement, adding 2-1/2 pence to 236 pence in morning trading.
The companies said that the deal covering sales and marketing, loyalty programmes and development would fuel top-line growth and dispel the confusion that has surrounded the two groups in recent years.
Hilton has operated separately within and outside the U.S. since 1964 when Hilton International was spun off from HHC.
"From our customers' point of view this will look as if it's one company for the first time in 32 years. For many years we've confused our guests...They'll now no longer see a difference between a London Hilton and a Hilton in New York," said Stephen Bollenbach, chief executive of HHC.
"These two companies will have such a close alliance and so many points of contact with each other that I believe you will get all the benefits of one legal entity whether or not you become one legal entity."
The reunification would also help both groups capitalise on industry growth and make them more resilient in cyclical downturns, said George.
Announcing the signing of the agreements for the hotel deal, which was first unveiled last summmer, the companies also said a worldwide loyalty programme -- Hilton HHonors Worldwide -- would start on February 1.
That would be the single most important marketing link up between the two, George said, but there was scope for further cooperation in other areas such as gaming.
"There is a gaming provision as well whereby we're looking at doing some gaming projects together," said George.
"It's not a deal that involves a great deal of cost savings but the primary benefit is the top line -- it'll be driving revenues. It can be valued in the tens of millions of dollars to each company."
As expected the agreements provide for taking cross shareholdings of up to 20 percent. Hilton said it intended to acquire a five percent stake in Ladbroke in due course.
Mutual participation in future hotel development will focus primarily on management contracts and franchises, but the companies said it was no longer proposed that each make minority investments in the other's hotel real estate.
The deal is to be Ladbroke's number one priority in the near term but, said George, the company was still looking to develop the business by increasing the number of hotels around the world, and was always on the look out for additions to the existing business.
The four partners of the Airbus consortium on Monday signed an agreement aimed at making the European plane maker a unified company better able to compete with Boeing Co.
In a statement, Airbus Industrie said its four European partners had signed a memorandum of understanding to restructure Airbus into a limited liability company by 1999.
"The establishment of Airbus Industrie as a single corporate entity (SCE) is an important initial step in the consolidation of the aerospace industry within Europe," Airbus said.
Toulouse-based Airbus is currently a partnership between French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace(DASA), and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA(CASA) of Spain.
The French and Germans both have 37.9 percent, the British 20 percent and Spanish company 4.2 percent.
The new entity will have a single management structure which should add control of engineering, testing, production, procurement and customer service to Airbus's current responsibilities for marketing, sales and product support, it said in a statement.
"Transfer of assets associated with these functions... will depend on how far the assets are essential for the described functions and their detailed valuation, to be completed by the end of 1997," it said.
"The ultimate objective is the restructring of the entire European (aerospace) industry, of which Airbus in one element and not the integrating entity," Aerospatiale chairman Yves Michot told the Le Monde newspaper.
"Airbus will be made a single company before the end of 1999 with a shareholding strictly the same as now," he added
Currently Airbus is mainly a sales and marketing organisation with the four partners manufacturing the planes.
Airbus first announced a preliminary agreement in early January. The four partners decided last July to turn Airbus into a corporation to streamline decision-making and production.
These restructuring plans took on a more urgent tone after Boeing and McDonnell Douglas said in December they would merge and form a civil and military giant with nearly $50 billion in annual sales.
Airbus said in its statement that the restructured company would facilitate continuing improvement in overall operational efficiency, the introduction of new international strategic partnerships and the longer term opportunity for "external participation" in Airbus.
Airbus spokesman Robert Alizart said that these options included a future stock market listing of Airbus.
Airbus said that the restructured company "presented a great opportunity for business growth both for its existing shareholders and its future partners."
It said Airbus was studying expansion of its product range with an aircraft in the 100 seat category, with Alenia  ALEI.RO of Itlay in co-operartion with AVIC of China and Singapore Aerospace.
It is also mulling derivatives of the four-engined A340, the A340-500 with a range of 8,300 nautical miles and the A340-600 with seating capacity of close to 400 seats.
In the high-capacity long haul market it is planning to launch the A3XX, which would break the stranglehold on the lucrative top-end of the market now held by Boeing's 747 jumbo jet.
Airbus is also pondering work on the Future Large Aircraft (FLA), a military transport aircraft to match the future needs of Europe, next to its civil work.
British Aerospace said it expected its wing development and production operations, employing more than 4,000 people, to be transferred to Airbus.
European privatisations in 1997 could total a record $53 billion, with the telecommunications and utilities sectors expected to dominate activity, U.S. investment bank J.P. Morgan said in a report on Monday.
"Compared with last year, we expect a significantly higher number of IPOs (Initial Public Offerings)...Italy stands out as having the most ambitious (privatisation) programme, at close to $20 billion," said Caroline Meroz, one the survey's authors.
The report said in the run up to Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), European governments "may feel under increasing pressure to accelerate...privatisation programmes to place themselves on track to meet the Maastricht three percent deficit criterion".
Proceeds could be used to reduce government's financial debt, although they cannot be taken into account when calculating the deficit.
It said proceeds of European privatisations in 1996 totalled a record $43 billion, a 30 percent increase on the previous high in 1994, bringing the total value of the European privatisation programme so far to $230 billion.
And the total estimate for the proceeds of privatisations through to the end of the century could total $118 billion, according to the report, which was based on 53 enterprises which governments have confirmed they plan to privatise.
Meroz told Reuters that the utility sector had shown the greatest slippage on scheduled privatisations for 1996 with a completion rate of only 20 percent, but that otherwise it had been "a pretty good year".
This had been fuelled by strong European equity markets which, excluding Britain, rose by 26 percent over the year and also by "the variety of small innovative deals such as share buy-backs," Meroz said.
Such buy-backs could, Meroz said, be used by governments to dispose of residual holdings in companies during 1997.
The report said the energy sector accounted for a larger than expected portion of offerings while the privatisations of Deutsche Telekom and Italy's ENI "together accounted for 25 percent of 1996 proceeds".
Demand for future offerings should be well suppored by growing domestic interest and J.P. Morgan forecasts that foreign tranches will be closer to 40 percent than the 50 percent take-up by foreign investors expected in the past.
"The market has been able to absorb a lot of equities. We think the demand is there," Meroz said, adding there would be strong retail as well as institutional demand.
Some of the major privatisations planned for 1996 which failed to see the light of day were included in the report's 1997 estimates but the rest "may be cancelled (or possibly postponed to much later years) or may be carried out through alternative methods, such as private sales".
But a lack of mix of new ideas, both in terms of sectors and the countries the privatisations hail from, could have a dampening effect on the market in 1997, with privatised stocks seldom able to offer the upside of consumer recovery.
Australia's biggest gambler Kerry Packer, a patron of Las Vegas casinos, on Monday raised his stakes in the local burgeoning casino industry with the acquisition of management control at Sydney Harbour Casino.
Packer's media group Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd said it would spend A$340 million on a 10 percent stake in Sydney Harbour Casino Holdings Ltd (SHC) and 85 percent of the management contract of the casino from U.S. casino operator Showboat Inc.  
PBL's investment both in the management contract and the shares of SHC would show very attractive financial returns over time, PBL chairman Brian Powers said in a statement.
"This transaction represents a major move into the gaming industry for PBL and provides us with an ideal base from which to build a substantial business in this dynamic industry," Powers said.
"This advances our strategic goal of building a third core business alongside our television and publishing businesses," he said. PBL also has a option over part of Showboat's remaining 16.1 percent stake in SHC.  
Showboat president and chief executive officer Kell Houssels said in the statement the transaction provided an opportunity to realise a superior return on its investment, while maintaining a major ownership position in the Sydney casino.
Packer, Australia's richest man, has sought control of the Sydney casino for the past three years. In 1994 Packer led a consortium to bid for the 12-year Sydney casino licence, but lost out to the Showboat led consortium in December 1994.
Since losing the Sydney casino license bid, Packer interests have launched several legal actions against Showboat for the award of the licence by the New South Wales (NSW) government.  
Packer's punt on SHC shares have already made him a profit as shares in both the casino owner and PBL rose strongly after the deal was announced before Monday's sharemarket open.
In early afternoon trade, SHC shares were at a record high of A$2.27, a 34 cent or 17.61 percent rise in active trade, while PBL shares were 25 cents higher at A$6.35.
The deal was good for both companies as Packer's influence was likely to yield a tax-concession for the casino on the high-roller market, which is seen boosting cash flow for both the casino and PBL, Australian market analysts said.  
SHC owns the only legal casino in Sydney and has battled the New South Wales state government for the past 16 months to get a similar tax rate to other Australian casinos.
"I think Packer will probably get the tax-break from the government," one Sydney-based casino analyst said. "I expect there will be some tax-break announcement this month," he said.
The Sydney casino is seeking a 10 percent tax concession from the state government on big spending gamblers, mainly from Asia, compared with the present tax rate of 27 percent.  
PBL is also expected to end the disappointing run of operating results the casino has reported since it opened a temporary casino in September 1995. The casino is expected to open a A$1.0 billion permanment casino later this year.
Packer also has a 10 percent stake in Melbourne casino operator Crown Ltd and about 20 percent of Hudson Conway Ltd, which in turn owns 37 percent of Crown.
"Given the Packer-Hudson Conway type of relationship it looks like there is a bit more to come out of this one," said Richard Wolf, a casino analyst at Bell Securities.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin has put his personal stamp on the legacy of China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping with a television paean aimed at portraying him as the 92-year-old patriarch's rightful heir, analysts said.
The primetime television series was also carefully crafted to limit the role of those who might challenge Jiang's claim to the Deng mantle or who might disagree with his version of the patriarch's role, they said on Monday.
"This was building up Deng to build up Jiang," said a Western diplomat who has long experience with China.
That view was widely shared by China analysts.
"Jiang wants to use the Deng legacy to build up his own public image," said another diplomat.
China Central Television spent four years on the series that traced Deng's personal long march from his birthplace in southwestern Sichuan province to the pinnacle of power.
In a breathless tone, it heaped praise on the veteran leader for his pragmatic policies that made his countrymen both proud and prosperous.
State television estimated 224 million people -- 28 percent of the 800 million people who have access to television -- watched the programme broadcast over 12 successive evenings.
Jiang, who is officially referred to as the "core" of the third generation of China's leadership, introduced the series and entered the final judgment on Deng's contribution to building a modern Chinese state.
"He is a worthy outstanding Marxist and a stalwart communist," Jiang said of the man whose reforms turned a backward Stalinist state into an economic powerhouse.
Deng has not been seen in public in nearly three years and his last appearance showed him looking frail and faltering.
The final episode of the television series showed Deng announcing his retirement from his last official post in 1989 when he stepped down from the party's powerful central military commission.
Seen strolling with Jiang at his side, Deng called on the party to rally round his anointed successor.
Analysts said much of the drama from an otherwise predictable series stemmed from what was omitted.
The series made no mention of Deng's previous anointed successor Zhao Ziyang, the man most closely linked with guiding China's reforms until he was dismissed in the power struggle that accompanied the crackdown on the pro-democracy movement in Beijing in 1989.
Viewers received only a brief glimpse of Zhao, who has been under house arrest since 1989, as he was shown signing the historic Sino-British accord of 1984 that returns Hong Kong to China this year.
The late Hu Yaobang, Deng's other heir apparent who fell from grace, was given a perfunctory mention while former President Yang Shangkun, who was dropped in 1993 amid fears he was building up his own faction to mount a leadership challenge, made only a brief appearance.
Deng's children were shown alongside the elderly leader, holding him steady as he walked on uncertain feet, speaking into his one good ear or buttoning his tunic. They had no opportunity to give their own assessment of the man who is patriarch of their family as well as the Communist Party.
While the series paid homage to Deng's 1992 tour of southern China's special economic zones, which he used to kick-start stalled reforms, viewers saw a sanitised version.
"A key part of the southern tour was Deng's anti-leftist theme," said a Chinese academic. "This made no mention of that."
Analysts said Jiang was placating the Communist Party's left wing as he prepares for the party congress scheduled for later this year, a pivotal meeting that will set the nation's political and economic course for the next five years.
"By holding tightly to the Deng legacy he is trying to demonstrate that he is the one to interpret Deng," said a China analyst. "And he is the one who will set the tone for the congress."
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index rallied to close at a new all-time high of 6055 points on Tuesday, posting its first such record in 1997.
The influential index jumped 53.38 points to end at 6054.86 in brisk turnover of 129.3 million shares worth C$2.1 billion ($1.55 billion).
It busted through a previous record of 6018.65 points set on November 28, 1996, partly powered by a Wall Street rally.
Wall Street rose 53.11 points to close at 6762.29 on stronger-than-expected fourth quarter earnings from computer chip maker Intel Corp. Earnings per share jumped to $2.13 from a year-earlier $0.98.
Today's rally in Toronto was also aided by the start of the 1996 pension season, when Canadians rush into last-minute investing in tax sheltered funds before the traditional end-February deadline.
"The RRSP (Registered Retirement Savings Plan) season is beginning," said Midland Walwyn's director of private client investing Dunnery Best.
Fund manager Josef Schachter of Schachter Asset Management said that managers have been cautiously eyeing the market and waiting on the sidelines but have been forced to invest since more fund money will soon arrive. "They're sitting on too much cash," Schachter said.
All of Toronto's 14 sub-indices spiralled upward, except for golds which tumbled on lower bullion prices.
The consumer products sector soared 3.0 percent, followed by conglomerates, transports and base metals.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 514 to 443 and another 299 traded flat.
Takeover targets hogged the spotlight. Gold prospector Bre-X Minerals Ltd. soared 1.90 to $23.35 on today's news that Placer Dome Inc. proposed a rival merger bid to Barrick Gold Corp.'s joint-venture offer. Placer shares slipped 0.90 to $28.10 while Barrick fell 0.95 to 35.45.
The Indonesian government originally suggested Barrick and Bre-X team up to develop the deposit but Placer was encouraged to bid for Bre-X by some Indonesian sources.
Morrison Petroleums Ltd. rose 0.20 to 10.15 and was Toronto's most active stock. It is expected to fight a hostile bid from smaller oil firm Canadian 88 Energy Corp., announced on Monday.
Ivorian 1996/97 cocoa arrivals picked up in early January, pushing the total to 640,000-650,000 tonnes by January 13, analysts and exporters said.
This was still down on the 730,000 tonnes recorded by January 13 last year.
The 1996/97 figure includes 50,000 tonnes of arrivals in the first three weeks in October as the season opened three weeks late.
"The problem now is that there is too much cocoa in the port," said one exporter with offices in Abidjan and San Pedro.
"Some exporters in San Pedro are slowing down (buying) because there is no storage space left."
Sources close to the Caisse de Stabilisation marketing board gave an even higher arrivals total -- 707,000 tonnes by December 27, excluding the pre-season 50,000 tonnes. Exporters said the estimate was too high.
One exporter put arrivals lower, with 185,000 tonnes at San Pedro and 450,000 taken to Abidjan.
Other exporters put total arrivals at 555,000 tonnes by the end of December after 450,000 for mid-December.
"Cocoa is coming in at about 60,000 tonnes (a week) so there's a lot of cocoa about," said another exporter. "Quality is still quite good with bean sizes averaging 95-97 (beans per 100 grams)," he added.
Humidity levels were around 9-10 percent due to a lack of harmattan drying winds usually seen at this time of year, he said. Exportable quality is 7-8 percent.
Up country buyers noted, however, that humidity levels had already fallen from 11 percent noted in December.
"Bean sizes are around 95-97 per 100 grams but humidity is already down to 9-10 percent because of the sun," said one Gagnoa buyer, adding that the harmattan had arrived there.
National weather data showed no rains at eight out of 10 monitoring stations in the first 10 days of January. Rain at the other two was negligible.
Up-country buyers said bush tracks had now dried out after late-December problems and collection rates were normal.
"There is still a bit of cocoa out there and we expect February will be a bit better than usual," said Husseini Khaled, a buyer working around Gagnoa. "As for the mid-crop question, we don't know yet," he added.
Buyers said they were paying at least the minimum recommended farmgate price of 315 CFA a kilo despite poor world prices and initially poor exporter offtake.
Exporters had originally said they would begin marketing a large coffee crop earlier then usual. "Some people turned attention back to cocoa as coffee quality turned out to be terrible," said one exporter.
San Pedro exporters said they expected strong arrivals to continue at least into early February. Other exporters said they expected a late-January tail-off.
Shipping forwarders said warehouses were filling up but did not give precise warehouse figures. One source said at least 350,000 tonnes of cocoa had been exported since October 1.
"People talk of between 100,000 and 300,000 sitting as stock," said the port source. "A middle figure would be a good working assumption," he added.
The industry's focus is now turning to final estimates for the mid-crop, which so far has been put at anything between 70,000 and 200,000 tonnes.
Pod counters were expected to complete up-country tours in January before firming up estimates.
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's Norilsk Nickel metals group, a key supplier to world markets, said on Tuesday it was struggling with a shaky financial future despite keeping output steady at its top plant.
"We are undoubtedly in a state of financial crisis," said Viktor Feldman, deputy economics director at the Norilsk group.
Feldman singled out the high cost of maintaining social services in the inhospitable Far North of Russia where many of its leading plants are based. "Our biggest woe is supporting the social sphere, a sphere which, I might add, the government should be supporting," he said.
A senior official at the Norilsk combine, the flagship plant of the RAO Norilsk Nickel group, said the facility's output had gone according to plan, with 1996 nickel production at 100,000 tonnes and forecast flat in 1997.
Norilsk is the world's second largest producer of refined nickel, a principal component in stainless steel, and also accounts for about 45 percent of world platinum and palladium production, according to metals analysts.
But First Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Potanin was quoted by Interfax news agency on Tuesday as saying the plant might have to issue stock to pay off what the agency said was its 1.7 trillion rouble ($300 million) in debts or face bankruptcy.
Potanin is the former head of Uneximbank, the big Russian commercial bank that controls a 38 percent state-owned stake in Norilsk from a 1995 government shares-for-loans auction.
"We are constantly improving Norilsk's financial situation," said Alexei Parshikov, director of Interrosimpex, the powerful Russian group that now handles nearly all of Norilsk's exports and is trying to streamline trading operations to boost profits.
"I wouldn't use the word crisis to describe us, because crisis is when production stops, and that is not happening. We are producing according to plan."
Norilsk officials have for the first time in years declined to provide immediate total group production results for 1996 and 1997 forecasts.
Uneximbank press relations director Yuri Oleinikov said the group had slightly overfulfilled its plan to boost nickel output by three percent and copper output by six percent in 1996, but gave no absolute figures.
The group's 1995 nickel output was 180,100 tonnes, while its refined copper output was 338,700 tonnes.
About one third of Norilsk's profits go to supporting social services in the expensive and vastly remote Far North, where four of the group's six key enterprises, including the flagship combine, are based.
"We want 1997 to be the year we stabilise, and we are doing a lot to make sure that this happens," Feldman said. "But my position does not permit me to say this actually will happen."
Potanin said Norilsk, if it did not agree to a share issue to raise capital, would be put in the hands of a special tax commission which could institute liquidation proceedings.
Oleinikov said he did not think a share issue would solve Norilsk's cash problems and called on the government to understand the logistics of producing metal in a frozen, inhospitable section of the globe.
"Our sector should have a strong state role because it is a core industry -- it supports people and, through its exports, the federal budget," Feldman said. "Production will undoubtedly continue normally -- we take a lot of measures to ensure that.
Norilsk ordinary shares had fallen 8.95 percent to $6.00 at 4.26 p.m.(1226 GMT) on the Russian Trading System.
"The state should understand that to demand too much is to cut into production," Oleinikov said. "They will not want to kill the goose that lays the golden egg."
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520 ($1 = 5,597 roubles)
Colombia's President Ernesto Samper announced Tuesday plans to boost revenues by broadening the tax base, and said the 1997 budget would be cut by over a trillion pesos -- a figure higher than the 900 billion pesos previously approved by Congress.
The measures are part of an emergency plan to rein in the yawning fiscal deficit.
Samper said the overall rates of income tax and the 14 percent value added tax would not be raised, but he pledged to expand the tax base and combat tax evasion.  
Below-inflation wage rises for public sector workers, announced last week as part of a separate austerity law, and the merger or closure of inefficient government offices will help stem public spending, Samper said.
Earlier in the day, Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo said, "Everybody would be affected by draconian measures," but so far many of the proposals put forward have not yet been fleshed out.
The economic emergency has been decreed for an initial period of 20 days and allows the president to rule by decree without consulting Congress.  
"If we go on increasing the levels of public debt, we will be creating elements of instability in our fiscal system. We will be laying landmines in the path of the state's finances," Samper said in a speech at the presidential palace.
The fiscal deficit rose to 4 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1996 from 0.2 percent in 1995. Ocampo said Monday that the effects of the emergency measures, coupled with income from a recent spate of power plant privatizations, could cut that shortfall to 2.5 percent of GDP this year, compared to the 3.4 percent originally forecast.  
Samper said that the Expenditure Rationalization Law, which was approved at the end of last year and which included provision for a weighted 13.5 percent pay rise for public sector workers, would mean budget savings of 900 billion pesos.
He added that under the terms of the economic emergency decree, public officials had been ordered to look for ways to cut an additional 300 billion pesos from the overall national budget. This he said would lead to total savings of about 1.2 trillion pesos on a budget originally set last year at 30.3 trillion pesos.  
Although Samper gave a broad outline of the crisis measures, his speech was short on specifics.
Wilson Borja, head of the main public sector union FENALTRASE, said he feared as many as 19,000 state jobs could be slashed in the cost-cutting drive.
Although Samper talked of closing government departments, he failed to spell out the impact this could have on jobs.
The president spoke of the drain imposed on central government coffers by provincial authorities, raising the specter of funding cuts to the regions, already suffering from chronic lack of resources and social injustice.
He also said he would cut the government's external consultancy services by 50 percent and reduce official trips abroad. He did not, however, give an estimate of what saving that represented.
((-- Bogota newsroom, 571 610 7944))
Colombian President Ernesto Samper decreed an economic emergency on Monday, warning that the "economic and social stability of the country" was under threat.
In a televised speech to the nation, Samper called for urgent belt-tightening measures to cut the central government's yawning fiscal deficit.
The economic emergency, the first in five years, has been decreed for 20 days but could be extended for a maximum of 90 days, presidential sources said. All measures in that period can be introduced without the approval of Congress.
Further austerity measures are scheduled to be announced on Tuesday, government sources said.
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo later announced the first series of concrete measures aimed at slashing Colombia's foreign debt by more than $800 million this year.
Wilson Borja, head of the 800,000-strong FENALTRASE public sector union, said he feared the government could use crisis powers to cut as many as 19,000 state jobs in the coming days. The union was protesting against a 13.5 percent weighted pay increase, well below annual inflation, announced last week.
"We had initially been planning to launch a stoppage around mid-February but this decree could force us to bring those plans radically forward. We could start a strike as early as next week," Borja said.
Anticipating the unions' reaction, Samper said in his televised speech: "I want to warn you once and for all. Protests and strikes will lead nowhere -- quite simply because although the government has all the goodwill in the world, it is short of money."
"If the fiscal, exchange rate and unemployment situation continue to deteriorate, the social and economic order will seriously and ostensibly worsen... The economic stability of the country will be severely affected," the decree signed by Samper and his cabinet said.
The crisis measure comes against the backdrop of a sharp economic slowdown in 1996, coupled with a steady strengthening of the country's peso currency, which has undermined export activities. The government fiscal deficit has burgeoned and hit 4.0 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1996 up from 0.2 percent in 1995.
In the first of the specific emergency measures, finance chief Ocampo said the planned issuance of $1.8 billion in foreign debt bonds would be reduced by about $800 million.
He announced an overall cut in the national debt programme and unveiled a new tax on private and public companies which looked abroad for fresh loans.
Ocampo said the emergency measures, coupled with income from a recent wave of power plant privatisations, would help to cut the government deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 1997, compared to an initial forecast of 3.4 percent.
A U.S. defence team found human remains and parts of an American bomber on Tuesday after making its way up a steep mountain slope in southwestern China to inspect a recently found World War Two crash site.
The officials clawed their way up the slippery, granite face of Maoer mountain in Guangxi province and pronounced the mission a success despite the injury in a fall of a U.S. reporter accompanying them.
"We consider this a very successful mission," said Alan Liotta, deputy director of the MIA/POW (Missing in Action/Prisoner of War) office under the Department of Defence.
Speaking to reporters in the town of Xingan after returning from the site late on Tuesday, he said findings confirmed information about the fatal crash that occurred on August 31, 1944.
The B-24 bomber with its 10-man crew never returned from a raid on Japanese ships around Taiwan.
"Any step that we can take to bring a case closer to resolution and to provide a family some answers ...indeed gives us some satisfaction," Liotta told reporters.
The six-man forensic team from the Department of Defence flew into the Guangxi region on Monday to try to recover remains and learn more about the crash.
Local residents, searching for wild herbs in the region's thick forest, discovered the crash site last October.
U.S. officials first learned of the find when Chinese President Jiang Zemin handed over a video and photographs of the crash site to President Bill Clinton when the two met in Manila last November at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Chinese Defence Minister Chi Haotian gave U.S. Secretary of Defence William Perry two dogtags recovered from the site during a meeting in Washington last month.
Chinese authorities will turn over some of the remains later on Wednesday and a formal ceremony is to be held in Beijing on Friday.
The human remains would be taken back to the United States for identification, Liotta said.
The U.S. team's elation at reaching what was left of the bomber was dulled by an injury to Voice of America journalist Stephanie Ho who was knocked unconscious briefly after she slipped 75 metres (yards) down a slope returning from the site.
Ho lost her footing as she made her way across the moss-covered face of the mountain. A doctor at the scene said her injury was not serious but she was taken by ambulance to a hospital in the city of Guilin.
"This was extremely treacherous terrain and a very difficult climb," said Liotta.
Journalists who made the trek to the site saw a pile of charred and twisted metal wedged into a narrow crevass on the mountain side. Higher up the slope was a chunk of the plane's fuselage along with part of an engine, also wedged into rock.
"We had a total destruction of the aircraft," Liotta said.
Two farmers hunting for wild herbs found the crash site and alerted officials. They will receive 50,000 yuan ($6,000) each as a reward from the state, local authorities said.
U.S. officials said they had made contact with all 10 families of the crewmen aboard the plane.
They also said the site appeared to have been untouched for more than half a century.
"It's no wonder it took 50 years to discover the site," said David Rankin, a forensic anthropologist with the Defence Department's Central Identification Laboratory in Hawaii.
"We are truly talking about an extremely remote, isolated area."
The government's largest wireless phone auction ended Tuesday, with prices taking a U-turn back toward earth after 125 companies bid a total of $2.5 billion to offer a new generation of cellular service.
The total was down 75 percent from a similar Federal Communications Commission auction that raised $10.2 billion last May. The average price for a license to provide "personal communications services," or PCS, tumbled more than 90 percent.
PCS technology is expected to turn the wireless phone into a mass-market product, allowing consumers to use different communications services -- such as phone, paging, fax and Internet access -- through a single handheld device.
The drop reflected the flood of new entrants into the wireless phone market, a dearth of new money after the sky-high prices paid at last year's PCS sale, and the smaller slice of airwaves covered by the new licenses, analysts said.
The top bidder this time around was a unit of No. 3 long-distance carrier Sprint Corp. It bid $544 million for 160 licenses in Chicago, Houston, and Atlanta, among other cities. The permits cover a total population of 70 million nationwide.
Next was a unit of long-distance giant AT&amp;T Corp., which bid $407 million for 222 licenses in New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere. The licenses cover 139 million people. AT&amp;T was followed by a unit of BellSouth Corp., which bid $205 million for 39 licenses reaching nearly 12 million people in the Southeast.
The No. 4 bidder was OPCSE-Galloway Consortium, a consortium made up of Omnipoint Corp. of Arlinton, Va., and Galloway Entrepreneurs of Charlottesville, Va. It bid $181 million for 109 licenses.
The licenses will allow the companies to expand their wireless networks.
The FCC sold 1,479 PCS licenses nationwide in three different blocks, making this the most licenses sold at once. A third were reserved for small companies. Markets that generated the highest bidding were New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
Based on the population sizes covered by the licenses, the average bid at the auction was just $3.32 a person.
That was down from the average bid of $39.88 at last May's "C-Block" sale, which was reserved for small companies. Analysts called those prices too high for companies to make much money.
The FCC's first PCS auction, which raised $7.7 billion and ended in March 1995, had an average bid of $15.54.
"It's phenomenally cheaper," said Jonathan Foxman, vice president of Americall International, a Phoenix-based PCS firm that bid at the auction.
Mark Lowenstein, a vice president with Boston consulting firm Yankee Group Inc., called the latest prices "more reflective of the current market reality."
Analysts listed several factors behind the lower prices.
The airwave parcels sold, at 10 megahertz (MHz) each, were a third the size of the 30 MHz parcels sold at the two prior auctions and thus less attractive. The permits cover less geographic area.
Analysts also said the wireless market was getting crowded with companies holding PCS and traditional cellular licenses -- meaning less profits.
"The market is going to be too crowded," predicted P. William Bane, a director at Mercer Management Consulting.
The steep prices at last year's PCS auction meant less money available this time around. "The latest prices are an indication that people have run out of money," said Bane.
In addition, analysts said, Wall Street has not rushed to extend financing to PCS providers.
Billionaire Wayne Huizenga's Republic Industries Inc. added another sales outlet to its mushrooming auto-retailing business with the $200 million acquisition Tuesday of a leading Florida car dealer.
Republic said in a news release it was issuing stock to acquire Maroone Automotive Group, the owner and operator of seven new and used car dealerships, six in southern Florida. It also operates a showroom in Buffalo, N.Y.
Republic just last week agreed to pay $600 million for the National Car Rental Agency, the fourth largest rental car group in the United States, and this week is scheduled to complete acquisition of AutoNation USA.
AutoNation is a private company owned by Huizenga and is pioneering, with other competitors, the consolidation of the highly fragmented second-hand car business in the United States. AutoNation is building sprawling superstores of lightly used cars with set prices and warranties.
Both the acquisition of National and the takeover last November of Alamo Rent-A-Car, the fifth largest car-rental company, are meant to feed AutoNation. Republic has said it wants to open between 80 and 100 AutoNation stores by 2000.
"We plan to have new vehicle stores in markets where we are developing AutoNation USA. Maroone Automotive will enable us to add more major automotive brands as a complement to our used car megastores in south Florida," Huizenga said.
Maroone, now run by the son of the founder, owns the fourth largest Chevrolet store, third largest Dodge location and largest Isuzu franchise in the United States. The group also owns Ford and Oldsmobile franchises.
Michael Maroone, who heads the chain, will become president of Republic's new-car division.
In a continuing buying spree, Republic and Huizenga have acquired Mullinax Inc., the largest Ford dealer in the United States, Magic Ford and Magic Lincoln-Mercury in southern California, and leading southwestern Dodge dealer Bell Dodge.
Tuesday's deal came just a day after Republic said it would pay about $100 million to acquire Grubb Automotive Inc., which owns and operates six new and used vehicle dealerships in Arizona and Texas.
"Republic is now one of the largest purchasers of new vehicles ...," Montgomery Securities analyst Jordan Hymowitz said in a recent report. "As such, we believe they have an increased ability to request vehicles (makes, models, etc.), as well as rental terms to meet its retailing terms."
Other participants in the consolidating auto-retailing business are the CarMax superstore chain of electronics merchant Circuit City and United Auto Group of New York, which has grown to be the fourth largest new-car dealer in the country since 1992.
In still another deal reflecting auto-retailing consolidation, the largest single franchisee of Budget Rent a Car Corp., Team Rental Group Inc. of Daytona Beach, Fla., agreed Tuesday to acquire Ford Motor Co.'s interest in Budget in a deal valued at around $350 million. Ford does not own Budget outright, but controls it through a stock purchase option.
Republic Industries, based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., also operates in the solid waste and electronic security services industries.
Republic's stock gained $1.125 to $37 in afternoon trading on the Nasdaq market.
U.S. computer makers are expected to report solid fourth quarter earnings in what is normally the strongest quarter of the year, but the stronger dollar will have a negative impact on some big systems makers.
And despite all the negative reports from computer retailers about lackluster personal computer sales, analysts said most U.S. PC makers -- with the exception of Apple Computer Inc and AST Research Inc -- will show strong sales growth, fueled by hefty corporate PC buying.
Apple is first to report, with Q1 late Wednesday.  
Earlier this month, Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple Computer forecast it would report an operating loss for its first quarter, ending December, citing weak U.S. demand for its Performa consumer PC and continued shortages of notebooks.
"Most of the indications are that business throughout the (PC) sector, other than Apple, was strong," said Eugene Glazer, a Dean Witter analyst. "With all the negative comments you are hearing from retailers, some of that market was going to the direct marketers (like Dell Computer Corp and Gateway 2000 Inc )."  
Analysts said PC leader Compaq Computer Corp is likely to report strong earnings, especially after semiconductor giant Intel Corp reported a blow-out fourth quarter, surpassing Wall Street's highest estimates.
Compaq gets about 20 percent or so of its revenues from the retail consumer channel and the rest of its revenues are from sales to corporate customers, which were booming.
"The consumer business didn't hurt them," said Jim Poyner, an Oppenheimer &amp; Co analyst. "Dell and Compaq are benefitting from the same forces, the transition to the PentiumPro (chip), a hot notebook market and progress in the server business."  
On the larger systems side, companies like International Business Machines Corp, Digital Equipment Corp, Unisys Corp, are expected to see some negative impact from a stronger dollar overseas, plus sluggish sales in Europe, while business in the U.S. remains strong.
"Business is quite good in the U.S.," said Jay Stevens, a Dean Witter analyst. "Where it's slower, or where the concerns have been expressed is overseas, mostly in Europe."
Digital is expected to report a slight profit, as it slowly recovers from sales force problems in Europe and a money-losing PC business. PCs are expected to break-even.  
"I think it will be a good quarter," said Steve Milunovich, a Morgan Stanley analyst. "The dollar did strengthen at the end of the quarter. You will generally see numbers near consensus."
Analysts said they expect IBM's earnings to be a bit better than expected, but that its expenses for headcount reductions will be greater than the previous quarters.
"Europe remains a slower grower, which has led to a number of organizational and planned efficiency changes," said John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst. IBM reports after the stock market closes next Tuesday, changing an old tradition.  
The following estimates for some major computer makers are compiled by First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
    COMPANY		   CONSENSUS	     DATE
Amdahl Corp		   profit $0.13	  Jan. 29
Apple Computer Q1	   loss $0.62	    Jan. 15
Compaq Computer	     profit $1.53	  Jan. 22
Digital Equipment Q2	profit $0.10	  Jan. 16
Gateway 2000		  profit $1.01	  Jan. 23
IBM Corp			profit $3.88	  Jan. 21
Sun Microsystems Q2	 profit $0.42	  Jan. 16
Unisys Corp		   profit $0.13	  week Jan. 20
Most U.S. nursing home and hospital companies are expected to report higher profits in the fourth quarter on some easy comparisons, but Wall Street is wary of negative surprises.
"A lot of them are going against very weak results last year so they have easy comparisons," said NatWest Securities industry analyst Marie Conway.
At the same time, Schroder Wertheim analyst William McKeever said, "There's probably more potential for downside to earnings than upside ... There could be disappointments."  
Pressing industry issues such as Medicare and Medicaid reform and reimbursement rates for contract therapy services remain unresolved. "Little progress has been made in Washington," said Scott &amp; Stringfellow analyst George Shipp.
The industry finished a volatile 1996 on the upswing after a big summer sell-off. The Morgan Stanley Healthcare Provider index of 15 top hospital management and nursing home stocks was near 326 Tuesday, up from 288 at the start of the year.
"We like the sector in general, although there are some issues that have dogged certain companies," Conway said.  
For instance, Sun Healthcare Group Inc and Horizon/CMS Healthcare Corp, dragged down by various problems, have lagged the sector, she said.
Earnings at Integrated Health Services Inc are forecast to be barely improved from last year after the company's acquisitions of Coram Healthcare Corp and First American Health Care of Georgia Inc. "They've made a very bold bet on home healthcare ... Things at Integrated are getting a little better," Shipp said.  
Health Management Associates Inc is expected to lead the for-profit hospital sector in earnings gains, with moderate increases projected for Tenet HealthCare and sector giant Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.
U.S. FIRST CALL CONSENSUS QTRLY EARNINGS FORECASTS
Company			   Qtr  EPS estimate  Yr-ago EPS
Beverly Enterprises	    Q4	$0.21	  $0.10
Columbia/HCA		     Q4	$0.61	  $0.53
Health Care &amp; Retirement     Q4	$0.33	  $0.27
Health Management Associates Q1	$0.18	  $0.14
Integrated Health		Q4	$0.53	  $0.52
Manor Care			 Q3	$0.39	  $0.33
Tenet Healthcare		 Q3	$0.38	  $0.33
Vencor Inc			 Q4	$0.51	  $0.41
NOTE: Manor Care figures exclude earning of Choice Hotels unit. Manor Care and Tenet Q3's end in February.
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
The government's largest wireless phone auction ended Tuesday, with prices taking a U-turn back toward earth after 125 companies bid a total of $2.5 billion to offer a new generation of cellular service.
The total was down 75 percent from a similar Federal Communications Commission auction that raised $10.2 billion last May. The average price for a license to provide "personal communications services," or PCS, tumbled more than 90 percent.
PCS technology is expected to turn the wireless phone into a mass-market product, allowing consumers to use different communications services -- such as phone, paging, fax and Internet access -- through a single handheld device.
The drop reflected the flood of new entrants into the wireless phone market, a dearth of new money after the sky-high prices paid at last year's PCS sale, and the smaller slice of airwaves covered by the new licenses, analysts said.
The top bidder this time around was a unit of No. 3 long-distance carrier Sprint Corp. It bid $544 million for 160 licenses in Chicago, Houston, and Atlanta, among other cities.
Next was a unit of long-distance giant AT&amp;T Corp., which bid $407 million for 222 licenses in New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere, followed by a unit of BellSouth Corp., which bid $205 million for 39 licenses.
The No. 4 bidder was OPCSE-Galloway Consortium, a consortium made up of Omnipoint Corp. of Arlinton, Va., and Galloway Entrepreneurs of Charlottesville, Va. It bid $181 million for 109 licenses.
The FCC sold 1,479 PCS licenses nationwide in three different blocks, making this the most licenses sold at once. A third were reserved for small companies. Markets that generated the highest bidding were New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
Based on the population sizes covered by the licenses, the average bid at the auction was just $3.32 a person.
That was down from the average bid of $39.88 at last May's "C-Block" sale, which was reserved for small companies. Analysts called those prices too high for companies to make much money.
The FCC's first PCS auction, which raised $7.7 billion and ended in March 1995, had an average bid of $15.54.
"It's phenomenally cheaper," said Jonathan Foxman, vice president of Americall International, a Phoenix-based PCS firm that bid at the auction.
Mark Lowenstein, a vice president with Boston consulting firm Yankee Group Inc., called the latest prices "more reflective of the current market reality."
Analysts listed several factors behind the lower prices.
The airwave parcels sold, at 10 megahertz (MHz) each, were a third the size of the 30 MHz parcels sold at the two prior auctions and thus less attractive. The permits cover less geographic area.
Analysts also said the wireless market was getting crowded with companies holding PCS and traditional cellular licenses -- meaning less profits.
"The market is going to be too crowded," predicted P. William Bane, a director at Mercer Management Consulting.
The steep prices at last year's PCS auction meant less money available this time around. "The latest prices are an indication that people have run out of money," said Bane.
In addition, analysts said, Wall Street has not rushed to extend financing to PCS providers.
Diversified manufacturer Pacific BBA Ltd said on Tuesday trading conditions in the second half of calendar 1996 had been softer than expected and it now expected 1996 profits to be around the same level as 1995.
"I've only seen July's results and verbal figures for August, but it will depend on how the rest of the year unfolds," Pacific BBA managing director Barry Jackson told Reuters.
"It's looking a bit softer than we would like. We were really budgetting for an economy that was stretching a touch but it doesn't look like it's going to do it," Jackson said.  
Jackson said in an interview the 1996 profit would be similar to calendar 1995's net profit of A$15.9 million.
"I think it's going to be much the same figure," he said.
Jackson cited the flat Australian economy, relatively weak automotive sales world-wide and the cost of developing new projects as the major constraints on short-term profit growth.
But he said the domestic economy should pick up in 1997 and put the group on track to achieving its goal of 15 to 20 percent annual growth in sales and earnings before interest and tax.  
But Jackson, speaking after the announcement of a A$200 million, five-year contract to supply brake parts to a North American vehicle manufacturer, seemed to be more concerned about coping with rapid growth than with a sluggish local economy.
Pacific BBA, which makes car parts, plastic packaging and construction products, has budgeted to spend around A$60 million in 1996 in capital expenditure, Jackson said.
"I think it (capital expenditure) will be two to three times depreciation (charges) for the next year or so," he said, adding that this was around twice the average for manufacturers.  
The group is examining a range of expansion opportunities in Asia and North America, requiring annual capital investments of between as little as A$5 million and A$200 million.
"We have people looking full time at these opportunities," he said. But the group must expand cautiously, he added.
"We've just got to be careful we don't over-stretch ourselves," he said. "Growth holds back your short-term earnings," he added.
Jackson rued the failure of Pacific BBA's recent bid for fellow Australian manufacturer Azon Ltd, which was acquired instead by U.S.-based Illinois Tool Works Inc.  
Pacific BBA needs to become bigger or find a big partner to seize major new opportunities, especially in the automotive industry where the group wants to become a global niche player, he said.
Asked if its small size in world terms could become a brake on Pacific BBA's growth, Jackson said: "It's not been yet, but it could become one and we were trying to say to the market when we were trying to buy Azon that this could give us the ability to do anything we want to."
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Dairy and fruit juice group National Foods Ltd said on Tuesday its reforms announced in July were now almost fully completed and the group was poised for above-budget profit growth in the next six to nine months.
"It's almost fully implemented," outgoing National Foods managing director Graham Reaney told Reuters in an interview.
"The real benefits start to emerge as people become more familiar with the new structures and clearly there'll be gains over the next six to nine months," Reaney said.  
Earlier on Tuesday National Foods posted a 17.3 percent higher operating profit before tax of A$37.6 million for the year to June 30.
Its net profit rose to A$15.05 million from A$10.77 million after an abnormal loss of A$7.89 million.
Net profit before abnormals rose to A$22.7 million from A$19.2 million, against analysts' expectations of about A$23 million.
National Foods said in announcing its results, earnings for July and August were ahead of budget and comfortably ahead of last year.  
Reaney repeated that this meant that 1996/97 profits were likely to be higher than in 1995/96, but he would not say how much higher. "But its clearly going in the right direction."
The reforms had created a more efficient distribution system for chilled foods, increasing sales coverage for National Foods' products, Reaney said.
"It's a combination of cost reduction and enhanced distribution, and looking at our beverage division, our flavoured milks are performing particularly strongly," he said.
"There are a number of areas that starting to perform a lot better for us."  
Reaney said the sale of non-core assets had also been completed and the company was now focused on extracting profit growth from existing assets.
"We would consider all businesses that we have today as core businesses," he said, adding, however, that he could not rule out future acquisitions.
"But the first objective to make those assets that we currently own work better, produce more profit, more cash flow."
Singapore's Camerlin Pte Ltd has about eight percent of National Foods and Hong Kong's Mingly Corp has about 10.4 percent of the company.  
Reaney said he would not comment on shareholders' intentions or actions or whether either of the Asian-based investors planned any takeover or had brought on any board room reshuffle.
He said he had resigned the managing director's position having worked for the company for five years. "Five to seven years is a normal period for a chief executive and quite genuinely I do have other things to do," he said.
"I'm quite relaxed and if it wasn't an amicable arrangement I wouldn't be staying on as a non-executive director," he said on his last day in the job.  
Reaney's replacement, Max Ould, was chief executive of Peters Foods until April and presided over the transfer of operations from Pacific Dunlop Ltd to Nestle Australia.
National Foods' shares closed up three cents at A$1.41.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Australian life office National Mutual Holdings Ltd will finally put an indicative value on its own shares on Wednesday, removing much of the guesswork that has surrounded the pricing of the group's A$2 billion-plus float.
The group's net tangible asset backing of A$2.36 billion or A$1.39 per share is expected to serve as the pricing yardstick for the offer, with retail investors receiving a discount on the final price paid by institutions, insurance analysts said.  
"I would have thought somewhere around A$1.30 and A$1.35 (per share for retail investors)," a stock analyst said on Tuesday, noting the demand for shares from National Mutual policy-holders would largely determine the retail price.
Policy-holders own 49 percent of National Mutual Holdings, and French parent Axa the rest.
"Obviously if the demand from policy-holders has been as strong as they say, there's going to be less shares available to institutional investors, so that will push the price up a little."  
National Mutual, which gave its 1.2 million policy-holders until August 23 to choose between taking shares or cashing out, has so far declined to comment on policy-holder demand for scrip, except to say the phones rang hot with inquiries.
It has also declined to specify the retail and institutional portions of the offer, leaving its "embedded value" or net asset backing (NTA) of A$1.39 per share as the only guide to a price.
National Mutual chief executive Geoff Tomlinson has said the group's NTA is an indicator of the final offer price, suggesting the group's earnings are too volatile to use the conventional appraisal valuation method, which accounts for future earnings.  
Under the offer process, Tomlinson will also announce the indicative price range for institutional investors on Wednesday as well as the total number of shares for sale by public offer.
The lack of any hard information on the policy-holders' response has led to some widely varying views on price.
One Sydney-based analyst said the retail price could exceed the group's NTA, suggesting policy-holders who elected to take cash would not want to see the price of the shares they forfeited leap in the secondary market.  
"At the end of the day, the people who took the cash alternative don't want to see the price at 40 or 50 percent above where they took the cash," he told Reuters.
At an issue price of A$1.39, National Mutual would list on the Australian Stock Exchange at a price-earnings ratio of 11.8 times, against the average across industrial stocks of 13.4.
"That's at the upper end of where we would expect these guys to trade, but there's some earnings growth to come through in (years ending September 30) 1997 and 1998," the stock analyst told Reuters.  
He said the A$1.39 NTA quoted by National Mutual undervalued its real NTA by five to six cents per share, and this implied a maximum offer price of A$1.45 for institutional investors.
"I don't think they (the institutions) are really going to want to pay much of a premium over embedded value," he said.
Another Sydney-based analyst said the institutional offer price could reach as high at A$1.60, based on a retail offer price of around the A$1.39 NTA.  
"I think there's going to be a lot of interest, particularly in overseas institutions," he said. "I think there's a lot of value there...," he added, citing an improving Australian life insurance market and good growth potential in Asia.
The group's 69 percent-owned National Mututal Asia Ltd, based in Hong Kong, and National Mututal Life in Australia account for the bulk of the group's earnings.
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
British yachtsman Tony Bullimore's survival for four days in the icy Southern Ocean owes much to the high-tech safety equipment available to the modern sailor.
This year's London International Boat Show was crammed with gadgets such as the Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB). It costs 700 pounds ($1,176) but proved its worth by showing Bullimore's Australian rescuers where to look for him.
Bullimore's ordeal in the upturned hull of his yacht after it capsized in a solo round-the-world race is a far cry from the "Mediterranean marina" which was the centrepiece of this year's boat show at Earl's Court in west London.
Huge "Gin Palaces" abound but the show's organisers were keen to stress "messing about in boats" is not only for the rich.
The smallest vessel on show, the aptly-named Tadpole, was six foot (two metres) long and costs 297 pounds.
Around 800 boats were on display, 20 of them bobbing gently up and down in a giant indoor marina, built specially for the show, an annual event.
The 200,000 visitors had to wear slippers over their shoes to protect the polished decks if they wanted to go on board.
The British boating sector has a turnover of some two billion pounds and the boats on show were not just for dreaming about. Orders totalling millions of pounds were placed in the first week of the show, which ended on Sunday.
TRADITIONAL VERSUS HIGH-TECH EQUIPMENT
The halls were full of the paraphernalia of boating, with stands displaying traditional brass clocks and barometers competing with the latest in high-tech satellite navigation equipment.
If the latest in pump-action lavatories, the smoothest automatic winches or a machine that turns sea-water into drinking water is what you are after, this was the place to be.
Some firms demonstrated state-of-the-art sail materials, whose development owes much to the space programme. Others showed how traditional wooden "clinker" boat-building still has a place in the late 20th century.
The sunnier side of pleasure cruising was to the fore, but, topically, there were also tales of disaster and endeavour.
Among the speakers were a couple who 23 years ago spent four months drifting in the Pacific in a tiny inflatable life-raft.
Motor boats such as the sleek Sunseekers, the latest model of which, the Predator, sells for 1.8 million pounds, dominate one area, but most of the floorspace was dedicated to sailing.
SAILING REFLECTS BRITISH APPROACH TO THE SEA
This, says Tony Beechey, executive chairman of the British Marine Industries Federation, is in keeping with the British approach to the sea and reflects recent Olympic successes.
"Britons have always been more sail-oriented than power, maybe it is something to do with the climate...but we seem to have a stronger sailboat past," he told Reuters.
John Merricks, who with Ian Walker won a silver medal at the Atlanta Olympics in the 470 dinghy class, says boats need to keep evolving if sailing is to compete with other sports, even if this means his class is dropped after the 2000 games.
"It's harder to draw people into the sport with new outdoor activities competing against it," he said. "We need new, fast, exciting and colourful classes."
Many visitors made a beeline for the 49-er, recently selected as a new Olympic class and one of a new breed of "skiffs" --lightning-quick sailing dinghies which appear to fly across the water with both helmsman and crew suspended from trapezes.
They may cost just over 10,000 pounds, but Martin Wadhams of LDC Racing Sailboats which produces the space-age looking dinghy says fitness, skill and the agility of crews are what counts.
"The major thing about the boat is it brings the true spirit of the Olympics. It is going to spawn a new era in sailing." ($1=.5950 Pound)
Apple Computer Inc. Wednesday reported a $120 million loss in the first quarter of fiscal 1997 and warned investors it did not expect to return to profitability until September.
The troubled computer maker attributed the loss to slow sales of its its consumer-oriented Performa desktop computers during the normally robust Christmas quarter.
Apple's loss, which equaled 96 cents a share, compared with a loss of $69 million, or 56 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Sales for its first fiscal quarter ended on Dec. 27 fell to $2.13 billion from $3.15 billion.
Based on the weak first quarter results, the company said it planned to develop additional restructuring programs during the second quarter with the goals of reducing its break-even point to $8 billion in annual revenues and enabling Apple to return to  profitability by the fourth fiscal quarter, which ends Sept. 26, 1997.
Previously, Apple had promised to return to sustainable profits by March but industry analysts had started to question that goal after Apple disclosed less than two weeks ago that sales of its Performa line were running behind plan.
"While we were very disappointed by the Performa sales results and the associated loss, our financial position remains sound," said Apple Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson. "We exited the quarter with $1.8 billion in cash and continued to show improvements in our inventory management during the quarter.
"Additionally we saw a 15 percent sequential increase in our high-end Power Macintosh sales," he said. "We significantly exceeded our internal plans for shipments of PowerBooks and expect their availability to continue to improve in the second quarter."
Nevertheless, analysts said the results, which Apple forecast less than two weeks ago represented a setback for Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio, who had set a goal of stanching Apple's losses in 1996.
"Our expectations now do not show a profit until the fourth quarter, which ends in September," said Walter Winnitzki, analyst at brokerage PainWebber Inc. in New York.
Lawyers battling cigarette companies on behalf of flight attendants exposed for decades to second-hand smoke on Wednesday began notifying potential claimants of a historic tobacco trial set to begin in June.
A mass mailing to some 120,000 former and current flight attendants on U.S. airlines seeks to identify non-smokers who suffer ailments such as lung cancer.  
Print advertisements in union and trade magazines, an Internet site and follow-up mailings seeking claimaints are to follow during the next two months.
The class-action suit claims that the illnesses were caused by second-hand smoke from cigarettes aboard airliners and seeks unspecificed damages likely to total billions of dollars.
It accuses Philip Morris Cos Inc and other leading tobacco companies of hiding the dangers of second-hand, or environmental, smoke from Americans.  
"This is clearly a milestone," said Richard Daynard, chairman of the Tobacco Liability Law Project at Northeastern University in Boston. "This is the first time a class-action case has gotten to notificiation," he said, referring to actions taken in the tobacco industry.
A separate suit in Louisiana seeking to represent as many as 50 million ill smokers was thrown out last year. Daynard said two other class-action suits, another in Miami and the second in Pennsylvania, were also scheduled to go to trial this year.
"This is a significant stage," said University of Colorado School of Law professor Christopher Mueller.  
Flight attendants lawyer Stanley Rosenblatt of Miami said 25,000 to 60,000 flight attendants would likely be included in the suit out of an estimated 300,000 who worked for U.S. airlines before in-flight smoking was banned.
The suit alleges that second-hand smoke causes cardiac conditions, cancer and 21 other ailments. Rosenblatt and Daynard said scientific findings had established links between those ailments and second-hand smoke that were strong enough to stand up in a jury trial.  
"That's a very big if," said Michael York, an attorney for the tobacco industry. "If he were successful in that, he has to come back and prove that second-hand smoke caused individual injuries."
Rosenblatt said damages, if any, would be set in follow-up trials after the completion of the June 2 trial, which he estimated would run two to three months in Dade County Court. Categories of claims, such as those of people suffering with emphysma, would likely be determined separately, he said.  
Tobacco attorneys had in recent months pressed Rosenblatt to spend heavily on a national media campaign, using television and popular magazines, but Dade County Circuit Judge Robert Kaye ruled that mail notification was sufficient.
Daynard and Mueller said the tobacco industry, in expectations it would beat Rosenblatt, wanted as many potential claimaints involved in the class-action suit since those people then would not be able to sue independently.
"We think the entire case is meritless," York said.
Rosenblatt said any claimants who did not write and ask to be excluded from the class-action lawsuit would be included. Typically, no more than five to 10 percent of class-action claimants drop out, legal experts said.
((-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013))
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key index set records for a second straight session on Wednesday, achieving new closing and intra-day highs.
The TSE 300 Composite Index rose 10.48 points to end at 6065.34, after earlier setting an intra-day high of 6080.15.
Trading was brisk with 114.6 million shares changing hands worth C$1.7 billion ($1.27 billion).
A rally in Canada's currency boosted investor interest in equities. "It is encouraging that we're up despite the 35-point drop in the Dow," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie.
The dollar strengthened by more than a full Canadian cent, ending at C$1.3413 (US$0.7456) from Tuesday's close of C$1.3519 (US$0.7397) and propelled the TSE to its second record close of 1997.
A bullish article on Canada in Britain's Financial Times newspaper sparked the rally, a dollar trader said.
Toronto posted gains in all but three of its 14 sub-indices -- forestry products, real estate and industrial products. The strong side was led by base metals, pipelines, banks and transports.
Advancing stocks outpaced declines 508 to 466, with 294 flat.
Small gold prospector Bre-X Minerals Ltd. was among the hotly traded stocks. Bre-X rose 1.10 to 24.45 on 2.2 million shares after Tuesday's announcement that Placer Dome Inc. offered a deal to share in the huge Busang gold deposit.
Placer finished flat at 28.10 while shares in Barrick Gold Corp., which is also negotiating a deal with Bre-X, dipped 0.40 to 35.05.
Investors shrugged off news that Indonesian businessman Jusuf Merukh had filed a C$2 billion ($1.49 billion) lawsuit in Canada against Bre-X, claiming part ownership of Busang.
Repap Enterprises Inc. fell 0.47 to 2.90 on doubts that its Avenor Inc. takeover would proceed.
Telecommunications firm Mitel Corp. jumped 0.90 to a new closing high of 10.10 after an analyst upgraded Mitel to buy from market perform and raised his 12-month target to 14 from 11.
Copper giant Rio Algom Ltd. fell 2.00 to 31.90 on 1.5 million shares after some investors decided to buy into a newly announced convertible debenture issue.
Ivory Coast's 1996/97 coffee season has begun amid slow buying and reports of variable quality, industry sources said.
"SIFCA (the largest Ivorian buyer) has started buying, so we are likely to see others follow," said one large exporter. "You could say that marks the real start of the season."
Buying had been limited in December although up-country agents had been active with larger than usual volumes.
Output is put at 230,000-250,000 tonnes for 1996/97, against 180,000 in 1995/96.
The season was officially opened on November 14, rather than early October, as the Caistab marketing agency struggled to set a recommended price closer to falling world market levels.
"It will be a very large crop," said one local analyst. "The coffee is now mainly off the trees and being sat on by farmers at village level."
Buyers reported variable quality and humidity up to 15 percent in some areas, against export limits of 13 percent. "Quality is particularly good around (northwestern) Man but elsewhere you will find opinion dependent on who you talk to," said one.
One source put arrivals by January 10 at San Pedro port at 3,337 tonnes, but figures for Abidjan were less clear.
Bank sources said in December they were reluctant to put money into coffee because of fears borrowers would not receive transfer payments from Caistab and would default on loans.
"That remains the case," said one exporter. "Banks are certainly reticent, so purchasing is still low." Continuing low world market prices added to the uncertainty, others said.
Bush tracks had dried out and some farmers were profiting from January sun to dry produce that was still damp because of the failure of harmattan desert winds to arrive in some areas in late December.
"Some farmers are also being paid below offical, recommended (500 CFA) a kilo prices," said one buying source.
Prices ranging between 300 and 500 CFA per kilo were being offered, depending on area and quality, the source said. But others said they were offering up to 540 for top quality grades.
One industry analyst said 44 exporters were licensed, against 32 last year, so some would struggle to balance accounts amid more acute internal price competition.
Attention is also turning to a report on further coffee sector liberalisation expected to be with donor market reform sponsors by the end of January.
Private British consultant Landell Mills and Co will submit its report amid donor calls for an end to cross-subsidies to the coffee sector from cocoa profits from the beginning of 1997/98.
"The price support is running at around 100 CFA a kilo based on current world prices," said one source.
The focus is also turning to Association of Coffee Producing Countries (ACPC) talks on January 23 which will focus on pushing up world prices through voluntary export restraints.
Russia is quietly importing some Western grain to offset its second meagre harvest in a row, but traders said on Wednesday that the country was too broke to be a big presence on world grain markets this year.
A senior Russian grains source who declined to be identified said unnamed Russian organisations had quietly bought several 12,000-tonne cargoes of U.S. No. 2 corn (maize) at the end of last year, importing the grain through the Baltic port of Riga.
But other Moscow sources -- eager to preserve secrecy in a market scarce on hard information and anxious about loose talk -- talked down the prospects for imports.
"There's enough grain on the (domestic) market," said Andrei Ambartsumyan, a vice-president at big traders Exportkhleb. "Quality is a different issue. But today I don't see any significant import orders."
Wildly varying estimates of how much Russia will import after its 69.0 million tonne harvest last year, one of the worst in three decades, have kept Western markets guessing about their chances of selling to the world's former biggest grain buyer.
The Soviet government imported tens of millions of tonnes of grain in the 1970s, staging a "great grain robbery" that markets have had trouble forgetting. In 1972 Moscow emptied the U.S. grain larder by buying heavily from all the major grain exporters simultaneously.
While Russia has said markets should forget the past and the Kremlin is no longer a buyer, private companies are combing Western and Central Asian markets for supplies.
"Russia will import this year because otherwise it doesn't get the quality it needs," said Vladimir Totsky, vice-president of Russia's Grain Union, referring to the fact that much Russian wheat from the 1996 crop is unfit for human consumption.
Anatoly Manellya of the Centre for Economic Trends, a government-sponsored think-tank, put Russia's total grain imports over 1997 from all sources at 5.0-6.0 million tonnes, repeating a forecast made earlier by farm expert Andrei Sizov.
Russia's 1996 harvest saw maize output slip to 1.5 million tonnes, down more than a third on 1995 levels.
But there is no consensus on Russia's overall import plans.
"I don't think they'll go back to buying large quantities of grain," said Tom Wiley, a European Union agriculture adviser, adding that imports of ready-made food were the trend.
One prominent Russian trader estimated Russia's total maize imports over the 1996/1997 crop marketing year at only 120,000 tonnes due to falling livestock numbers.
But Agriculture Minister Viktor Khklystun said in September 1996 that Russia would import 4.0-4.5 million tonnes of maize and soymeal to supplement the 1996 harvest, with maize purchases three times higher than soymeal purchases.
State Customs Committee figures show Russia imported a robust 114,000 tonnes of wheat in December, including 30,000 tonnes from the United States. Maize figures were not available.
Analysts said Russian farmers were worried less by plummeting production levels and more by the fact that domestic customers lacked purchasing power to buy their grain.
Russia's costly and inefficient farm sector, an economic basket-case, accounted for one quarter of gross domestic product in the Soviet era and wasted up to 20 percent of grain output.
Farmers, unable to adjust rapidly to market economy ways, have seen grain output nearly halved from peak levels, and food imports now comprise up to half of the Russian market.
One U.S grains source forecast fewer winterkill losses this year and said a protective blanket of snow had kept winter crops snug and tight. But the source said warm weather and floods in parts of the Northern Caucasus grain-belt could hit output.
Analysts said prospects for higher grain output this year were muted, with the area sown to winter crops last autumn down 10 percent on 1995's level.
"The signs aren't very good," Manellya said.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
First Chicago NBD Corp said Wednesday rising bankruptcy filings contributed to a rise in credit card charge offs in the fourth quarter.
Charge offs rose to 6.7 percent of managed receivables in the quarter, compared to 5.9 percent a year ago.
"The fourth quarter increase is due to a combination of factors, including a resurgence of bankruptcy filings after a third quarter lull, an increase in contractual charge offs, and average loan volume that was basically flat in the third quarter," chief financial officer Robert Rosholt said.  
But in a telephone message to investors, Rosholt also noted that credit card fee revenue rose 28 percent from a year ago to $259 million, adjusting for securitization.
"Clearly this demonstrates bank card's ability to counter some of the effects of deteriorating credit quality," he said.
While the credit card business continues to be profitable for the $104.6 billion asset bank holding company, some analysts noted the charge-off rate was high.
"I think that's very clear that that's not as profitable an operation as it is at other places," said James Schutz, analyst at Chicago Corp.  
But other analysts said the bank has tightened credit standards in the past year and were less concerned about the charge-off rate.
"That thing has bounced around all over this year (1996) and it's still a very profitable line of business this year," said Robert Ollech, analyst at Principal Financial Securities.
Rosholt also said the bank plans to improve its trading operations to restore results in market-driven revenues.  
Market-driven revenues were $83 million in the fourth quarter, up from $40 million in the previous quarter but down from the bank's average of $100 million a quarter, Rosholt said.
Trading profits were $12 million in the quarter, compared to a $12 million loss in the third quarter.
"We plan to get back to our $100 million per quarter average as we improve our execution of trading activities this year," Rosholt said.
Return on common equity was 17.5 percent in the quarter, up from 15.4 percent a year ago, while return on assets was 1.46 percent, up from 1.02 percent a year ago.
Earlier Wednesday, the bank reported operating income of $377 million or $1.14 a share in the fourth quarter, compared to $318 million or $0.96 a year ago.
Earnings were $0.01 a share below estimates, according to First Call. First Chicago shares were up 1/8 at 54-3/8.
((--Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
Apple Computer Inc. Wednesday reported a $120 million loss in the first quarter of fiscal 1997 and warned investors it did not expect to return to profitability until September.
The troubled computer maker attributed the loss to slow sales of its its consumer-oriented Performa desktop computers during the normally robust Christmas quarter.
Apple's loss, which equalled 96 cents a share, compared with a loss of $69 million, or 56 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Sales for its first fiscal quarter ended on Dec. 27 fell to $2.13 billion from $3.15 billion.
Based on the weak first quarter results, the company said it planned to develop additional restructuring programmes during the second quarter with the goals of reducing its break-even point to $8 billion in annual revenues and enabling Apple to return to  profitability by the fourth fiscal quarter, which ends Sept. 26, 1997.
Previously, Apple had promised to return to sustainable profits by March but industry analysts had started to question that goal after Apple disclosed less than two weeks ago that sales of its Performa line were running behind plan.
"While we were very disappointed by the Performa sales results and the associated loss, our financial position remains sound," said Apple Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson. "We exited the quarter with $1.8 billion in cash and continued to show improvements in our inventory management during the quarter.
"Additionally we saw a 15 percent sequential increase in our high-end Power Macintosh sales," he said. "We significantly exceeded our internal plans for shipments of PowerBooks and expect their availability to continue to improve in the second quarter."
Nevertheless, analysts said the results, which Apple forecast less than two weeks ago represented a setback for Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio, who had set a goal of stanching Apple's losses in 1996.
"Our expectations now do not show a profit until the fourth quarter, which ends in September," said Walter Winnitzki, analyst at brokerage PainWebber Inc. in New York.
Lawyers battling cigarette companies on behalf of flight attendants exposed for decades to second-hand smoke began notifying potential claimants Wednesday of the first broad class-action tobacco suit to go to trial.
The mass mailing to some 120,000 former and current flight attendants on U.S. airlines was meant to find non-smoking stewards and stewardesses who have ailments such as lung cancer, attorneys for the plaintiffs said.
Print advertisements, notices on an Internet site and additional mailings will follow. The trial is to begin on June 2 in Miami's Dade County Court.
The class-action claims the illnesses among non-smoking flight attendants were caused by second-hand smoke from cigarettes aboard airliners and seeks unspecificed damages likely to total billions of dollars.
It accuses Philip Morris Cos. Inc., the world's biggest cigarette company and maker of the Marlboro brand, and other leading U.S. tobacco companies of hiding the dangers of second-hand, or environmental, smoke from Americans.
"This is clearly a milestone," said Richard Daynard, chairman of the Tobacco Liability Law Project at Northeastern University in Boston.
"This is the first time a class-action case (against tobacco companies) has gotten to notificiation," Daynard said.
Another suit in Louisiana seeking to represent as many as 50 million ill smokers was thrown out last year. Daynard said two other class-action suits, another in Miami and the second in Pennsylvania, are also scheduled to go to trial this year.
"This is a signicant stage," said University of Colorado School of Law professor Christopher Mueller.
Flight attendants' lawyer Stanley Rosenblatt of Miami said 25,000 to 60,000 sick people would likely be included in the suit out of an estimated 300,000 or more flight attendants who worked for U.S. airlines before in-flight smoking was banned.
The suit alleges that second-hand smoke causes cardiac ailments, cancer and 21 other ailments. Rosenblatt and Daynard said scientific findings do establish links strong enough to stand up in a jury trial.
"That's a very big 'if'," said Michael York, an attorney for the tobacco industry. "If he were successful in that, he has to come back and prove that second-hand smoke caused individual injuries."
Rosenblatt said damages, if any, would be set in follow-up trials after the finish of the June 2 trial, which he estimated would run two to three months. Categories of claims, such as those of people suffering with emphysema, would likely be determined separately, he said.
Tobacco attorneys had in recent months pressed Rosenblatt to spend heavily on a national media campaign, using television and popular magazines, but Dade County Circuit Judge Robert Kaye ruled that mail notification was sufficient.
The mass mailing costs about $1 a letter, Rosenblatt said.
Daynard and Mueller said the tobacco industry, in expectations it would beat Rosenblatt, wanted as many potential claimaints involved in the class-action suit since those people then would not be able to sue independently.
"We think the entire case is meritless," York said.
Rosenblatt said any claimants who did not write and ask to be excluded from the class-action lawsuit would be included. Typically, no more than five to 10 percent of class-action claimants drop out, legal experts said.
Microsoft Corp expects desktop applications led by its Office suite to bring in about $5 billion in revenues in the current fiscal year ending June 30, an executive said in an interview.
Richard Fade, vice president in charge of the desktop applications division, also said in the interview he expected 35 to 45 percent of users to upgrade to the new Office 97 version, although he declined to project a timeframe.  
Office has an installed base of some 24 million customers, and another 30 million use its component applications such as Word and Excel, which also are being upgraded.
Analysts estimate the software giant will post overall revenues of slightly more than $10 billion this year, up from $8.7 billion in fiscal 1996. With an expected spike in sales driven by Office 97, the productivity applications alone could account for $3 billion, analysts say.
Office 97 is "a huge release for us," Fade said.  
"It's probably the most significant thing aside from the browser work that we've done since the simultaneous introduction of Office 95 and Windows 95 a little more than a year ago," he said.
Fade said hundreds of person-years went into the new release, in the works since late 1994. He said virtually the entire Office division of nearly 1,000 people had been working on the product since August 1995.  
In addition to a new information management system called Outlook, the product includes better integration of applications and better compatibility with the Internet.
Fade said Microsoft plans to target different user types through four separate packages of the Office components and other Microsoft applications.
Office standard and professional versions will be available widely Thursday, while versions for small businesses and home users will be out within two months.
Fade expressed skepticism that an alliance of Corel Corp and Netscape Communications Corp announced this week would be able to achieve the tight integration of the Office suite.
But he said the plan by the two companies is an indication of the continuing tough competition in a category Microsoft has dominated for several years.
"It's a very competitive, alive category," Fade said.
((-- Reuters Seattle bureau 206-386-4848))
BZW, the investment banking arm of Barclays Plc, said on Wednesday it plans to use state-of-the-art defence technology to help it with a perennial problem -- managing risk in the financial markets.
The bank has formed the Financial Laboratory Club to develop new risk management solutions, using the scientific and computing potential of the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency of the British Ministry of Defence -- the biggest research and development organisation in Western Europe.
Also involved in the project, which has funding of 1.8 million pounds ($3.0 million) for the first two years, are Silicon Graphics, insurance company Royal Sun Alliance, the London Stock Exchange, the City University and Business School and risk management consultancy Z/Yen.
The British government is providing a grant of 750,000 pounds for the project and BZW is putting in 500,000 over two years.
With margins getting ever finer in the highly competitive investment banking world, BZW hopes defence technology can help it keep ahead.
"We have to manage our risk well," said Martin Dooney, global head of money markets at BZW. "We want to start setting the standard and make strides to be ahead of the pack."
Dooney and DERA scientists believe there is enough common ground between the worlds of the trading room and the battlefield to make the exercise worthwhile.
"The risks are obviously different," he said. "For the crew of a main battle tank it could be the missile defences of the opposing force and for the bond trader it could be the movement of short-term interest rates."
But Dooney said there are many similarities, not least the fact that that both are high-stress environments which both require the sophisticated modelling and simulation techniques which have, until now, been largely the preserve of the defence industries.
One reason for this is that research into this field needs massive computing power which DERA can provide via its four Cray Computer Corp super-computers which are millions of times more powerful than the average desktop PC.
BZW believes the project can help people at every level in the company to better understand the firm's risk position by replacing a mass of numbers by visualisation techniques.
The project will also look into using modelling techniques used to develop military consoles to look at the design of future trading stations and try to develop different ways of evaluating dealer performance.
This will, in particular, provide early warning of problems based on trading pattern evidence.
"The financial services industry wants something that it can use in the heat of battle," said Michael Mainelli, development director at DERA.
"If financial markets are destabilised they could be as, or even more, damaging than a conventional war."
$1=.5976 Pound)
KLA Instruments Corp. and Tencor Instruments said Tuesday they will merge in a stock deal that would create a semiconductor capital equipment powerhouse with combined revenue exceeding $1 billion.
Analysts said the deal creates a powerhouse in the critical market for semiconductor capital equipment that can be used to closely monitor production and improve yields. This capability has become ever more important as the cost of computer chip-making plants soars into billions of dollars.
"This company in their particular segment of the equipment market is just invincible," said Gus Richard, Hambrecht and Quist semiconductor capital equipment analyst. "KLA's been the dominant player and Tencor's been a very, very strong second."
The new company will be able to provide essentially one-stop shopping for chip process and diagnostics equipment.
Richard said the combined product offerings will enable semiconductor manufacturers to augment incremental capacity by identifying and eliminating scrap earlier in the process.
At current prices, with a total of 85.6 million shares outstanding after the stock swap transaction, the deal is worth roughly $3.4 billion, or nearly 3.5 times revenues, which analysts said was a reasonable valuation.
The companies said the deal, subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, will be accounted for as a pooling of interests and set up to qualify as a tax-free reorganization.
Under terms of the merger agreement, the companies said shares and options for KLA Instruments common stock will be exchanged for outstanding shares and options of Tencor on the basis of one KLA share for each Tencor share.
The combined company, which aims to provide the most comprehensive measurement and analysis systems for yield management available to the semiconductor industry, will employ more than 3,900 people worldwide.
The companies said the deal was expected to close during the quarter ending June 30, 1997.
The new company, to be called KLA-Tencor,  aims to combine complementary product lines to create a full-line supplier of yield management products and services. KLA is based in San Jose and Tencor in nearby Milpitas, Calif.
The merger comes as semiconductor equipment stocks have been rebounding from a cyclical downturn in mid-1996, when tumbling prices for memory chips due to sharply increased capacity and insufficient demand chilled the sector.
KLA's stock hit a 52-week intraday high of $41.625 before closing at $40.875, up 87.5 cents on the day. Tencor also hit a year intraday high of $31.25 before before closing at $30.50, up 43.75 cents.
The merger was announced after the close of trading in the Nasdaq market.
After hours, shares of Tencor were reported soaring as high as $37, while KLA fell as low as $39 on the news.
"It's one of the most rapidly-growing segments of the equipment market," Richard said. "These two players are the dominant players in the market and what's amazing is their product offerings are almost completely complementary."
Analysts said executives of the companies told them in a conference call that their lawyers anticipate no regulatory obstacles, although the analysts said in some areas the companies control some 60 percent to 70 percent of certain markets.
KLA Chairman Kenneth Levy will become chairman of KLA-Tencor, while Tencor Instruments Chairman, President and Chief Executive Jon Tompkins will be Chief Executive of the new combination, the companies said.
Computer makers are expected to report solid fourth-quarter earnings in what is normally the strongest quarter of the year, but the stronger dollar will hurt some big systems makers.
Despite all the negative reports from computer retailers about lackluster personal computer sales, analysts said most U.S. PC makers -- with the exception of Apple Computer Inc. and AST Research Inc. -- will show strong sales growth, fuelled by hefty corporate buying.
Apple is the first to report, with first-quarter results due late on Wednesday.
Earlier this month, Cupertino, California-based Apple forecast it would report an operating loss for its first quarter ended last month, citing weak U.S. demand for its Performa consumer PC and continued shortages of notebook computers.
Chip-maker Intel Corp, powered by surging demand for its Pentium and Pentium Pro microprocessors, reported on Tuesday its fourth quarter profits more than doubled to $1.9 billion, exceeding even Wall Street's most optimistic estimates.
"Most of the indications are that business throughout the (PC) sector, other than Apple, was strong," said Dean Witter analyst Eugene Glazer. "With all the negative comments you are hearing from retailers, some of that market was going to the direct marketers" like Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway 2000 Inc.
Analysts said the world's largest PC maker, Compaq Computer Corp, was likely to report strong earnings, especially after semiconductor giant Intel Corp. reported a blowout fourth quarter, surpassing Wall Street predictions.
Compaq gets about 20 percent or so of its revenues via store sales to consumers and the rest of its revenues from sales to corporate customers, which were booming.
"The consumer business didn't hurt them," said Jim Poyner, an Oppenheimer &amp; Co. analyst. "Dell and Compaq are benefiting from the same forces, the transition to the Pentium Pro (chip), a hot notebook (computer) market and progress in the server (network computer) business."
On the larger systems side, companies like International Business Machines Corp., Digital Equipment Corp. and Unisys Corp. are expected to see some negative impact from a stronger dollar overseas and sluggish sales in Europe, while business in the United States remains strong.
"Business is quite good in the U.S.," said Jay Stevens, another Dean Witter analyst. "Where it's slower, or where the concerns have been expressed, is overseas, mostly in Europe."
Digital is expected to report a slight profit as it slowly recovers from sales force problems in Europe and a money-losing PC business. PCs are expected to break even.
"I think it will be a good quarter," said Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich.
Analysts said that they expected IBM's earnings to be a bit better than expected, but that its expenses for job cuts will be greater than previous quarters.
"Europe remains a slower grower, which has led to a number of organisational and planned efficiency changes," said John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst. IBM reports its earnings next Tuesday.
Hong Kong business groups hit back on Wednesday at attempts to link China's permanent most favoured nation (MFN) trading perks with how Beijing handles Hong Kong after it reverts to Chinese control later this year.
U.S. Congressman Jim Kolbe, leading a 22-member delegation from the House of Representatives to Beijing, said on Tuesday the United States will probably want to monitor Hong Kong for at least a year before granting China permanent MFN status.
"If MFN were conditioned or taken away, especially during the transition period, it would clearly have a devastating effect and make it much more likely that all the things we want for Hong Kong would not be achieved," said Mark Michelson, former chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce.
China currently enjoys MFN, subject to annual review.
Hong Kong, which depends heavily on China-U.S. trade, fully supports China's application for full MFN status, which would allow China the same treatment as other big U.S. trading partners without the annual review.
"MFN should be the norm rather than a favour," said Selina Yen at the Hong Kong government's trade and industry branch.
"To us, MFN status is not a privilege. It should be granted to everybody as a normal trading basis. This is our position."
But few in Hong Kong expect to see China win full MFN status in 1997, the year that China takes back Hong Kong from Britain.
"It's unfortunate. Were it not for this being the year of the return of Hong Kong to China, I think it would have been an opportune time for the U.S. Congress to finally extend permanent MFN status," said Frank Martin, the American chamber president.
"But it is going to be difficult this year. Many members of Congress are very likely to want to take a wait-and-see attitude."
Legislation on permanent MFN has been submitted to Congress but has not been voted on.
China, which argues full MFN status is essential for healthy Sino-U.S. relations, granted Kolbe's congressional delegation an interview with President Jiang Zemin on Tuesday.
Political analysts said Kolbe was committed to achieving permanent MFN status for China, but had tried to remind Beijing the United States wants to see a smooth handover in Hong Kong, where many are worried that China might impose repressive rule.
"Would a vote to tie MFN to the transition be a good idea? No," said one analyst, who declined to be identified.
"But to kind of use it one last time to signal concern while everyone knows annual MFN is going to go through doesn't hurt."
China's annual application for MFN status goes to Congress in May. It has won approval every year since 1990.
However, former U.S. president George Bush was occasionally forced to use his presidential veto to eliminate various conditions that Congress attempted to attach.
U.S. President Bill Clinton, who accused Bush of coddling tyrants in the 1992 U.S. presidential election campaign debates, de-linked the annual review of MFN from China's human rights record in 1995.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
China on Wednesday handed over to U.S. military officers the remains of U.S. airmen who died 52 years ago when their bomber crashed into a remote southwestern Chinese mountain during World War Two.
"No matter where we must go or how much time it takes, America does not forget its warriors and we will endeavour to bring each and every one home," said Alan Liotta, deputy director of the MIA/POW (Missing In Action/Prisoner of War) office under the Department of Defence.
A senior Chinese military officer handed over two wooden chests containing remains and a third filled with personal effects to uniformed U.S. officers in a brief ceremony in the southwestern Guangxi region.
Four U.S. soldiers in full military uniform took the boxes, exchanged salutes with the Chinese officer and placed a folded U.S. flag on each of the three boxes. A formal ceremony is to be held in Beijing on Friday.
"Fifty years ago these brave young men scattered their blood over this beautiful region," said Liang Ziwei, director of foreign affairs in the town of Xingan.
A six-man forensic team from the U.S. Department of Defence clawed its way up the steep, slippery face of Maoer mountain on Tuesday to inspect the crash site and found human remains and parts of an American bomber.
The officials said findings confirmed information about the fatal crash that occurred on August 31, 1944. The human remains would be taken back to the United States for identification.
Local residents searching for wild herbs discovered the crash site last October. The B-24 bomber with its 10-man crew never returned from a raid on Japanese ships around Taiwan.
"I like the idea... that even if it is 52 years later that we discovered the remains that we make the effort to bring them back and show the honour and respect they deserve," U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Paul Phillips said after the ceremony.
People's Liberation Army Colonel Fu Jianping voiced China's gratitude for U.S. help in fighting Japan in World War Two.
"As a military man, I have a great respect for their spirit, especially the airmen who met with disaster here," he told Reuters.
U.S. officials first learned of the find when Chinese President Jiang Zemin handed over a video and photographs of the crash site to President Bill Clinton when the two met in Manila last November at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Jiang revealed the find at a time when Sino-U.S. ties, which plunged early last year, were recovering significantly.
"This demonstrates a spirit of cooperation and a longing for future peace and renewed relationships," U.S. Major Mark Keene said after the ceremony.
Chinese Defence Minister Chi Haotian gave U.S. Secretary of Defence William Perry two dogtags recovered from the site during a meeting in Washington last month.
Journalists who made the trek to the site saw a pile of charred and twisted metal wedged into a narrow crevasse on the mountain side. Higher up the slope was a chunk of the plane's fuselage along with part of an engine, also wedged into rock.
U.S. officials said they had made contact with all 10 families of the crewmen aboard the plane. They said the site appeared to have been untouched for more than half a century.
Hong Kong business groups hit back on Wednesday at U.S. attempts to link China's most favoured nation (MFN) trading perks with how Beijing handles Hong Kong after it reverts to Chinese control later this year.
U.S. Congressman Jim Kolbe, leading a 22-member delegation from the House of Representatives to Beijing, said on Tuesday the United States will probably want to monitor Hong Kong for at least a year before granting China permanent MFN status.
"If MFN were conditioned or taken away, especially during the transition period, it would clearly have a devastating effect and make it much more likely that all the things we want for Hong Kong would not be achieved," said Mark Michelson, former chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce.
China currently enjoys MFN, subject to annual review.
Hong Kong commentators noted that permanent MFN, which would allow China the same tariff treatment as other big U.S. trading partners without an annual review, was unlikely in 1997, the year that China takes back Hong Kong from Britain.
"It's unfortunate. Were it not for this being the year of the return of Hong Kong to China, I think it would have been an opportune time for the U.S. Congress to finally extend permanent MFN status," said Frank Martin, the American chamber president.
"But it is going to be difficult this year. Many members of Congress are very likely to want to take a wait-and-see attitude."
Legislation on permanent MFN has been submitted to Congress but has not been voted on.
China, which argues full MFN status is essential for healthy Sino-U.S. relations, granted Kolbe's congressional delegation an interview with President Jiang Zemin on Tuesday.
Political analysts said Kolbe was committed to achieving permanent MFN status for China, but had tried to remind Beijing the United States wants to see a smooth handover in Hong Kong, where many are worried that China might impose repressive rule.
"Would a vote to tie MFN to the transition be a good idea? No," said one analyst, who declined to be identified.
"But to kind of use it one last time to signal concern while everyone knows annual MFN is going to go through doesn't hurt."
As the leading entrepot for China-U.S. trade, the Hong Kong government has always backed China's application for MFN status. But on Wednesday it declined to comment on Kolbe's remarks.
China's annual application for MFN status goes to Congress in May. It has won approval every year since 1990.
However, former U.S. president George Bush was occasionally forced to use his presidential veto to eliminate various conditions that Congress attempted to attach.
U.S. President Bill Clinton, who accused Bush of coddling tyrants in the 1992 U.S. presidential election campaign debates, de-linked the annual review of MFN from China's human rights record in 1995.
Netscape Communications Corp. stock was battered for the second time in less than a week on Tuesday following cautionary comments by a Wall Street analyst regarding the Internet software company.
Merrill Lynch analyst Bruce Smith said in a research note that Netscape had scrambled to make its fourth-quarter goals in a way that could hurt its current first quarter and the outlook for all of 1997.
Netscape stock tumbled more than 10 percent, dropping $4.50 to $42.25 on the Nasdaq market on volume of more than 6.5 million shares. The stock was one of the most actively traded on the exchange.
The stock of the Mountain View, Calif.-based company has lost more than a quarter of its value since the end of 1996, including a drop of around 19 percent after another analysts' warning last Wednesday.
Smith said he remained neutral on the stock but cited industry sources as saying Netscape had scrambled to meet its fourth-quarter numbers at the end of 1996, which he said did not bode well for its current quarter and all of 1997.
"They closed a significant amount of business on Dec. 31 just to make the quarter, which they've never had to do before," he said. In his research note, Smith wrote, "We have heard of two major deals that were closed on Dec. 31, one of which apparently closed late in the evening."
But a spokeswoman for Netscape rebutted this.
Speaking after the market closed, she said the company did complete some of its deals toward the end of the quarter, but she denied it was pushing down to the wire to lock up deals that would make a major impact on its financial results.
"We did no deals that were of materially significance on Dec. 31," she said.
"Sure, we did deals towards the end of the quarter, like everyone does," the spokeswoman added.
Last Wednesday, the stock tumbled after Deutsche Morgan Grenfell analyst William Gurley cut his rating on the stock to "accumulate" from "buy" and cited risks from its transition to a new business plan and new pricing.
Several other analysts, including Goldman Sachs's Michael Parekh and Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.'s Mary Meeker, have put "buy" or "strong buy" ratings on the stock, recognising near-term risks but remaining upbeat on the stock in the longer term.
International specialty chemicals group BTP Plc said on Wednesday it expected profit margins at its key adhesive and textile coatings business to recover fully over the next 18 months.
Raw material price rises and intense competition pushed margins as low as three percent in the year to March. Divisional operating profit slumped 37 percent to 3.8 million stg.
But in a telephone interview with Reuters, finance director Rob Martin said, "There is no reason why over the next 12 to 18 months they can't be restored to six or seven percent."  
Weakness at adhesives and textile coatings and at the performance chemicals division helped hold BTP back in the year to March, with group pretax profit rising just 0.7 percent to 37.5 million stg.
The group is busy restructuring its adhesives manufacturing operations in France and Germany, and Martin said all group operations, which range from making preservative chemicals for cosmetics and toiletries to safety harnesses for people who work at heights, "are going quite well".
On a regional basis, Martin said, "The tougher markets are continental Europe, but there are signs of life even there."  
Sluggishness in France and Germany, which account for around 15 percent of group sales, continues to be a problem. "But things are getting better even there," Martin added.
BTP is a major supplier of agrochemical intermediates in the U.S., which accounts for about 30 percent of group sales, and Martin said there was no sign of a slowdown there.
The Manchester-based company underlined its committment to growth in the U.S. on Wednesday by announcing the acquisition of a small leather chenmical manufaturer from Henkel Corp for $7.5 million.  
With low gearing, which stood at just seven percent at the end of March, Martin said BTP could comfortably make an acquisition of up to 100 milllion stg.
"The general strategy is to add on to existing businesses. We are not going to leap into the dark in other arease," said Martin, who said any acquisitions must meet strict financial criteria. "They have got to fit and be earnings enhancing."
London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
British life assurance group Scottish Amicable on Thursday announced plans to shed its 170-year old mutual status in preparation for a 1.0 billion pounds ($1.68 billion) flotation on the London stock market in three to five years' time.
The group, based in Stirling, Scotland, said it is to use capital raised by the two-stage proposals to take advantage of opportunities for growth and increase its share of the life and pensions market.
Policyholders are to receive an initial special bonus totalling 75 million pounds after demutualising on May 1 this year, based on the length of time policies have been held.
At the top end of the scale, an individual with a 25-year policy maturing this April will receive 1,503 pounds.
On flotation another, larger payout - expected to amount to at least 200 million pounds but possibly "substantially higher" - will be made.
The move to seek a flotation is the second by a British life group, following plans announced last year by Norwich Union.
Scottish Amicable had been rumoured to be a takeover candidate but chairman Sandy Stewart said the group intended to hold on to its independence.
"Our plans do not include being gobbled up by anybody," Stewart told a news briefing.
Industry analysts said today's move would make any takeover "The policyholders are likely to get more by hanging on in there and having an interest in the future than a straight sale now," said one.
Scottish amicable said it believed the market was entering a growth phase and that it was well positioned to take advantage of an upturn but needed capital and a more flexible structure to take advantage of the opportunities.
The period before flotation is intended to allow it to develop the business and necessary profit-focused corporate culture.
Managing Director Roy Nicolson said that there remained value to be realised in the group and that an immediate flotation would have failed to reflect the true value of the business and sold policyholders short.
Industry analysts described the proposals as a good compromise between raising some capital in the near term but not selling out too cheap.
Under the proposals, the business, staff and operations of the group are to be transferred to a new company, Scottish Amicable Life, a 100 percent owned subsidiary of the newly formed Scottish Amicable Holdings.
Nicolson, is to become group chief executive of a new holding company Scottish Amicable Holdings. Paul Bradshaw, deputy managing director, will become chief executive of Scottish Amicable Life.
The first stage of the group's plans involves a deal with reinsurance giant Swiss Re and its affiliate Securitas Capital to provide an injection of cash of 395 million poounds.
Scottish Amicable's existing with-profit fund will receive an immediate cash contribution of 350 million pounds while Securitas Capital will invest up to 45 million pounds in return for approximately 20 percent of a new business fund being set up to transact all new business leading up to flotation.
The plans have to be approved by three-quarters of policyholders who vote and a special general meeting is expected to be held in March.
($1=.5958 Pound)
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key index closed at new highs for the third consecutive session on Thursday, soaring into record territory and ending above the 6,100 point level.
The TSE 300 Composite Index climbed 38.32 points to end at 6103.66, after earlier reaching a new intra-day high of 6112.32.
Toronto, which set records for the third time this year, was boosted by stronger gold stocks. Portfolio consultant Ron Meisels said investors were looking to snap up cheap gold issues which had recently weakened on plunging bullion prices.
Bullion prices have weakened since Monday on news that the Dutch central bank had sold 300 tonnes of gold reserves.
"Despite the decline in the price of gold, gold stocks have done reasonably well," Meisels said. "People could have gone bargain-hunting today."
Trading was heavy at 121.9 million shares worth C$2.09 billion ($1.56 billion).
Almost all of Toronto's 14 sub-indices rose except for four -- conglomerates, pipelines, forestry products and real estate. Golds led the strong side, followed by oils, banks and consumer products.
Advancing stocks outpaced declines 591 to 400 with 278 issues unchanged.
Among the active issues, Bre-X Minerals Ltd. jumped 0.25 to 24.70 on 2.3 million shares, as some investors laid bets on whether the junior miner would merge with Placer Dome Inc. Placer recently offered to partner with Bre-X to develop the huge Busang gold deposit in Indonesia. Barrick Gold Corp. is also bidding to develop the site with Bre-X.
However Bre-X's fate is in the hands of the Indonesian government, which has the final say on any deal. Placer shares soared 0.85 to 28.95 while Barrick jumped 0.75 to 35.80.
Wascana Energy Inc. topped Toronto's most actives, gaining 0.40 to 16.10 on 3.4 million shares.
Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc. fell 2.35 to 113.55 after J.P. Morgan Securities cut its rating on Potash to market perform from buy.
Unilever subsidiary Blohorn will overhaul palmoil plantations and nine factories recently bought from Ivory Coast, a senior Blohorn official said.
"The strategic issue for us was to win vertical control of raw supplies as there was a danger of others exporting for overseas revenue," group vice-president Martin Rushworth told Reuters in an interview.
The supplies from the plantations and factories, in which Blohorn now holds a 34 percent stake, total 190,000 tonnes of annual oil production, he added.
Ageing plantations on 36,000 hectares would be overhauled as some trees were nearing the end of their 28-year productive life and needed replacing at a rate of 4-6 percent a year.
"In some plantations trees have an average age of 22 years so there will have to be extensive replanting," Rushworth said.
Nine crop processing factories would also be refurbished over two years.
Palmoil prices (CIF Europe) averaged around $380 a tonne in 1993, $680 in 1994, $650 in 1995 and $540 in 1996, he said.
"Export prices are now around $560 a tonne but we think they will stabilise at around $540 a tonne in 1997," said Rushworth.
Blohorn's tender for leading stakes in the two state-owned Palmindustrie blocks were accepted by Ivory Coast and signed on November 28 and December 27.
Blohorn linked up with competitor SIFCA to complete the purchase along with the Belgian firm SOCFIN SA for its technical expertise in plantation management.
"Output will be used for domestic production of cooking oil and soaps with only consumer goods and refined oil for export," he said. Sites would sell palmoil to Blohorn at going-rate transfer prices and operate largely as separate entities.
Other Palmindustrie capacity of 40,000 tonnes was taken by the Belgian firm SIPEF with Ivorian SAFIPAR taking the remaining 35,000 tonnes.
Blohorn, whose main oil-based domestic brands are Dinor cooking oil and Savon de Marseille, bought three sites sold as two large blocks. Shareholders paid a total 64.5 billion CFA and took on 24 billion CFA in staggered government debt.
Palmoil processors are also seen as potential cocoa grinders but Rushworth said Blohorn would only do so from June to August to help with overheads during slack periods.
Ivory Coast's donor-sponsored privatisation programme saw 26 companies sold between 1991 and 1995 and another 10 in 1996.
Blohorn's main 34 percent shareholding is followed by Ivory Coast (30 percent), SIFCA (17 percent), village farmers (11 percent), SOCFIN (5 percent) and employees (3 percent).
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Colombian stocks have shaken off three years of stagnation to stage a meteoric rise in 1997, but bourse chiefs warn deep-rooted structural problems cloud the outlook for one of the world's best-performing markets so far this year.
The country's two major indices, Bogota's IBB and Medellin's IBOMED, have gained more than 22 percent in the 10 sessions of the year to Thursday, Jan. 16, grabbing international attention and sending investors reeling with surprise.  
Brokers are convinced that bigger gains are still to come in the course of the year and that Colombian stocks continue to be undervalued by as much as 25 percent.
But the chairmen of the Bogota and Medellin exchanges believe the traditional "marriage" between industrialists and bankers will hamper the transformation of Colombia's markets into sophisticated, modern bourses.
"Market performance has been pretty good in the year so far and we've seen gains that nobody really dared foresee," said Luis Fernando Uribe, head of the Medellin exchange.  
Bogota's IBB has gained about 22.5 percent -- despite small falls on profit-taking Wednesday and Thursday after 18 days straight gains.  It rose just 11.8 percent in peso terms in 1996 -- a real-term loss when set against 21.63 percent inflation.
Medellin's IBOMED index has leapt more than 23 percent after losing 3.68 percent in nominal terms in 1996.
Trading volume is extremely thin, however.  Volume on all three of the country's exchanges, including Cali's tiny Bolsa de Occidente, totalled just $2.3 billon in 1996.  
Market perception that Colombian shares are well below book price, a fall in deposit rates from above 30 percent for most of 1996 to about 27 percent, and optimism that the economy is about to rebound from the sharp slowdown last year are underpinning the rally.  And a new tax on fixed income papers has also put a premium on equities, many brokers say.
"Once the market caught fire everybody piled in. There was not too much differentiation between shares, which shows these are still somewhat immature markets," said market analyst Stephen Edkins.  
"We're bullish about the year and think shares will rise between about 40 percent and 45 percent overall," he added. Inflation is forecast to hit 18 percent this year, which would mean real-term yields of up to 27 percent.
Edkins expected to see downward corrections of between five percent and 10 percent in the coming weeks, with new gains from the start of the second quarter as companies turn in 1996 year-end results, followed by first quarter results.
Domestic political factors, including the country's simmering guerrilla war, which some military experts predict will intensify in 1997, seem unlikely to cause concern.  
"We've got this crazy equilibrium where there's quite a solid macroeconomic management and then this element of chaos," said Edkins.  But amid the optimism, bourse chiefs Caballero and Uribe sounded a warning.
"The main underlying problem is that there are a lack of shares.  That's a structural problem and cannot be resolved overnight," said Caballero.
"There are favorable terms for companies to raise capital in the stock market but the traditional marriage between industry and the financial sector is not going to be easy to break up," said Uribe.
Colombian entrepreneurs still prefer to contract debt with the banks rather than risk losing overall control of their businesses by issuing shares.
Of all the country's major conglomerates only the Sindicato Antioqueno has more than one of its companies quoted on the stock market -- but less than one-third of the shares are in free float, outside the direct control of the companies themselves.
((--Bogota newsroom, 571 610 7944))
Synopsys Inc. said Thursday it agreed to buy Epic Design Technology Inc. for about $428.1 million in stock to gain expertise in a hot niche of the semiconductor design business.
Synopsys, which writes software to help engineers design computer chips, said it will issue 0.7485 of its shares for each of Epic's 13.7 million shares outstanding. Based on Synopsys's closing stock price of $41.75 on Wednesday, Synopsys would pay about $31.25 for each Epic share.
Shares of Epic, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., fell 87.5 cents to $31 in late Nasdaq trading. Shares of Synopsys, based in Mountain View, Calif., were unchanged at $41.75, also on Nasdaq.
Synopsys specialises in software used in designing the overall framework of a microchip. Epic specialises in software for designing individual microscopic circuits, millions of which make up the microchip.
The acquisition gives Synopsys an edge as the so-called design automation industry scrambles to come up with ways to help engineers design ever smaller chips, analysts said.
"We believe the Epic acquisition is a good strategic move," said Raj Seth, analyst at Cowen &amp; Co. in Boston. "Synopsys picks up technologies that are increasingly critical to developing" the tiny "deep submicron" circuits.
Synopsys' customers, which include some of the world's biggest chip makers, have been asking for a suite of design software that would let engineers design a chip's framework as well as its circuits, said Aart de Geus, Synopsys chief executive.
Epic will become a unit of Synopsys, the companies said. Sang Wang, Epic chairman and CEO, will head the unit.
Synopsys will take an undetermined charge for the acquisition in the quarter the transaction is done, "ideally March," said Brooke Seawell, Synopsys chief financial officer. Because of little overlapping products, there should be no Epic job cuts, Seawell said.
Microsoft Corp. is expected to report modest earnings growth for the latest quarter Friday despite tough comparisons with the year-earlier period and a sales slowdown ahead of an upgrade of a popular software package.
Industry analysts surveyed by First Call on average expect Microsoft to report earnings of 51 cents a share for its second quarter ended on Dec. 31, up about 16 percent from the 44 cents a share reported a year earlier. Sales are expected to rise about 14 percent to more than $2.5 billion.
Analysts consider that a strong performance against tough comparisons with the year-earlier period, the first full quarter of availability for the Windows 95 operating system.
In the 1995 second quarter sales soared 54 percent and net income jumped 48 percent.
"These guys are just incredibly strong now," said Rob Owens of Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Ore. "They'll probably meet or beat (Wall) Street's estimate again."
Investors will have all weekend to analyse the results, which are due to be released after the close of trading Friday.
Microsoft executives originally had scheduled the release for Thursday but decided to delay the report until a day after an event publicising the launch of Office 97, its best-selling package of business software.
Analysts estimated that revenues of Office and its component applications account for up to 30 percent of Microsoft's total, but the figure will be lower for the quarter just ended because of the impending upgrade.
For much of the quarter Microsoft offered Office 95 buyers coupons good for a free upgrade, which will result in some revenues being deferred into future reporting periods.
But strong growth in personal computer sales and in acceptance of Microsoft's high-end Windows NT operating system continue to buoy the company's profits.
"The ongoing strength of the NT cycle is what's carrying the day," said Chris Galvin of Hambrecht &amp; Quist. "Countervailing that is the tough comparison last year with the Windows 95 release, so it's a mixed scenario."
Owen said that while sales of PCs to consumers were sluggish in the latest quarter, declining prices and increased processing power had sparked a new wave of corporate buying.
He said 30 percent or fewer of corporate desktops have made the transition to the Windows 95 or Windows NT systems.
"That's a tremendous opportunity for Microsoft," he said.
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., the largest U.S. hospital company, Thursday agreed to buy pharmacy benefits management firm Value Health Inc. for about $1.3 billion in stock.
The deal caused concern on Wall Street, which sold off Columbia shares. Its stock fell $1 to $39.25 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Some analysts said the acquisition signalled that Columbia intended to set itself up as a competitor to health insurers and HMOs, many of which are its customers, in a strategy that could have huge repercussions in the healthcare business.
"If anybody was unclear about Columbia's intentions before today, they certainly shouldn't be anymore," said Montgomery Securities healthcare industry analyst Ken Laudan.
Other analysts viewed the Value Health deal as essentially defensive, gaining for Columbia some of the same buying power its biggest customers enjoy and sometimes use against it.
"There will be a point where Columbia will compete with HMOs and payors," said an analyst who asked not to be identified.
When that day comes, Columbia wants to be sure it can offer consumers a package of healthcare services as integrated and affordable as those of its rivals, he suggested.
"Value Health fits well into Columbia's integrated delivery system and increases our ability to be a full service provider of healthcare services for our patients and customers," Columbia Chairman Richard Scott said in a statement.
For Avon, Conn.-based Value Health, which had 1995 revenues of nearly $1.9 billion, the proposed Columbia deal ends a long process of shopping for suitors. "Value Health has been on the block for a while," said ABN-AMRO Chicago Corp. healthcare industry analyst Peter Costa.
Value Health was rumoured in late 1994 to have received a buyout offer from Pfizer Inc. of as much as $60 per share, analysts said. At the time, drug manufacturers were busily acquiring pharmaceutical benefits managers, with the notion that they could sell more drugs through them.
Since then, Value Health's stock price has dropped from a trading range in the high $50s to $21.875, up $1.625, Thursday. On a per-share basis, the Columbia stock transaction proposal is worth about $23.35 per share, based on Wednesday's closing price of Columbia, analysts said.
"I don't think there's going to be a competing bid because everyone has had a chance to see Value Health by now," said Dain Bosworth healthcare industry analyst Chris Sergeant.
In the rapidly changing healthcare business, Nashville, Tenn.-based Columbia, with 1996 revenues estimated to total nearly $20 billion, is in a class by itself.
It operates 344 hospitals, 135 surgery centres, more than 550 home health locations and a pharmacy benefits management operation of its own. No other hospital company approaches its size and its decisions have far-reaching impact on drugs, medical devices and virtually every other healthcare market.
Last March, Columbia said it intended to buy for $299.5 million most of Cleveland-based Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Ohio, a health insurer that covers 1.5 million people.
With Columbia's Blue Cross deal awaiting Ohio regulatory clearance, the Value Health deal heightens fears that Columbia sees its future extending beyond hospitals, analysts said.
At the same time, Robinson Humphrey analyst John Runningen said the Value Health deal did not pose a direct challenge to insurers and HMOs. "Value Health is not an HMO. It's a company that sells services to HMOs ... (Columbia) is stopping short of competing with HMOs," Runningen said.
Columbia did not immediately return telephone calls.
Intuit Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Checkfree Corp. said Thursday they jointly developed a software standard to make it easier to bank online.
The companies said their Open Financial Exchange -- a set of technical specifications -- will make it easier for depositors' personal computers to communicate with bank computers. That makes it easier to pay bills, transfer money between accounts and get balances via the Internet.
About 50 banks are expected to announce by fall that they will adopt the standard, said Intuit Executive Vice President Bill Harris. By then, each of the three companies also will unveil new lines of online banking products based on the standard.
Intuit and Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft, fierce competitors since a merger agreement between them fell apart almost two years ago, said that by working together they will accelerate the adoption of online banking.
"In all of the meetings each of us have had, every one of the financial institutions asked us to bring this together," said Lewis Levin, head of Microsoft's desktop finance unit.
The alliance gets rid of the "mishmash" of standards Intuit, Microsoft and Checkfree were trying to push on banks, said Karen Epper, online banking analyst at market researcher Forrester Research.
Menlo Park, Calif.-based Intuit and Microsoft are the two largest vendors of personal financial software and checkbook programmes. Checkfree lets customers send checks and pay bills through their personal computers.
The companies said they will work with credit card issuer Visa to link Open Financial Exchange to Visa's bill payment network.
Other companies supporting Open Financial Exchange including banking software firm Edify Corp.
Stock in Microsoft, which also launched its Office 97 business software package Thursday, rose $1.125 to $85.75 in afternoon trading on the Nasdaq market. Checkfree climbed 62.5 cents to $15.375, while Intuit was unchanged at $34.625, also on Nasdaq.
Fast running out of options, federal credit unions are hoping the Supreme Court will decide Friday to wade into the midst of their six-year legal battle with the banking industry.
The Supreme Court's nine justices are expected to decide whether or not to hear the credit union case, lawyers involved in the case said.
The banks, who filed suit to challenge a 1982 policy adopted by the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) relaxing previous membership limits, have urged the court not to take the case.
Lower courts have agreed with banks that membership should be sharply limited at thousands of credit unions, cooperative non-profits that offer bank-like services.
If the court decides not to hear the case, membership limits could force many credit unions to be dissolved or broken up into smaller, less-efficient institutions, according to Tim Pryor, federal regulatory counsel to the National Association of Federal Credit Unions.
"It would be kind of like a court-ordered savings and loan crisis," Pryor said. "This case is extremely important to the safety and soundness of the industry."
If at least four justices favour taking the case, the credit unions would have a final chance to erase the limits.
Oral arguments could be scheduled for later this term, with a decision likely by the summer.
"This is about settled law," said Michael Crotty, counsel for the American Bankers Association. If credit unions want to change the membership limits, they should go to Congress and ask for legislation, he said.
"The policy of who gets to be a member of a credit union is not a judicial issue but a legislative one," added Crotty.
Until 1982, credit unions were limited to having members with a single common bond, people who worked for the same employer or lived in the same neighbourhood. But that year, the NCUA began allowing credit unions to include members from multiple, distinct groups.
That angered banks, which contended that some of the larger tax-exempt credit unions posed unfair competition. In 1990, the banks sued a North Carolina credit union that had grown to encompass more than a hundred groups.
The case wound its way through the system, reaching the federal appeals court for the District of Columbia last year. The court ruled the NCUA had exceeded its authority and that members of each credit union must share a single common bond.
A lower court then ordered credit unions to stop accepting members from more than one group, although the order was partially suspended until the Supreme Court makes a decision or declines to hear the case.
The case, First National Bank and Trust Co. v NCUA et al, is on a list of cases the Supreme Court justices are scheduled to discuss Friday.
It is possible that the justices might not get to the case Friday, and then it would likely be discussed at a conference next month, lawyers said.
Microsoft Corp is expected to report on Friday that it had modest earnings growth in the second quarter, despite tough comparisons with the year-earlier period and a sales slowdown ahead of an upgrade to its top-selling software bundle.
Industry analysts surveyed by First Call on average expect Microsoft to report earnings of $0.51 a share for its second quarter ended December 31, up about 16 percent from the $0.44 a share reported a year earlier. Revenues are expected to rise about 14 percent to more than $2.5 billion.  
Analysts consider that a strong performance against tough comparisons with the year-earlier period, the first full quarter of availability for the Windows 95 operating system.
In last year's second quarter revenues soared 54 percent and net income was up 48 percent.
"These guys are just incredibly strong now," said Rob Owens of Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Ore. "They'll probably meet or beat the Street's estimate again."
Investors will have all weekend to analyze the results, which are due to be released after the close of trading Friday.  
Microsoft executives originally had scheduled the release for Thursday but decided to delay the report until a day after an event publicizing the launch of Office 97, its best-selling suite of business software.
Analysts estimate that revenues of Office and its component applications account for 20 to 30 percent of Microsoft's total, but the figure will be lower for the quarter just ended because of the impending upgrade.  
For much of the quarter Microsoft offered Office 95 buyers coupons good for a free upgrade, which will result in some revenues being deferred into future reporting periods.
But strong growth in personal computer sales and in acceptance of Microsoft's high-end Windows NT operating system continue to buoy the company's profits.
"The ongoing strength of the NT cycle is what's carrying the day," said Chris Galvin of Hambrecht &amp; Quist. "Countervailing that is the tough comparison last year with the Windows 95 release, so it's a mixed scenario."
Owen said that while sales of PCs to consumers were sluggish in the quarter that just ended, declining prices and increasing availability of 32-bit applications are sparking a new wave of corporate buying.
He said 30 percent or fewer of corporate desktops have made the transition to the Windows 95 or Windows NT systems.
"That's a tremendous opportunity for Microsoft," he said.
((-- Reuters Seattle bureau 206-386-4848))
A U.S. appeals court in St. Louis is set to hear arguments Friday on whether to reactivate or throw out a major Federal Communications Commission order opening the $100 billion local phone market to competition.
Lawyers and analysts predict the FCC and its long-distance phone company allies will lose the latest battle to GTE Corp., the Baby Bells, other local carriers and state regulators who want to overturn the order. It spells out how new entrants to the local phone business can link to Bell local networks.
The appeals court suspended the FCC order in October, pending Friday's case. "The FCC faces a tough uphill battle," said attorney Alfred Mamlet of Steptoe &amp; Johnson. "This case is headed for the Supreme Court."
As a result, the FCC's "interconnection" order is likely to hang in legal limbo for at least a year while it is fought over in court -- a prospect analysts expect will cloud the phone industry's outlook and weigh on phone company stocks.
"It adds to the uncertainty out there," said analyst Scott Cleland of Schwab Washington Research Group.
The order was meant to implement the 1996 communications law, which allowed local and long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators and others into each other's business.
The appeals court, in suspending the order, sided with the local carriers and state regulators who charged that the FCC overstepped its power by issuing national rules on pricing and other matters instead of leaving those issues to the states.
The court wrote that opponents "have a better than even chance of convincing the court the the FCC's pricing rules conflict with the plain meaning" of the 1996 law.
With the order expected to remain on ice for a while, lawyers and analysts said state regulators and federal judges will have the chief job of prying open local phone monopolies to long-distance companies such as AT&amp;T Corp. and others.
FCC Chairman Reed Hundt warned that piecemeal deregulation -- with judges around the nation ultimately deciding terms for opening local phone markets -- would have a "very negative impact" on industry efforts to raise capital.
FCC officials have said the case will not be resolved before the high court until spring 1998, at the earliest.
The order requires the Bells and other local carriers to lease their phone lines to new competitors at discounts of up to 25 percent.
The FCC also ordered local carriers to "unbundle" their local networks into pieces -- such as call-switching devices and operator and directory assistance -- so new competitors can lease components to complete their own networks.
The "unbundled elements" were to be priced at competitive levels based on the cost of new and more-efficient facilities.
In the meantime, state regulators have been issuing decisions on terms for opening the local markets. FCC Chairman Hundt said that despite the suspension of his agency's order, 29 of 31 states so far have adopted the FCC pricing policies.
But even those decisions are being challenged. GTE Corp. in particular, as well as AT&amp;T, have appealed some of those rulings to federal courts around the country.
Henry Geller, a former FCC general counsel, blamed the legal morass on Congress, saying lawmakers "botched" the job of writing the 1996 law. "The whole idea was that the courts weren't going to be determining this," he said.
Sun Microsystems Inc. said Wednesday its profits rose 41 percent in the latest quarter and its revenues jumped to record levels, driven by sales of the company's server computer and power desktop systems.
Sun said its net income for the fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 29 rose to $178.3 million from $126 million in second quarter a year ago. Earnings per share rose to 46 cents from 32 cents.
Revenues rose nearly 19 percent to $2.08 billion.
The per share earnings beat Wall Street expectations of 42 cents, according to First Call, which tracks analysts' earnings estimates.
"The current fiscal year continues to yield strong financial results," Sun Microsystems Chief Financial Officer Michael Lehman said in a statement. "Sun is winning big in corporate intranets, the Internet, and the extranet."
So-called intranets are in-house networks modeled on the Internet, while extranets, which are secure networks outside a company, such as a private network.
Lehman said the company's investments in research and development and sales and support infrastructure were paying off as it moved to broaden its global presence.
The company said gross profit margins rose to 50.4 percent, up more than 5 percentage points from the comparable period the previous year.
Sun Microsystems Chief Executive Scott McNealy told analysts in a conference call that it was difficult to say whether the strong gross margins were sustainable.
Sun's order backlog rose to $470 million from $407 million in its first quarter, but it was still much less than the $522 million backlog at the end of its 1996 fiscal year last June.
McNealy said the company planned to announce new high-end computers, codenamed Starfire, next week as it seeks to offer computers that can be used for the most intensive corporate computing tasks, like databases and network management.
Lehman said initial market data showed Sun appeared to be taking market share from its traditional rivals, and he said Sun will continue to make further significant price cuts.
The executives said Sun was deriving increasing amounts of revenues from storage products, professional services and licensing of products based on the Java programming language, which is used to develop Internet applications.
British life assurer Scottish Amicable said on Thursday it planned to shed its 170-year-old mutual status in favour of a stock market flotation aimed at taking advantage of opportunities for profit growth.
The Stirling-based group outlined plans to float on the London Stock Exchange in three to five years' time and said it would pay policy-holders an initial special bonus of 75 million pounds ($125 million) after demutualising on May 1.
Scottish Amicable said pay-outs would be based on the length of time policies had been held by members.
The fist payment would be followed by benefits worth more than 200 million pounds as a result of flotation, which will give the group access to long-term capital, it added.
The group said it expected to have a market capitalisation of around 1.0 billion pounds on flotation.
Scottish Amicable said significant opportunities existed for profitable growth in its businesses. But it said in a statement that to take full advantage "requires access to external capital in both the short and long term."
There has been intense speculation that Scottish Amicable, founded in 1826, would be the subject of a takeover bid but chairman Sandy Stewart said the group intended to hold on to its independence.
"Our plans do not include being gobbled up by anybody," he told a news briefing.
The group said the process would be in two stages. Under the plan, the business, staff and operations of the group would be transferred to a new company, Scottish Amicable Life, a 100 percent subsidiary of newly formed Scottish Amicable Holdings.
The first stage involves a deal with reinsurance giant Swiss Re and its affiliate Securitas Capital "to provide substantial financial backing initially totalling 395 million pounds".
Under this agreement Scottish Amicable's existing with-profit fund will receive an immediate cash contribution of 350 million pounds "from the reinsurance by Swiss Re of certain categories of existing policy".
Securitas Capital has committed to invest up to 45 million pounds in return for approximately 20 percent of a new business fund being set up to transact all new business from the date on which the scheme becomes effective.
Swiss Re has also agreed to provide further reinsurance "expected to reach a level of 150 million pounds over the next five years in respect of future new business".
Scottish Amicable said Roy Nicolson, currently managing director of the group, would become group chief executive of Scottish Amicable Holdings, while Paul Bradshaw, deputy managing director, will become chief executive of Scottish Amicable Life.
Policyholders must first approve the plans at a special general meeting expected to be held in March. The group said detailed discussions had already been held with Britain's Department of Trade and Industry. ($1=.5958 Pound)
The drive to cut costs and offset falling margins in insurance broking continued apace on Thursday as Lowndes Lambert Group Holdings Plc and Fenchurch Plc confirmed that they are to merge.
The two London-based brokers announced last week they were in talks and said the complementary nature of their businesses would offer significant benefits to clients, employees and shareholders.
The merger comes against a background of industry over-capacity and intense competition which has put increasing pressure on margins and led to an acceleration in consolidation as companies search for economies of scale.
The companies said they believed the deal would create a stronger, more broadly based and competitive group better positioned to win new business and revenues.
Another attraction of the deal is the scope it offers for cutting costs through the merger of head offices, the companies' branch networks and the rationalisation of support and administrative functions.
Such moves will produce cost saving of at least five million pounds in the 12 months to March 1998 and together with the improved prospects for revenue growth will significantly enhance earnings and dividend propects, the company said.
Fenchurch shareholders are to be offered 628 shares in the new company, to be called Lambert Fenchurch Group, for every 1,000 shares they hold, valuing Fenchurch at around 27.6 million pounds ($46.18 million).
Last year's results for the two groups highlight the difficulties faced in the industry with Lowndes' reporting a nine percent fall in pre-tax profits to 13.9 million pounds.
Fenchurch's profits dropped 27 percent to 5.9 million pounds, prompting it to more than halve its final dividend.
The deal comes just weeks after Lloyd Thompson Group Plc and JIB Group Plc announced they are to merge in a deal worth just under 300 million pounds.
The companies believe today's move will reinforce operations in areas where both are strong such as the the UK retail, marine cargo, international non-marine and reinsurance markets.
Lowndes position in marine, fine art and entertainment will also be complimented by Fenchurch's position in North American non-marine and aviation and the broad spread of operations would offer improved growth potential, they said.
Future growth is to be pursued through a combination of organic growth and acquisition.
Lowndes chief executive David Margrett is to become chief executive of the new group with Lowndes chairman Sir Robert Clark becomning non-executive chairman.
The costs of the merger are expected to amount to around 11 million pounds.
($1=.5976 Pound)
Apple Computer Inc. Wednesday reported a $120 million loss in its fiscal first quarter and warned investors it did not expect to report a profit until September.
The troubled computer maker, based in Cupertino, Calif., also said it expected revenue for the current fiscal year, which ends next September, to drop about 13 percent to $8 billion to $8.5 billion because of weak consumer sales.
Apple's loss, which equaled 96 cents a share, compared with a loss of $69 million, or 56 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Sales for the quarter ended Dec. 27 fell to $2.13 billion from $3.15 billion.
Apple attributed the latest quarterly loss to slow sales of consumer-oriented Performa desktop computers during the crucial Christmas quarter, which analysts said was partly due to concerns about Apple's future.
"Apple's been under a black cloud, and part of it has been Apple's doing," said Lou Mazzucchelli, analyst at brokerage Gerard Klauer Mattison in New York. "It's hard for a consumer to get the gumption to buy a Performa when everyone's asking, 'Is Apple dead yet?'"
Apple officials said the company will unveil in coming weeks its second restructuring program in two years, aimed at cutting operating costs by $400 million.
The plan could include more job cuts, Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said. Apple wants to reduce its break-even point to $8 billion in annual revenues to enable it to return to profitability by the end of September.
Previously, Apple had promised to return to sustainable profits by March. But industry analysts had started to question that goal after Apple disclosed less than two weeks ago that sales of its Performa line were running behind plan.
Apple, which posted a record loss last year of $816 million, has been struggling to return to profitability in the face of increased competition from computers using Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system and Intel Corp.'s computer chips.
Last February, Apple replaced Chief Executive Michael Spindler with National Semiconductor Corp. boss Gilbert Amelio and then, in December, announced a reunion with former co-founder Steven Jobs when it agreed to acquire Job's Next Software Inc. for $400 million.
Meanwhile, debt rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's lowered Apple's corporate credit and debt rating another notch Wednesday, putting the company's debt further into junk bond status.
The rating agency said the downgrade reflected the challenges facing Apple, including reducing costs and restoring revenue growth, executing a cohesive operating system upgrade upon completion of the Next acquisition, and Apple's diminished liquidity and financial resources.
"Despite its position among the top five worldwide personal computer manufacturers ... Apple has been struggling with extremely competitive industry conditions, slipping market share, and operating losses," the rating agency said.
Despite the slowdown in Performa sales, Anderson said Apple's financial position remained strong.
"While we were very disappointed by the Performa sales results and the associated loss, our financial position remains sound," he said. "We exited the quarter with $1.8 billion in cash."
Anderson said there were some bright spots in its results. European shipments rose 50 percent in the first quarter from the fourth quarter. Sales to educational organizations also were above the company's goals, Anderson said.
Still, Performa sales, which account for about a third of Apple's revenues, will be weak for the rest of the year. "We had a major problem in this one product area," he said.
Analysts said the loss, which Apple forecast two weeks ago, represented a setback for Amelio. He had set a goal of stanching Apple's losses in 1996 and getting revenue growing again by 1998.
News of the latest loss can drive even more consumers to avoid buying Apple products, analysts said.
"The question is, can Apple wait until 1998 to get its growth engine going again?" said Walter Winnitzki, analyst at broker PaineWebber Inc. in New York.
Apple reported its results after the market closed. Apple closed at $17.25 a share, down 62.5 cents, on Nasdaq.
Lotus Development Corp. Chief Executive Officer Michael Zisman said Wednesday the company will focus its attention on what could become a $1 billion market for collaborative Internet software by 1999.
Lotus, acquired by International Business Machines Corp. last year in a deal valued at more than $3 billion, should not try to be all things to all people, he said, but to concentrate its core business of software for groups, or so-called groupware.
"Collaboration is clearly our sweet spot," he said in a keynote address at a three-day Internet &amp; Electronic Commerce conference here organised by the Gartner Group.
A new version of the company's popular Lotus Notes software due out in the fourth quarter, version 4.5, will offer Notes server software to host collaboration over the Internet. Servers are computers that manage the flow of data in a network.
This latter feature is provided by new Lotus technology dubbed Domino, which is currently being tested.
Zisman said too much attention was now devoted to browsers, software that lets users help navigate the Internet.
"The browser market is being eclipsed by the server market today as we speak," he said, noting browsers will most likely be offered as part of the operating system, as with Windows.
"The action, I believe, is going to be in the server market," he said, adding that server software for collaboration through Internet sites alone is projected to be a $1 billion market by the end of the decade.
The market for servers at the hub of Web sites will likely segment into at least three distinct classes -- content, collaboration and commerce -- and larger organisations will likely mix "best of breed" applications from different suppliers, he said.
Lotus Development is concentrating helping people work together electronically, he said, because "content without collaboration is useless ... the value is not in the content."
He noted as an example Web sites which not only carried information, but enabled people to communicate interactively with the Web site or other individuals using the Internet.
"The borders are blurry. I don't believe that we will see pure content sites and I don't believe that we will see pure commerce sites," he said. "We will obtain and retain customers if we engage them."
More Japanese finance firms braced for the bitter pill of court-protected liquidation on Thursday, but analysts said Japan's banking sector still faces a long road to recovery from its bad loan headaches.
The announcements were no surprise and more were considered likely as the banking sector struggles to get rid of troubled finance firms and regain its credibility.
The collapses highlighted, however, the growing worries that unexpected bad news may lie ahead and that Japan's slumping stock market could set back the recuperation further.
The latest victims were All Corp, with debts on borrowings worth 274.5 billion yen ($2.36 billion), Sanwa Tatemono Sogo Finance Co with debts of 66.4 billion yen ($572 million) and CS Sogo Service with debts of 71.3 billion yen ($614 million).
Ubumi Sagara, president of Tokyo-based non-bank All Corp, told reporters the firm would hold a shareholders' meeting by the end of March to seek approval for a liquidation filing.
The firm's major creditor banks -- Tokai Bank Ltd, Sakura Bank Ltd and Chuo Trust Banking &amp; Co Ltd -- were accepting its special liquidation plan, he said.
All Corp's cumulative debt exceeded its assets by 195.4 billion yen ($1.68 billion) as of September 1996 and it would be hard to improve its business despite recent restructuring efforts, he said.
"All Corp has been well-known as a troubled non-bank," said Yoshinobu Yamada, a financial analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan.
"Main creditor banks have already set aside loan loss provisions to prepare for the failure and the liquidation will have no major impact on earnings of those banks," he said.
Japan had at least five non-bank failures in 1996, including the collapse of Nichiei Finance Co, which filed for liquidation with debt liabilities of around one trillion yen ($8.6 billion). By one measure, this made Nichiei the largest such insolvency case in Japan in the postwar period.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre, said banks in general have been well-prepared for possible failures of non-bank companies in recent years.
Banks are major lenders to non-bank institutions, which do not take deposits and largely depend on bank loans as sources of funds for their own lending.
"All Corp is not the end of the problem loan mess at credit firms and people know that. Rather, worries have grown that banks may have to write off bigger problem loans to general contractors than earlier expected," Sasajima said.
A new restructuring programme unveiled late last year by Tobishima Corp, a contractor and engineering company, fuelled concerns that banks would face new burdens as ailing firms seek added support in attempting to reshape themselves, he said.
The failures at Sanwa Tatemono Sogo Finance and CS Sogo Service were not surprising, either, as the two firms were subsidiaries of failed parent companies, banking sources said.
Banking sources said that while the impact of All Corp's liquidation would be limited, they were much more concerned about jitters in the Tokyo stock market. The closely watched Nikkei average lost about 11 percent of its value last week.
Declining stock prices whittle away unrealised profits from banks' shareholdings, reducing the amount of money available to write off problem loans and thus protracting the mess in the banking industry, they said. ($1=116 yen)
Sun Microsystems Inc said on Wednesday its profits rose 41 percent in the latest quarter and its revenues jumped to record levels, driven by sales of the company's server computer and power desktop systems.
Sun said its net income for the fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 29 rose to $178.3 million from $126 million in second quarter a year ago. Earnings per share rose to 46 cents from 32 cents.
Revenues rose nearly 19 percent to $2.08 billion.
The per share earnings beat Wall Street expectations of 42 cents, according to First Call, which tracks analysts' earnings estimates.
"The current fiscal year continues to yield strong financial results," Sun Microsystems Chief Financial Officer Michael Lehman said in a statement. "Sun is winning big in corporate intranets, the Internet, and the extranet."
So-called intranets are in-house networks modelled on the Internet, while extranets, which are secure networks outside a company, such as a private network.
Lehman said the company's investments in research and development and sales and support infrastructure were paying off as it moved to broaden its global presence.
The company said gross profit margins rose to 50.4 percent, up more than 5 percentage points from the comparable period the previous year.
Sun Microsystems Chief Executive Scott McNealy told analysts in a conference call that it was difficult to say whether the strong gross margins were sustainable.
Sun's order backlog rose to $470 million from $407 million in its first quarter, but it was still much less than the $522 million backlog at the end of its 1996 fiscal year last June.
McNealy said the company planned to announce new high-end computers, codenamed Starfire, next week as it seeks to offer computers that can be used for the most intensive corporate computing tasks, like databases and network management.
Lehman said initial market data showed Sun appeared to be taking market share from its traditional rivals, and he said Sun will continue to make further significant price cuts.
The executives said Sun was deriving increasing amounts of revenues from storage products, professional services and licensing of products based on the Java programming language, which is used to develop Internet applications.
Equity Residential Properties Trust, a real estate investment trust led by Chicago real estate investor Sam Zell, agreed Friday to buy Wellsford Residential Property Trust( in a deal valuing Wellsford at $1 billion.
The deal would make Equity Residential, which is already the largest publicly traded apartment building owner in the country, the second largest real estate investment trust in any category, the company said.
"Consolidation of this industry is critical for its evolution," Zell, who is chairman of Equity Residential, said in a statement. "The size and liquidity of the combined entity reinforces EQR's status as the No. 1 multifamily (real estate investment trust)."
The deal values New York-based Wellsford at about $1 billion, or $29.61 a share, an 18.7 percent premium over its recent stock price, the companies said.
Equity Residential said it expected to trim about $3.1 million in annual general and administrative expenses and $800,000 in property management expenses after the closing of the deal, which is expected to occur by May.
Equity Residential expects the merger to add 10 cents to 13 cents a share in annualized funds from operation -- the measure commonly used to measure real estate investment fund performance.
When the deal closes, Equity Residential will own and operate 317 properties with 90,873 units. It also adds properties in areas like the Pacific Northwest and West Coast, where strong demand allows for higher rents.
"Those markets have higher rental growth than the national average from other markets," said Jeff Langbaum, associate analyst at investment firm Alex. Brown &amp; Sons. Equity Residential estimated rent growth in those areas at 5 percent to 6 percent annualy, while Langbaum estimated the national average at about 4 percent.
Each Wellsford share will be exchanged for 0.625 share of Equity Residential, or about $27.11, plus one share of Wellsford Properties Inc., a newly formed company that will continue Wellsford's development activities, the companies said in a joint statement.
The exchange ratio is subject to upward revision if Equity Residential shares fall below $40. If they drop below $37, the parties have the right to terminate the merger agreement.
Equity Residential also will exchange about $158 million in preferred shares. In addition, Equity Residential will assume about $330 million in Wellsford's debt.
The deal continues the consolidation of real estate investment trusts (REIT).
"It's pretty apparent that that's the way the REIT world, especially apartments right now, is heading," Langbaum said.
In December, Houston-based Cambden Property Trust said it would acquire Dallas-based Paragon Group Inc., to create an apartment real estate trust with 36,199 units.
Unlike the hostile takeover Zell's Manufactured Home Communites Inc. launched against Chateau Properties Inc., which was rebuffed by the manufactured housing community operator last year, the Equity Residential deal was unanimously approved by both companies' boards of trustees, the companies said.
Wellsford shares were up $1.875 at $27.625, while Equity Residential was down $1.125 at $42.25 on the New York Stock Exchange in late trading.
Shareholders in tiny British healthcare group Enviromed Plc staged a bloodless coup on Friday, toppling the embattled company's board.
The gentlemanly storming of the barricades around Enviromed's Knightsbridge headquarters was led by Ron Zwanziger, chief executive officer of Enviromed's biggest shareholder, U.S. company Selfcare Inc.
Zwanziger has watched the value of Selfcare's 29 percent stake in Enviromed dwindle as the share price plummeted from around 112 pence per share in December 1994 to around 25 pence, in line with a collapse in the group's profitability.
Selfcare, which produces tests for pregnancy and infectious diseases, asked shareholders to back its plans to remove four members of the board, led by managing director Thomas Murphy, at an extraordinary meeting on Friday.
But after weeks of charge and counter charge by both sides, the expected showdown in the unlikely setting of Dean's Yard, next to Westminster Abbey, turned out to be a sedate rubber stamping exercise.
The board of Enviromed, which produces specialist enzymes and diagnostic equipment, spiked the guns of its opponents by conceding defeat after proxy votes showed 49 percent backing for Selfcare and just under 39 percent supporting the status quo.
A brief show of hands was sufficent to confirm the handover of power and the new board, with Selfcare's Zwanziger as non-executive chairman, was already holding its first meeting as individual shareholders continued to drift in.
This was Zwanziger's second attempt to get rid of the board, which he quit in April 1995 over differences involving a joint venture between Selfcare and Enviromed. Resolutions demanding the board step down were withdrawn just before the start of another extraordinary general meeting in February 1996.
Zwanziger accused Enviromed of eroding shareholder value through poor management and of holding firesales of assets, including the disposal of a dental distribution business and veterinary diagnostic operation, as it sought to cut debts.
In turn Enviromed accused Zwanziger of trying to gain control of the company "via the back door", and challenged him to launch a full takeover bid.
Enviromed's value began to plunge in December 1994, the month that Murphy was appointed, as a pretax profit of 2.2 million pounds ($3.68 million) in the year to September 1994 turned into a loss of 8.2 million a year later. The company's market capitalisation fell from around 28 million pounds to just over 6.0 million.
Murphy vehemently rejected blame for the collapse, saying he had inherited a pile of problems he and other board members had worked hard to resolve.
Peter Jones, who follows Enviromed for brokers Peel Hunt &amp; Co, said Murphy had been dealt a "bum hand," and criticism of him was "unreasonable."
Jones said the company was now at the point where its value should start to rise again, particularly through the group's "nicely profitable" enzyme business Biozyme. "There are some genuinely good products and a good business inside Enviromed which should be capable of providing serious returns for investors," he said.
($1=.5979 Pound)
Cable &amp; Wireless (C&amp;W) on Friday brushed aside speculation that its landmark merger with three companies had run into hurdles and said it had got the man it wanted to run what will be Britain's biggest cable firm.
In a long-awaited statememt, C&amp;W said it would appoint Graham Wallace as chief executive of Cable and Wireless Communications, formed by merging C&amp;W's Mercury unit, Nynex Corp's NYNEX CableComms Group, Bell Cablemedia Plc, and Videotron Holdings Plc.
"Graham Wallace is the one we wanted," C&amp;W chief executive Richard Brown told Reuters in an interview.
"He is the first choice and we're delighted to get him."
Wallace, who will join C&amp;W on February 1, is currently a director at leisure and media company Granada Group. But he brings with him useful experience in television from a stint on the board of satellite broadcaster BSkyB.
C&amp;W, is mainly a telecommunications business and has little previous experience in television.
But one analyst gave the appointment a lukewarm reception.
"It's not an obvious choice," said the analyst. "He strikes me as very competent, but does he know anything about the cable business? I'm not quite sure why they didn't go for one of the insiders. There were some strong people, I thought."
Although C&amp;W's shares were languishing 2.5 pence lower at 485.5 pence in late afternoon trade, NYNEX CableComms saw its shares rise 5.5 pence to 108.5 pence.
With C&amp;W, Britain's second biggest telecoms company, planning to finalise the cable merger in spring, the lack of a chief executive at the new company had fuelled some speculation that a clash of cultures was hindering talks.
Although Brown conceded that the merger was complicated, he insisted: "That is not true...There's a great deal of activity and we really are right on track.
"There is an exciting spirit of cooperation to bring this to reality," he said.
Brown, who will take the chair of the company, tipped to be worth 5.0 billion pounds ($8.36 billion), said a finance director would be the next announcement.
The proposed cable merger was announced last October -- and most such deals spell job cuts.
Although Brown said he was not legally allowed to comment ahead of Cable and Wireless Communications's planned listing in London and New York, he warned that the new group would "clearly" reap efficiencies.
"I cannot quantify what that is going to be, but we are working on that and we will achieve that," he said.
Cable and Wireless Communications, which will be well-placed to compete against dominant telecoms company British Telecommunications, will provide local, national and international data and mobile telecommunications with multi-channel television and Internet services.
($1=.5979 Pound)
British Telecommunications (BT) on Friday played down top level talks with Japanese telecoms giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp but analysts refused to rule out that the companies were hatching a deal.
Since the talks were announced on Thursday, speculation has swept the market that BT, which along with its American partner MCI Communications has been openly courting NTT, might be on the brink of a link-up.
But a BT spokesman told Reuters: "That meeting was of no particular significance. We have regular contacts at that level and will continue to do so with NTT and others."
While BT is playing its cards close to its chest, some analysts speculated that the company, keen to get a foothold in the lucrative Asian telecoms markets via the world's biggest telecoms player, might hammer out a deal with NTT quite soon.
"I think that they are quite close to it," said John Tysoe, telecoms analyst at brokers SocGen Strauss Turnbull. But he added: "That is just instinct."
One analyst even said he had made a bet with a colleague that a deal would be signed or announced before the end of February. But others were split.
"You would expect in the next 12-18 months something to happen," said Chris McFadden, analyst at Merrill Lynch, adding: "If it happened tomorrow, we'd be all pleasantly surprised."
Another said he thought an imminent "memorandum of understanding" between the two companies was quite possible. But he added: "But in terms of any tangible, real tie-up, I would put it later in the year."
But analysts agree on two things. They dismiss as a "courtship ritual" NTT's statement that it might prefer to branch out into the global international market on its own.
They also believe that NTT will want to be calling the shots on any deal.
NTT may even stop short of a straight deal with BT and MCI's Concert alliance, preferring to link up with more than one global alliance. "On a selected basis, they may link up with as many as possible," said one analyst.
At present, there are three main alliances.
Apart from Concert, Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom and America's Sprint have formed Global One. The third consortium is WorldPartners, a loosely-knit organisation created by U.S. telecoms gaint AT&amp;T.
Members include Unisource, a venture of PTT Telecom of the Netherlands, a Swedish firm, the Swiss service provider, Spain's Telefonica and a stack of Asia-Pacific members such as Hongkong Telecom, Australia's Telstra and Korea Telecom.
BT's chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield is also travelling to Japan at the end of this month, part of a regular trip where he is likely to meet NTT executives, BT says.
BT has had an office in Japan for 10 years and already has a minor link with one of NTT's units, NTT Data, which distributes its Concert Internet Plus services.
It sent its first regional director to Tokyo this year in a move to highlight the growing importance of the area.
Russian oil company officials said on Friday that Moscow would not slap a duty on heavy fuel oil exports this winter, leaving traders to breathe a sigh of relief but still wary of secretive government manoeuvres.
The prospect of no restrictions on exports of mazut, as Russian heavy fuel oil is known, soothed traders who had been worried about short supplies of Russian material, which keep much of European and Mediterranean markets warm.
But while traders said they were now almost one hundred percent certain there would be no export duty, they cautioned that anything could happen in the Byzantine world of Russia.
"I am convinced that there will be no duty -- but I also know how all sorts of unexpected nightmares can happen in Russia," said a source at a European buyer in Moscow.
State oil holding company Rosneft's chief spokesman Vladimir Tumarkin told Reuters that a Fuel and Energy Ministry plan for a duty had fallen flat on its face with senior cabinet officials.
"They (the government) have decided not to introduce any restrictions," he said.
A second official at Rosneft, which ministry employees said was handling the mazut issue, also said there would be no duty.
"It is safe to say there will be no duty. It's too late. We had all expected one, but it has not come," Gennady Grigoryev, deputy head of Rosneft's financial-commercial directorate, said.
The Rosneft officials said Fuel and Energy Minister Pyotr Rodionov -- who had reiterated publicly as recently as last month that there would be a duty -- had failed to excite Kremlin officials with the idea.
"Rodionov was insisting on his position, but there are many corridors of power in Russia and he just did not score enough points with government officials to get them to agree to this," one of the Rosneft officials said.
One trader likened Rodionov's comments to "a soldier's talk designed to pump people up and reflect his interests".
"It's really possible it's true (that there will be no export duty)," said a senior trader at a European company.
"But it comes a little too late to make me happy. I'm not thinking about mazut until May or so."
Russian heavy fuel oil exports tail off sharply in the colder winter season from November to around May, as waterways and export outlets freeze and consumption increases at home.
The mazut export issue was a hot item of debate in government halls, with Rodionov's camp arguing for a tariff to bolster domestic supplies, and those against the proposal saying Russia needed fewer restrictions and more of a market economy.
Traders are conditioned to expect a Russian heavy fuel oil export restriction.
Moscow raised the export tariff on mazut to 16 Ecus per tonne from six Ecus during December 1995 to March 1996 to curb deliveries abroad. It banned mazut exports outright from December 1994 to April 1995.
"Russia has grown up," said one of the traders, adding that the decision not to levy a tariff was a triumph for Russia's new market-minded leaders over the old generation.
"I think there were a lot of people in the government who realised that such tariffs are just not advantageous."
-- Moscow Newsroom +7095 941 8520
Colombia's cocaine kings, Gilberto and Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela, were sentenced to 21 and 18 years in prison respectively on Friday, but had their terms halved for pleading guilty, bringing a swift rebuke from the United States.
Gilberto Rodriguez, who also was fined $8 million, and his brother -- fined $4.4 million -- will be eligible for extra sentence reductions for working and studying in prison.
The sentences were called "totally unacceptable" by U.S. Ambassador Myles Frechette, whose government unsuccessfully called for the extradition of the Rodriguez brothers in July.
The public prosecutor's office said it would appeal the terms, but under Colombia's lenient anti-drug laws this would add little additional jail time.
"The U.S. government and American public opinion will be shocked by these low sentences," Frechette told reporters. "These sentences are totally unacceptable," he said.
Gilberto, nicknamed the Chess Player for his cunning criminal mind, headed the powerful Cali drug cartel until his capture in June 1995.
Together with his brother Miguel, the pair masterminded a huge drug trafficking empire, supplying an estimated 80 percent of the world's cocaine and building up a multi-billion dollar fortune in the process.
U.S. officials have said repeatedly that the brothers continue to run their criminal empire from behind the walls of Bogota's La Picota prison.
That allegation, coupled with Friday's ruling by a judge in the city of Cali, could strike a fatal blow to Colombia's hopes of averting more U.S. trade sanctions in March when Washington will decide whether it should remain on a list of pariah states that have failed to cooperate in ther global fight against drugs.
A so-called "faceless" judge sentenced Gilberto Rodriguez, 57, to 21 years for drug-trafficking, conspiracy, illicit enrichment, falsification of documents and the illegal possession of weapons.
That term was immediately cut to 10-1/2 years, in return for his plea and prompt confession, and with extra reductions for working and studying in jail he will likely spend about six years in prison. With time already served in custody awaiting trial, Gilberto Rodriguez could be a free in 2002.
His brother Miguel, 53, was sentenced to 18 years, halved for his guilty plea and full confession. He will also be eligible for extra reductions.
The respected Colombian political magazine Semana recently estimated the combined fortune of the Rodriguez Orejuela brothers and two other top traffickers at $50 billion. The brothers may lose part of their fortune under the terms of the new asset forfeiture law passed by Congress in December.
The office of Prosecutor-General Alfonso Valdivieso, an anti-drug crusader and close ally of Washington, said it would use all legal resources to appeal the sentences and see that "just penalties" are eventually imposed on the Cali kingpins.
Under current legislation, the brothers faced a maximum of no more than 24 years imprisonment.
National Police chief Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano, who oversaw the arrests of the Rodriguez brothers in June and August of 1995, called Friday's sentences "a disgrace" and said they might just as well have been left free.
"I'm not going to continue jailing drug traffickers so they can get out in three years. It's a disgrace," he said.
Mexican Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria on Thursday criticised the United States for its policy of rewarding or punishing countries based on their measures to fight drug trafficking.
During a visit to Colombia, Gurria said the so-called certification process was a barrier to cooperation in the war on drugs and renewed calls for scrapping the system, saying decisions were often based on ulterior motives.
"The process of certification inhibits cooperation and puts the country under scrutiny in a very difficult position. I believe there are much better ways of promoting cooperation," Gurria said at a news conference. He added that "the decision is often based on criteria other than those that one would rationally take into consideration."
Last year, Colombia was struck off the United States' list of allies in the drug war. Mexico came under severe criticism but managed to get certification and escape sanctions.
Mexico has since set up a ministerial contact group to address the issue with Washington, and that has led to an improved climate between the two governments, Gurria said.
Colombia has continued to come under heavy criticism from the United States for its perceived failure to crack down hard enough on drug trafficking.
Politicians and political analysts were divided on whether Colombia would regain certification this March in the wake of of a new law to strip drug kingpins of narcotics profits.
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration estimates that 80 percent of the world's cocaine is supplied by Colombia while more than half that on the streets of U.S. cities has been transported through Mexico.
A U.S. military honour guard on Friday formally took back the remains of U.S. airmen killed in World War Two and sent them on their final journey home.
Chinese officials handed over to U.S. Ambassador James Sasser three black cases containing the remains of the B-24 bomber's crew, who died when their plane hit a steep mountain slope in China's southwestern Guangxi region 52 years ago.
Under a crisp blue winter sky, uniformed men and women from the U.S. Army, Marine Corps and Navy placed the remains in three body-length aluminium cases and covered each with an American flag in a ceremony at Beijing's Capital Airport.
"This ceremony is dedicated to the American servicemen who made contributions and sacrificed their lives to resist fascist aggression," said Mei Ping, director of the North American and Oceanian Affairs Office of China's Foreign Ministry.
"The remains of these airmen will now be repatriated to their homeland where they can finally rest in peace," Mei said at the ceremony.
The oblong cases were loaded onto a U.S. C-141 Starlifter transport aircraft that was to fly the remains to the Department of Defence's Central Identification Laboratory in Hawaii for identification.
The remains represented more than one person but it was still unknown how many individuals they belonged to, said Alan Liotta of the MIA/POW (Missing in Action/Prisoner of War) Office under the Department of Defence.
Chinese and U.S. officials and soldiers saluted the dead airmen as a military dirge drifted across the airport tarmac.
U.S. officials said the mission to recover the remains was part of an ongoing effort by the U.S. and Chinese governments to provide a full accounting of American soldiers lost in regional conflicts.
"After 50 years, we have every reason, between the United States and China, to live in peace and work for peace, security and prosperity of mankind," Mei told reporters.
U.S. officials first learned of the find when Chinese President Jiang Zemin handed over a video and photographs of the crash site to President Bill Clinton when the two met in Manila last November at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
Jiang revealed the find at a time when both Washington and Beijing say ties are improving after plunging early last year.
Two local farmers discovered the wreckage of the aircraft last October after becoming lost while looking for wild herbs.
The B-24 bomber with its 10-man crew never returned to its base in Guangxi after completing a raid on Japanese ships around Taiwan on August 31, 1944.
A six-man forensic team from the Department of Defence that clawed its way up the steep, slippery face of Mao'er mountain on Tuesday to inspect the crash site found more human remains and parts of the bomber.
U.S. officials said they had made contact with all 10 families of the crewmen aboard the plane. They said the site appeared to have been untouched for more than half a century.
Synopsys Inc. said Thursday it agreed to buy Epic Design Technology Inc. for about $428.1 million in stock to gain expertise in a hot niche of the semiconductor design business.
Synopsys, which writes software to help engineers design computer chips, said it will issue 0.7485 of its shares for each of Epic's 13.7 million shares outstanding. Based on Synopsys's closing stock price of $41.75 on Wednesday, Synopsys would pay about $31.25 for each Epic share.
Shares of Epic, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., fell 87.5 cents to $31 in late Nasdaq trading. Shares of Synopsys, based in Mountain View, Calif., were unchanged at $41.75, also on Nasdaq.
Synopsys specializes in software used in designing the overall framework of a microchip. Epic specializes in software for designing individual microscopic circuits, millions of which make up the microchip.
The acquisition gives Synopsys an edge as the so-called design automation industry scrambles to come up with ways to help engineers design ever smaller chips, analysts said.
"We believe the Epic acquisition is a good strategic move," said Raj Seth, analyst at Cowen &amp; Co. in Boston. "Synopsys picks up technologies that are increasingly critical to developing" the tiny "deep submicron" circuits.
Synopsys' customers, which include some of the world's biggest chip makers, have been asking for a suite of design software that would let engineers design a chip's framework as well as its circuits, said Aart de Geus, Synopsys chief executive.
Epic will become a unit of Synopsys, the companies said. Sang Wang, Epic chairman and CEO, will head the unit.
Synopsys will take an undetermined charge for the acquisition in the quarter the transaction is done, "ideally March," said Brooke Seawell, Synopsys chief financial officer. Because of little overlapping products, there should be no Epic job cuts, Seawell said.
Shareholders in tiny British healthcare group Enviromed Plc staged a bloodless coup on Friday, toppling the embattled company's board.
The gentlemanly storming of the barricades around Enviromed's Knightsbridge headquarters was led by Ron Zwanziger, chief executive officer of Enviromed's biggest shareholder, U.S. company Selfcare Inc.
Zwanziger has watched the value of Selfcare's 29 percent stake in Enviromed dwindle as the share price plummeted from around 112 pence per share in December 1994 to around 25 pence, in line with a collapse in the group's profitability.
Selfcare, which produces tests for pregnancy and infectious diseases, asked shareholders to back its plans to remove four members of the board, led by managing director Thomas Murphy, at an extraordinary meeting on Friday.
But after weeks of charge and counter-charge by both sides, the expected showdown in the unlikely setting of Dean's Yard, next to Westminster Abbey, turned out to be a sedate rubber-stamping exercise.
The board of Enviromed, which produces specialist enzymes and diagnostic equipment, spiked the guns of its opponents by conceding defeat after proxy votes showed 49 percent backing for Selfcare and just under 39 percent supporting the status quo.
A brief show of hands was sufficent to confirm the handover of power and the new board, with Selfcare's Zwanziger as non-executive chairman, was already holding its first meeting as individual shareholders continued to drift in.
This was Zwanziger's second attempt to get rid of the board, which he quit in April 1995 over differences involving a joint venture between Selfcare and Enviromed. Resolutions demanding the board step down were withdrawn just before the start of another extraordinary general meeting in February 1996.
Zwanziger accused Enviromed of eroding shareholder value through poor management and of holding firesales of assets, including the disposal of a dental distribution business and veterinary diagnostic operation, as it sought to cut debts.
In turn Enviromed accused Zwanziger of trying to gain control of the company "via the back door", and challenged him to launch a full takeover bid.
Enviromed's value began to plunge in December 1994, the month that Murphy was appointed, as a pretax profit of 2.2 million stg in the year to September 1994 turned into a loss of 8.2 million stg a year later. The company's market capitalization fell from around 28 million stg to just over 6.0 million.
Murphy vehemently rejected blame for the collapse, saying he had inherited a pile of problems he and other board members had worked hard to resolve.
One of the new board's first goals will be to appoint a finance director. In a letter to shareholders ahead of the extraordinary meeting Zwanziger said the new board would focus on the development of the enzyme buisness Biozyme which it said was already profitable.
British telecommunications company Energis said on Friday that its parent, the National Grid electricity transmission network, might sell a majority stake in the company to one or more strategic investors this summer.
The group, which supplies telecoms services to about 14,000 business customers via the Grid's high voltage electricity pylons, also said it was poised to announce a continental deal in a move that will slash the cost of European telephone calls.
Chief executive Mike Grabiner, who moved from the country's dominant phone company British Telecommunications a year ago, said Energis had talked to all global carriers, with the exception of BT, in its search for international partners.
And since the birth of a new cable giant -- Cable and Wireless Communications -- the company is also looking to gain access to key metropolitan areas.
"I think both Energis and the Grid initially see the Grid selling a minority stake in the business," Grabiner told Reuters in an interview. But he added: "For the right mix of partners, I think they could go below 50 percent -- but still maintain a very large strategic and influential interest in the company."
Energis has been burning a 100 million pound ($168 million) per-year hole in the pocket of the Grid, which was demerged from the 12 regional electricity companies and floated in 1995.
Some analysts say that a significant equity partner in loss-making Energis, that has been valued at more than 600 million pounds, could help inspire the Grid's lacklustre shares.
However, Grabiner said talks with U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T were "not very active". Some analysts tip the Global One alliance between America's Sprint, France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom as a potential partner.
Global One has little British access and Energis has already signed a "correspondent agreement" with Sprint, America's third international carrier, to end each other's transatlantic calls.
But Energis is keeping its options open. It has also talked to "selected international strategic investors". "(A partner) hasn't got to be a global carrier. It has to be a partner who can support us and add value to the business," Grabiner stated.
Energis was set up in 1993 and operates one of the country's most advanced networks by wrapping 4,500 kms of fibre optic cables -- capable of transmitting images and data as well as voice -- around the earthwires between overhead power pylons.
But Energis still has to rely on local operators to originate and end calls.
A five billion pound merger between Cable and Wireless's Mercury unit, NYNEX CableComms, Bell Cablemedia and Videotron to create the country's biggest cable group has increased the pressure on Energis to get local access.
To be competitive with BT and Cable and Wireless Communications, Energis is considering linking up with other cable players, local operators or building its own network.
In the meantime, with an international licence safely under its belt, Energis is looking to spark an aggressive price war on European busines telephone routes with an "imminent" new correspondent agreement with a major telecom player.
The government broke the BT/Mercury duopoly on owning international calls networks last month, awarding 44 new international licences. Rivals, which used to be forced to lease line capacity from BT and Mercury at high prices, can now buy permament line capacity from others -- and save a lot of money.
"We have a very small market share, a dramatically reduced cost base and every incentive to be aggressive on price to grow our market share. And we will do that," Grabiner said.
Last October, Energis offered to undercut BT by about 50 percent with a 10 pence-per-minute charge for selected business customers on direct dialled calls to America. "European prices have further to go than North American prices," Grabiner noted.
($1=.5958 Pound)
Microsoft Corp is expected to report modest earnings growth for the latest quarter on Friday despite tough comparisons with the year-earlier period and a sales slowdown ahead of an upgrade of a popular software package.
Industry analysts surveyed by First Call on average expect Microsoft to report earnings of 51 cents a share for its second quarter ended December 31, up about 16 percent from the 44 cents a share reported a year earlier. Sales are expected to rise about 14 percent to more than $2.5 billion.
Analysts consider that a strong performance against tough comparisons with the year-earlier period, the first full quarter of availability for the Windows 95 operating system.
In the 1995 second quarter sales soared 54 percent and net income jumped 48 percent.
"These guys are just incredibly strong now," said Rob Owens of Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Ore. "They'll probably meet or beat (Wall) Street's estimate again."
Investors will have all weekend to analyse the results, which are due to be released after the close of trading on Friday.
Microsoft executives originally had scheduled the release for Thursday but decided to delay the report until a day after an event publicising the launch of Office 97, its best-selling package of business software.
Analysts estimated that revenues of Office and its component applications account for up to 30 percent of Microsoft's total, but the figure will be lower for the quarter just ended because of the impending upgrade.
For much of the quarter Microsoft offered Office 95 buyers coupons good for a free upgrade, which will result in some revenues being deferred into future reporting periods.
But strong growth in personal computer sales and in acceptance of Microsoft's high-end Windows NT operating system continue to buoy the company's profits.
"The ongoing strength of the NT cycle is what's carrying the day," said Chris Galvin of Hambrecht &amp; Quist. "Countervailing that is the tough comparison last year with the Windows 95 release, so it's a mixed scenario."
Owen said that while sales of PCs to consumers were sluggish in the latest quarter, declining prices and increased processing power had sparked a new wave of corporate buying.
He said 30 percent or fewer of corporate desktops have made the transition to the Windows 95 or Windows NT systems.
"That's a tremendous opportunity for Microsoft," he said.  
The Malaysian Prime Minister said participants had raised concerns about shortages of skilled knowledge workers, and about how to market products in neighbouring countries.
Malaysia's newly formed Multimedia Development Corp is preparing to take formal applications beginning in March from "world-class companies" wanting to set up operations in the Multimedia Super Corridor.
McNealy said Sun Microsystems was already planning to put a Java Software Development Competency Center in the new high tech zone, and a senior executive of NTT Corp said the Japanese telecommunications giant was also planning to locate a research and development centre in the multimedia corridor.
NTT also wants to join other participants in forming a Multimedia University which Malaysia envisions for the area.
Some of the executives said the project was ambitious, and would likely face many pressures for the plan to change as it progressed, despite its success in attracting initial support.
"You cannot command creation," said Bishop. "We have an impeccable plan, but execution still has to happen. We know enough in this new digital world that there are a lot of unpredictable discontinuities that occur. No country has a monopoly on these things."  
Mahathir said individual panel members would continue to meet over the next year, and that a further full meeting would be called in Malaysia a year from now to review progress.
French electrical equipment company Schneider aims to almost double its return on equity capital to 15 percent in the next three years, executive vice president Michel Staib told Reuters.
"Our objective is to have a net return on capital, before amortisation of goodwill, of 15 percent...in three years," he said in an interview. "It's a reasonable plan."
That compared to just over eight percent in 1995, he said. The improvement will come from pruning down Schneider to core electrical activities and an internal re-engineering programme.
Schneider shares have risen strongly in the past few weeks as analysts considered the stock undervalued and welcomed the pending sale of the Spie Batignolles unit, which has dragged on the group's results.
The stock has risen around 10 percent since mid-December when news of its Spie sale hit the market. The shares closed on Wednesday at 255.70 francs. About a third of the capital is in non-domestic hands.
All the group companies are profitable and with the sale of construction company Spie Batignolles, Schneider is at a "diamond point," Staib said.
Staib did not rule out further disposals depending on market and technology changes but Schneider is now well-focused.
Schneider will seek growth in emerging markets, in South America and Asia, including India. It wants Asia to contribute at least 20 percent of group turnover before the end of the decade compared to 11 percent in 1995.
Schneider has expanded its operations in China, increasing the number of employees to 2,500 from 200 five years ago.
The company also wants to increase its share in Germany from a tiny three to four percent of a market which Staib says is the world's third largest. Germany accounted for 2.5 percent of turnover in 1995, or three billion francs.
It will seek alliances with other industrial companies rather than acquire firms, as the Germany market is tightly held. Expansion in emerging markets will also be done through local alliances and joint ventures.
Schneider last year bought out Daimler-Benz AG's 50 percent share in AEG Schneider Automation unit.
Schneider posted 1995 sales of 59.42 billion francs and net attributable profit of 817 million. It reported 1996 first half net profit of 503 million francs, at the low end of market expectations.
Schneider is selling Spie to Amec Plc and to Spie employees for one billion francs, subject to regulatory approvals. Amec will gain between 40-48.6 percent of Spie for an injection of 40 million stg.
-- Pierre Tran, Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452
British telecommunications company Energis said on Friday that its parent, the National Grid electricity transmission network, might sell a majority stake in the company to one or more strategic investors.
Energis, which supplies telecoms services to 13,000-14,000 business customers via the Grid's high voltage electricity pylons, is seeking both an international partner and one that will give it local access to key metropolitan areas.
"We have an excellent core national network and a growing customer base," chief executive Mike Grabiner told Reuters.
"International connectivity and local access are the two things to do next," he added in an interview.
Grabiner, who came from the country's dominant 'phone company British Telecommunications one year ago, said Energis had talked with all global carriers, with the exception of BT, in its search for an international partner.
"I think both Energis and the Grid initially see the Grid selling a minority stake in the business," Grabiner said.
But he added: "For the right mix of partners, I think they could go below 50 percent -- but still maintain a very large strategic and influential interest in the company."
Energis is on track for signing up an international partner this summer, Grabiner said, noting: "We're very much still in active discussions."
However, Grabiner said talks with U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T were "not very active". Some analysts tip the Global One alliance between America's Sprint, France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom as a potential partner.
Global One has little British access and Energis has already signed a "correspondent agreement" with Sprint, America's third inernational carrier, to end each other's transatlantic calls.
But Energis is keeping its options open. It has also talked to some international "strategic investors". "(A partner) hasn't got to be a global carrier. It has to be a partner who can support us and add value to the business," Grabiner stated.
He conceded that a five billion pound cable link-up between Cable and Wireless, NYNEX Cablecomms, Bell Cablemedia and Videotron, has highlighted Energis' lack of local loop access.
"In a sense our discussions have broadened," he said.
Energis, which needs to be able to match the cost structure of BT and the new cable company Cable and Wireless Communications, is considering whether to link up with a cable company, other local operators or build its own network.
Some analysts say that a significant equity partner in loss-making Energis, that has been valued at more than 600 million pounds, could help inspire the Grid's lacklustre shares.
The Grid is committed to investing 100 million pounds per year into the loss-making telecoms subsidiary for the immediate forseeable future.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7987
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key index turned in another solid performance on Friday, posting a fourth record close for 1997 and hitting a new intra-day high as well.
The TSE 300 Composite Index added 35.14 points to close at 6138.80 in a seven session winning streak. Trading again was brisk: 120.3 million shares moved worth C$1.85 billion ($1.38 billion).
The new lifetime high is now 6144.29 points.
"Stocks are terrific. Another up day, in Toronto, across the board," said Maison Placements Canada president John Ing. "Gold stocks were very strong."
Bullion prices managed to push heavily weighted golds higher. Comex February gold rose $1.40 to finish at $356.40 on Friday.
Toronto's market has also benefitted from a recent influx of cash. Canadians are turning some bank savings into tax sheltered pension funds ahead of an end-February deadline for 1996 retirement plans, analysts said.
Of Toronto's 14 sub-indices, all but three -- real estate, forestry products and utilities -- climbed. Consumer products, golds, conglomerates and media stocks surged the most.
Advancers outpaced decliners 603 to 430 while 263 traded unchanged.
Tiny Mineral Resources Corp. topped Toronto's most actives. Shares rose a cent to seven and a half cents after news it plans a takeover bid for ailing Anvil Range Mining Corp.
Canadian Occidental Petroleum Ltd. jumped 1.25 to 25.30 on nearly 3.5 million shares, helped by firmer energy prices.
Bre-X Minerals Ltd. slipped 0.30 to 24.40. It said it was reviewing Placer Dome Inc.'s C$5 billion ($3.7 billion) offer and comparing it to Barrick Gold Corp.'s unpriced bid.
Despite Bre-X's response, a source in the Indonesian mines ministry said the Indonesian government, which suggested a Bre-X-Barrick partnership, was not likely to approve Placer's plan. The government has the final say over which companies will develop the huge Busang gold deposit in Indonesia.
Placer shares gained 0.20 to 29.15 while Barrick rose 1.05 to 36.85.
Microsoft Corp. Friday reported better-than-expected second-quarter profits on broad strength in sales of its personal computer software but warned of slower earnings growth next year.
The Redmond, Wash.-based software giant posted earnings of $741 million or 57 cents a share in the second quarter of fiscal 1997, a 29 percent increase over the $575 million, or 45 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenues rose 22 percent to $2.68 billion from $2.2 billion a year earlier.
The results, issued after the market had closed, beat analysts' highest forecasts, sending shares of Microsoft as high as $89 in after-hours trading, but the stock later fell to $85.50 due to the warning about slower earnings growth. In regular Nasdaq trading, Microsoft had gained $1.125 to $87.125.
"It was a terrific quarter," said Goldman Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund. "Compared with expectations, revenue was quite a bit stronger than expected, as was the earnings number."
Wall Street analysts on average had expected Microsoft to report earnings of 51 cents a share, with estimates ranging from 47 to 55 cents, according to First Call.
Microsoft's earnings in the quarter were driven by strong sales in virtually all areas, including its Windows computer operating systems, BackOffice server software and desktop applications such as Office, executives said.
Revenues from "OEM" sales through computer manufacturers rose 29 percent to $866 million, while revenues from countries outside the United States, Canada and Europe rose 32 percent to $424 million, with Japan a particularly strong performer.
But in the earnings statement and in a conference call later with reporters and analysts, Microsoft chief financial officer Mike Brown warned that the company's growth is likely to slow in fiscal 1998, which begins July 1.
"We are pleased with the current financial results and growth prospects for the next two quarters, particularly with the outlook for sales of Office 97," Brown said in the statement.
"However I do anticipate slower earnings growth in fiscal 1998 (beginning July 1997) due to lower revenue increases in our maturing businesses and margin pressure from continuing aggressive spending on research and development and new business ventures," Brown said.
In the conference call he went so far as to wonder aloud about Microsoft's high stock price compared with its anticipated earnings growth.
"It's not my purpose to second-guess the market," he said. "However I will say that our current EPS (earnings per share) multiple is cause for curiosty at least to me."
Sherlund said such cautionary comments were typical of the company's financially conservative nature.
"Directionally those comments were quite consistent with what we've heard before," Sherlund said.
Scott McAdams, an analyst at Ragen MacKenzie, said that while Microsoft's price-earnings multiple is higher than would be expected given its slowing growth, investors pay a premium for its ability to consistently beat earnings estimates.
In a sign of Microsoft's financial strength, the software giant said it ended the quarter with $9.16 billion in cash and short-term investments, up from $7.1 billion just three months earlier.
And the company's "unearned revenues," representing sales deferred to reflect costs incurred over the life of cyclical products such as Windows 95 and Office, rose to $1.013 billion from $651 million at the end of the previous quarter.
Microsoft Corp Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown said he expected earnings and revenues to rise sequentially in the fiscal third and fourth quarters compared with the just-ended second quarter.
Brown said in an interview he expects the recent release of Office 97 to provide a "nice step" up in earnings in the third quarter from the $0.57 a share reported for the second quarter, and he sees a "small sequential step up" in the fourth quarter.
Brown also said he expected revenues and earnings growth in the 20 percent range for fiscal 1998 beginning July 1, 1997.  
"It doesn't seem wise to get beyond that with data we have today," he said.
Brown said he was pleased with the record results of the just-ended second quarter, which he said was strong "across the board."
But he said the company thought it was prudent to issue a warning about slower growth in fiscal 1998, when Microsoft will not enjoy the benefit of major revenue-enhancing upgrades such as Windows 95 last year and Office 97 this year.  
While the company does have an opportunity to boost its OEM revenue with the increasing penetration of the high-end Windows NT operating system, which generates more revenue per unit than Windows 95, Brown said he expected that to be more significant in fiscal 1999.
"It's just a good time to be a little bit realistic about '98," he said.
Brown said he expected research and development spending to continue to grow faster than revenues in fiscal 1998, although he declined to be specific. He noted that the company's R&amp;D spending now exceeds an annual rate of $2 billion, and he expected that to exceed $3 billion "at some point" in the future, putting pressure on profit margins.
He said while the company has reduced its cost of goods sold this year, it is unlikely to be able to reduce them much further next year.
But he said the company could continue to reduce its sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues.
Brown also said the company's cash position spiked up in the second quarter, in part because of a hedging transaction connected with its stock option program. ((-- Reuters Seattle bureau 206-386-4848))
An uproar over the sudden departure of Hong Kong's chief immigration official last July is expected to gather momentum this week, when the territory's top civil servant appears before a Legislative Council enquiry.
Anson Chan, the territory's popular chief secretary, is expected to resist demands by Legislative Council (Legco) committee members that she release confidential reports on former immigration boss Laurence Leung.
Chan's appearance before the committee on Wednesday sets the stage for a showdown between the Hong Kong government, now facing accusations of a political cover-up, and the Legco select committee investigating the Leung affair.
Committee chairman Ip Kwok-him last week threatened to use a powerful ordinance to slap Chan with contempt if she fails to unveil the reports -- statements which drew a sharp response from the government on Sunday.
If the committee uses the Legco (Powers and Privileges) ordinance to open the reports, "then it will have to be solved in the court", civil service secretary Lam Woon-kwong told the South China Morning Post newspaper.
At issue are two investigations, one an anti-corruption probe and the other a police integrity check, both performed before Leung left his post where he enjoyed access to highly sensitive information.
British press reports have since alleged that Leung was spying for China, which takes back Hong Kong after 150 years of colonial rule on July 1 this year.
Leung, whose daughter was murdered with a cross-bow in Canada four years ago, has denied being a spy. But a few days ago, Leung contradicted earlier claims that he resigned for personal reasons and announced that he was forced to quit.
The Hong Kong government said on Saturday that no decision had yet been made on whether to release the reports but stressed its concern to uphold the privacy rights of civil servants.
It also noted that witnesses before the select committee enjoy all the rights and privileges of a witness in court.
"If that witness claims public interest immunity in relation to any document, he is entitled to put his reasons before the chairman for a ruling," the government said in a statement.
Governor Chris Patten on Sunday reiterated his support for Chan and civil service secretary Lam Woon-Kwong, but declined to comment on how the government would respond to the committee's demands next week.
"Everything that's been done by the Secretary for the Civil Service and others has been with my complete support and endorsement," Patten said.
Political commentators said the Leung case had highlighted Legco's power to hold the Hong Kong government accountable.
In so doing, it has drawn attention to the sensitive issue of the future relationship between the executive and legislative branches of government in Hong Kong, and created something of a dilemma for Beijing, which has long argued that Legco became too powerful under Patten.
"The irony is that Beijing might find it extremely difficult to discredit Legco for doing the wrong thing now that the Government is being challenged on all fronts," political columnist Chris Yeung wrote in the South China Morning Post.
"But if it gives legislators a pat on the back, it would find itself giving credit to a body which it has decided to scrap on July 1."
The brouhaha over Newt Gingrich's intercepted telephone call has shed light on how easy it is to eavesdrop on cellular calls and how seldom cases are prosecuted -- even though the law is violated daily.
"It's had the chilling effect of reminding us all that anyone at any time could be listening to our most private conversations," Rep. Billy Tauzin, a Louisiana Republican, said of the widely publicized incident involving the House speaker.
Tauzin, who chairs the House of Representatives telecommunications subcommittee, has called for hearings into cellular privacy.
Federal law makes it a crime to intentionally intercept or disclose the contents of a telephone call, regardeless of whether it is over a hard-wired, cellular or cordless phone.
But experts can cite only a handful of cell-phone cases that have drawn publicity. Politicians have been involved.
Justice Department spokesman John Russell said that in the case of cellular calls, the law is "seldom used" and the department "seldom" gets complaints.
For one, people rarely know when they have been overheard on their cell phone. And the complicated law is little known.
In once case, Sen. Charles Robb, a Virginia Democrat, got into hot water in 1991 over an illegal tape recording of a cellular call made by a political rival, Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder. Robb was spared indictment. Four associates pleaded guilty in the case.
Another case in 1990 centered on an intercepted cell-phone conversation involving then-Rep. Bill Sarpalius, a Democrat from Texas.
Tapes and transcripts of the call -- in which Sarpalius spoke with a young woman about a date and a possible job -- were made available to local media. Two unrelated men were later fined about $250 each in connection with the incident.
Why the dearth of legal action?
"Violations of this law are very, very hard to detect. That is why there are so few cases," said Clifford Fishman, a law professor at Catholic University of America in Washington.
"The person whose privacy is invaded usually never hears about it and so does not alert authorities."
What's more, the eavesdroppers usually are not familiar with the people they are monitoring. Penalties generally are light, except in cases involving repeat offenses or use of the information to commit another crime.
The only times a case does seem to arise is when the perpetrator tries to capitalize on the conversation.
"It doesn't come to light unless somebody makes political or commercial use of the information," said Paul Rothstein, a law professor at Georgetown University Law Center in Washington.
Yet experts agree the law is broken frequently -- possibly hundreds or thousands of times a day -- given the availability and use of scanners that can tune in wireless calls. It's estimated that anywhere from 10 million to 20 million scanners are in use nationwide, many able to eavesdrop on cellular calls.
"While the cellular industry may give their customers the illusion of privacy by assuring customers that it is illegal to listen, and that cellular-capable scanners are no longer manufactured or imported into the United States, millions of Americans do listen in," according to Bob Grove, publisher of Monitoring Times Magazine.
Last week, the FBI opened an investigation into the taping and leaking of a telephone conference call between Gingrich and his top lieutenants. The probe came after a Florida couple said they  delivered a tape of the cellular phone conversation to the senior Democrat on the House Ethics Committee.
A transcript of the tape was published in two newspapers two days later, prompting Republican calls for an FBI criminal probe into the source of the leak.
"You're not going to see the law enforced unless it involves a person of rank, such as a politician," said Linus Layne Baker, a Kansas City, Mo. attorney who was fined in the Texas case. "You won't see the media prosecuted either."
One option under study in wake of the Gingrich incident is whether to beef up a law that outlaws the sale, manufacture or imporation of scanners capable of picking up cellular calls.
Asia can expect to see a long-term inflow of money from a group of huge California pension funds now on an eight-day swing through the region, Asian fund managers said last week.
"The very positive thing is they've come to Asia and issued a clean bill of health in that they've pencilled in large amounts that will come here in the next five to 10 years," said Richard Nicholas, managing director at Hambro Pacific Fund Management.
Representatives of seven pension funds with combined assets of $234 billion are scouring the region for investments, taking the opportunity to promote their home region to Asian venture capitalists at the same time.
"This is just an acknowledgment that this region is set for enormous growth and they want to be a part of that," said Christopher Ryan, managing director at HSBC Asset Management in Hong Kong.
Ryan said the fund managers' presence reflects renewed interest in Asia after the slumps of 1994 and 1995.
"We are seeing a growing level of inquiry from the United States," he said. "It would be fair to say the peak of activity was during 1993 but it's building up again, that much is clear."
However, the immediate effect of the visit, which includes Singapore and Taiwan as well as China, will be limited.
William Crist, board president of the California Public Employees Retirement System or CALPERS, said last week that the Shanghai Stock Exchange was too small and opaque to justify investment at this stage.
CALPERS, one of the world's largest pension funds with $107 billion under management, is expected to join other funds opting for private equity stakes in individual projects rather than buying up shares in listed companies.
"We'll see greater interest in private equity funds and while it's not something we find particularly attractive there will probably also be interest in infrastructure-type investments as well," Ryan said.
Nicholas said renewed interest by U.S. pension funds signalled an awareness that Asia was healthier economically than many suspected last year, along with the recognition that regional allocation of global portfolios would reach about 12 percent by the early 2000s.
"The recent broad Southeast Asian slowdown is, we believe, a quite natural early stage better described as growing pains," Nicholas said.
"We see Asia-Pacific as maybe one-third of the way into its emergence as a global trading power which could span 20 to 30 years -- and that's before fully factoring in China or the Indian sub-continent."
Over the past 15 years Asia has grown at an average rate of seven percent compared to an average of less than three percent for the developed Group of Seven industrialised nations.
While Nicholas expects Asia's average growth rate to decline to six percent over the next few years, the region will still offer a higher return than developed nations if one assumes a connection between economic growth and market performance.
However, improved knowledge of individual markets will be required to reap the best returns.
"In terms of stock markets, they are maturing faster, and foreign investors and investment bankers are becoming increasingly educated," Nicholas said.
"In contrast to the earlier bland and broad asset allocation, we believe that in future each market should be analysed on a more individual basis within the context of its own development."
The chief executive of Zellers, a major Canadian retailer, aims to boost sales per square foot by more than a third over three years as the discount chain seeks to regain market leadership from U.S. invader Wal-Mart.
Millard Barron, a former executive at Wal-Mart Inc. - which ousted Zellers as Canada's top discount store chain -- told Reuters in a recent interview he planned to increase sales from C$157 ($117) a square foot for fiscal 1997 ending Jan. 31.
"We are at least a third below where we should be. We should be (C$)225 ($168) to (C$)250 ($187) a square foot and my goal is (that) over the next three years," said Barron, who took the top job at Zellers last September.
Zellers is a unit of Toronto-based Hudson's Bay Co., the owner of Canada's biggest department store chain.
Wood Gundy retail analyst David Brodie called Barron's goal ambitious.
"Wal-Mart has the momentum. These guys (Zellers) don't," said Brodie, who estimated that Wal-Mart had sales of C$220 ($164) a square foot in Canada, a number Barron called "overstated."
Brodie estimated Zellers' market share had fallen to 42 percent since Wal-Mart's arrival in 1994 from about 50 percent. Wal-Mart's Canadian market share was estimated at about 43 percent.
Barron landed the chief executive's job at Zellers at a crucial time. The company's operating profit was halved by the arrival in Canada of Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart, America's biggest retailer.
Zellers' fiscal 1996 operating profit plunged to C$106.7 million($79.8 million) from C$215.6 million ($161.2 million) in 1995.
Barron said his mission was to improve technology and communications, move more staff to the sales floor, pay more attention to rural stores and renovate the chain's 299 outlets.
He did not forecast fiscal 1998 sales, but said Zellers would post fiscal 1997 revenues of about C$3.4 billion ($2.5 billion), versus C$3.5 billion ($2.6 billion) in fiscal 1996.
He said that crucial holiday sales in December jumped by double digits for the first time in three years.
Barron said that Zellers' capital spending would increase to between two and three percent of fiscal 1998 sales. Retailers usually spend one to two percent.
About 20 percent of planned capital spending would be for technological upgrading, with Barron saying Zellers was four years behind other retailers in technology.
"By the end of 1997, we will be as technologically proficient and productive as any retailer in North America," Barron said.
Zellers said Canada would open up to 12 stores this year, expand 10 and update up to 70.
Shareholders are pushing harder for change at WMX Technologies Inc, which said Monday a major investor is proposing that the company hire investment bankers to examine further sales of non-core assets.
Lens Inc, based in Washington, D.C., also has hired an executive recruiter to assemble an alternate slate of nominees for four WMX board seats coming open this year, including WMX chairman Dean Buntrock's seat,  said a Lens spokeswoman.
"The battle lines are being drawn here," said Goldman Sachs industry analyst Barry Mannis.  
WMX, the largest U.S. garbage hauler with $10 billion in annual revenues, has been under investor attack for months. Not only Lens, headed by Robert Monks, but billionaire George Soros and others are among WMX shareholders demanding changes.
The company has responded by repurchasing shares and selling off pieces of its Rust International unit, its stake in Wessex Water Plc and most of its medical waste business. The sales have raised about $1 billion in cash.
Yet WMX's stock price has hardly budged, prompting the activist stakeholders to press harder still for management changes, new directors and more asset sales, analysts said.  
"Management has been moving in this direction and the stock price has responded moderately, but I don't think to anywhere near the level that investors want," Mannis said.
Shares in WMX were off 1/4 at 33-1/2 late Monday, compared to a 24-month high above $36 in early December. A year ago, they were trading in the $30 per share range.
"Between now and the annual meeting (May 9), management has its opportunity to once and for all...show the Street its plan for enhancing shareholder value. If they don't do that, I think investors are going to look at some of the proposals Lens is making," Mannis said.  
Soros Fund Management owns 19.7 million shares of WMX, or nearly four percent of the company, according to CDA/Spectrum.
Lens's stake is reportedly much smaller than Soros's.
The latest proposal from Lens on selling non-core assets contains little new, WMX spokesman Bill Plunkett said.
"The proposal is consistent with the things the company is already aggressively pursuing, essentially affirming our strategy," Plunkett said. "We have other equity investments remaining. We have other businesses that are non-core and we have under-performing businesses.... We have been working with various financial advisers to enhance shareholder value."
Credit Suisse First Boston industry analyst Michael Hoffman said WMX on its own will likely fulfill Soros's and Lens's agenda. "These guys would just like it to happen faster," Hoffman said. WMX has "done a lot of the easier things. Now it gets a little more challenging."
An obvious next step for the company would be to authorize more share buybacks, Mannis said.
WMX could still sell off certain non-U.S. interests, as well as its equity interest in ServiceMaster LP, analysts said. Whether such steps are taken before the annual meeting remains to be seen, but in the meantime, Lens and Soros can be expected to keep the pressure on.
"This is just another volley in the skirmish," said Smith Barney industry analyst Leone Young.
WMX is scheduled to report fourth-quarter financial results in the week of February 3.
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
An Ivory Coast liberalisation study focusing on quality, competition and less bureaucracy will be ready as planned by January 31, according to sources close to reforms.
"Four options have to be reviewed," said one source. "Price stability while making each year self-financing (with no carryovers between years) will be looked at," the source added.
The donor-sponsored study by private British firm Landell Mills Consultants (LMC) would also seek to avoid pitfalls seen in countries such as Cameroon where unfettered liberalisation led to coffee quality problems and loss of premium.
Ivory Coast embarked on a series of coffee and cocoa sector reforms in 1995 as conditions for a three-tranche $150 million World Bank Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan.
Although the guideline farmgate coffee price was cut by 200 CFA a kilo to 500 CFA when the 1996/97 season opened in November, exporters point to continuing low world prices and the need for further support for the sector out of cocoa revenues.
"We are in favour of complete liberalisation but with good quality controls kept in place," said one industry buyer. "The Caistab's role should be limited to a hands-off marketing role giving quality assurance and statistical information."
Coffee exporters expect support for coffee to run at around 100 CFA a kilo, as world prices remain low, until recommended prices are reset or entirely scrapped for 1997/98.
The Caisse de Stabilisation (Caistab) marketing board sets a guide price for farmers whereas once it dictated prices. Donors have already demanded further streamlining of its operations and increased transparency about a shadowy set of costs referred to in accounts as "Delta" costs.
Delta expenditures for 1996/97, which will partly determine stabilisation fund levels for coffee, are due to be set from January when the Caistab gives details of coffee forward sales.
"The problem is that the Caistab has not released any (forward sales) data since October," said one source. "That puts everyone in a very difficult position."
The Delta cost for both coffee and cocoa is budgeted to be largely unchanged in 1996/97 from 53 CFA a kilo in 1995/96.
The Caistab, whose new managing director Yves-Marie Koissy was appointed in September but did not formally take over until October, declined immediate comment on the planned report.
The Caistab employs over 900 people but with its role reduced it is expected to cut staff levels after overruning many budgeted running cost items in 1995/96.
"The real number of employees in unclear," said on source.
The report will also look at how the Caistab can cut marketing margins through competition to below levels in competitor countries.
"Some exporters who were expected to be off the list in 1996/97 for debts were let back in through the window this year," said one source.
Advice for further competition in transportation, quality control and coffee bean hulling is also under review.
Forward sales policy amid volatile world market prices and an increasingly spot-driven world market are also expected to be considered in the LMC report.
Ivory Coast aims to encourage plantation rehabilitation and boost output to closer to 300,000 tonnes a year from a forecast 230,000 tonnes in 1996/97.
The Caistab phased out purchasing centres from 1995/96 to speed up the flow of produce to Ivory Coast's main ports.
It has also ended its monopoly over the import and distribution of collection sacks for coffee upcountry, but provides protection to local manufacturers against cheap imports from Asia.
($1= 542 CFA francs)
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's oil sector has staged its first real comeback by nearly closing the door on a decade of dizzying output declines, but analysts said on Monday that the troubled industry was not yet in the clear.
"The larger declines are over; is that a turnaround? Yes," said Dan Lubash, managing director of Emerging Markets Europe at Merrill Lynch, commenting on 1996 oil production figures.
The State Statistics Committee said Russia's 1996 crude oil output fell two percent on 1995 levels to 293 million tonnes (around 5.86 million barrels per day).
That is Russia's lowest crude oil output rate in nearly three decades.
But the decline is the smallest since Russia -- still the world's third-largest oil producer -- discovered its huge West Siberian reserves and pushed oil output to a peak 570 million tonnes (11.4 million bpd) in 1987.
The story has been a downhill one ever since, and double-digit percentage output declines throughout the late 1980s and early 1990s have left Russia's 1996 output at a meagre 51 percent of 1987's record level.
But the picture, as the 1996 data shows, is getting prettier.
"The fall is finally coming to an end," said Stephen O'Sullivan, associate director of oil and gas at MC Securities in London. "It's not just a flash in the pan like LUKoil -- it's clearly more broad-based."
Analysts say the recovery showed its first real signs in the second quarter of 1996, possibly as Russian producers began to cash in on a world oil price rally and jammed export outlets.
But not all analysts were as sanguine about 1996's results.
"The fact that it almost levelled out this year is significant," said a U.S. oil executive involved in the Petroleum Advisory Forum, a Moscow lobby of foreign oil majors.
"But I don't really think it means a whole lot, because there's a problem with domestic demand and with export capacity. It doesn't make sense for producers to produce as much as they can right now."
Russia's oil firms have limited export options and other domestic industries are recovering more slowly.
Russian gross domestic product fell by six percent in 1996 and industrial output shrank in every sector of the economy to plunge five percent overall, official figures showed.
Declining domestic demand spurred Russian exports outside the Commonwealth of Independent States to rise by five percent in the first 11 months of 1996 to 92.8 million tonnes.
But analysts say Russia's increasingly hungry tax-man has eaten up a large portion of the extra export earnings, leaving Russia's newly-privatised companies with little to reinvest.
Still, the export boom has spurred Russia's 13 or so vertically-integrated oil companies' appetite for growth, and both Lubash and O'Sullivan said domestic crude oil demand might pick up slightly next year.
"Any arrest in decline must be heartening and what we must be looking to see is some growth," said Martin Cocker, a partner in Ernst &amp; Young's World Energy Group unit in Moscow.
But Russia's oil companies, most heading into their third or fourth years as restructured, privatised companies, will have problems in breaking completely free of Russia's economic woes.
"It's all a function of when domestic industry turns around," said the U.S. executive. "Producers and refiners both have an incentive to export and will for quite some time."
Russian cocoa importers hope business will be sweeter this year, but increasing competition from Western chocolate bars and a lack of precise data on buying patterns have clouded the market, trade sources said on Monday.
"The general tendency is one of growth -- we'll be buying more cocoa this year," said Yuri Granilin, supplies director at the large Babayevsky confectionery plant in Moscow. He declined to give figures.
Domestic producers are competing against a flood of Western ready-made chocolates, with the latter in an upward trend as domestic firms struggle to find recipes for success in a market economy.
The State Statistics Committee said imports of cocoa from outside the Commonwealth of Independent States edged higher to 47,700 tonnes in the first eleven months of 1996 from 47,000 tonnes over the same 1995 period.
The International Cocoa Organisation puts Russian grindings over 1995/96 flat at 75,000 tonnes for the third marketing year in a row.
One Nestle source said Russia's ready-made chocolate products market would grow 15-20 percent this year but that overall growth in cocoa imports was unlikely.
Alexander Pavlov, head of the Agriculture Ministry's food industry department, said Russia's 1996 imports of cocoa and cocoa derivatives slipped eight percent year-on-year.
"I don't think we'll see much growth this year," he said, putting imports of cocoa beans, liquor, powder, butter, grated chocolate and semi-fabricated whole cocoa bars at 130,000 tonnes, including about 75,000 tonnes of beans.
But he cautioned that figures were difficult to pin down, since some imports do not show up in the official statistics and producers had stocks left over from 1995.
Pavlov estimated that imported ready-made chocolate products comprise 10-15 percent of the domestic market for such goods.
Companies like Nestle SA, Switzerland's Andre et Cie, Cargill Inc of the United States and E.D. &amp; F. Man International Inc are suppliers to Russian confectionery plants, which now buy direct instead of going through the Soviet-era agencies that bought about 100,000 tonnes of beans a year.
"The Russian market is quite different from the U.S. and European ones," said a senior source at a major Western confectionery. "It's a question of taste," the source said, adding that three times as many Russians prefer dark chocolates to those who prefer milk chocolates.
Individual chocolate bars are a relative novelty in Russia and are having to work hard to compete with the traditional large, block chocolates, wafers and biscuits Russians love.
One source guessed the size of the bar market at 100,000 tonnes a year, but cautioned this was a rough estimate.
The market for chocolate-covered wafers and biscuits could be three times higher, while the market for small chocolate candies was possibly four times greater, the source said.
Bars, packaged for on-the-go consumption, are a relative novelty to Russians, who traditionally treat chocolate as a treat to be consumed at home or on special occasions.
"Russians are into plain chocolate; these fillings, nuts and souffles the Europeans love aren't our tradition," Pavlov said.
Moscow grocery stores are filled with imported and domestic chocolates, but the abundance does not extend to the rest of this vast country to the same extent.
Trade sources said the Russian market was in such a state of change that Western confectioners were keener to launch new brands rather than increase an existing brand's market share.
"Everything is changing really quickly," said one source.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
China said on Monday it would support Hong Kong's efforts to expand foreign trade relations after the territory returns to Beijing's control in mid-1997 provided such ties did not undermine China's sovereignty.
"We stand ready to support Hong Kong in its efforts to expand foreign economic and trade relations... provided the state's sovereignty and interests are not undermined," the Xinhua news agency quoted An Min, vice-minister of foreign trade, as saying.
Hong Kong would pursue a free trade policy to allow the free flow of commodities and capital after China resumes control of the British colony at midnight on June 30, An said.
"We will fully support a high degree of freedom and openness in Hong Kong's status as an ideal arena for concentration and flow of international capital," he said.
Hong Kong would be allowed to formulate its own economic and trade regulations as long as such policies conformed with the Basic Law, the territory's 1990 mini-constitution promulgated by Beijing, An said.
"All the existing laws will remain in force, except those provisions that contradict the Basic Law or those requiring amendments by the Hong Kong SAR (Special Administrative Region) legislature," An said.
A separate report in the China Taxation News said Hong Kong businessmen would retain preferential tax status for investments on the Chinese mainland.
"After 1997, China's tax laws will not apply to the Special Administrative Region and Hong Kong compatriots will be able to continue to receive the preferential treatment given to foreign investors," the newspaper said.
China gives foreign investors lower tax rates than Chinese companies and treats businessmen from Hong Kong as foreigners.
Foreign businessmen, however, are made to pay a whole range of fees that are not required from local businessmen. They also must hire employees through special government agencies, boosting their operating costs.
The newspaper did not say whether these fees would still apply to Hong Kong businesses after the transfer of power.
Chinese firms would not enjoy any priveleges when investing in Hong Kong after the handover, An said, adding that mainland companies would be treated as overseas investors.
"Chinese enterprises shall follow internationally prevailing economic and trade rules and local 'rules of the game'," An said.
"The principles we are pursuing are fair competition, vigorous development, operation guided by law and enriching Hong Kong," he said.
China hit a raw nerve in Hong Kong on Monday when it announced proposals to abolish a series of laws on democratic elections and civil liberties when it resumes sovereignty.
Beijing has tried to reassure Hong Kong's people they will enjoy considerable autonomy in running their affairs and maintain their free-wheeling capitalist way of life under the doctrine "one country, two systems".
China has said it will dismantle the territory's elected legislature and has appointed a provisional one to take its place on July 1.
China has launched its first survey of its hundreds of millions of rural residents to gauge the impact of nearly two decades of economic reforms on the country's agricultural sector, officials said on Monday.
Since January 1, an army of six million officials and interviewers has been mobilised to canvass an estimated 230 million households in towns and villages throughout China's countryside, Shao Jianmin, deputy leader of the Beijing Rural Survey Team, said in an interview.
The survey is intended to gather more detailed data on rural areas, which have been radically transformed by the sweeping market-oriented agricultural and economic reforms launched by paramount leader Deng Xiaoping in the late 1970s, he said.
In Nankou township to the north of Beijing, a band of women interviewers visited the homes of local residents on Monday to ask about the size of their families, educational levels, what crops they grew and the occupations of family members.
Deng's reforms have encouraged private enterprise and rural industry, creating huge changes in the countryside, officials said.
"We don't know how people in the agricultural sector are making money," said interviewer Xie Fang.
Official statistics show 75 percent of China's 1.2 billion people are farmers but officials say this figure is misleading because it includes many former farmers who have since become migrant labourers or rural factory hands.
China's farmers have increasingly abandoned their ploughs to take up more lucrative jobs in small-scale township industries or to seek their fortunes in cities.
"After this survey the country will have an overall understanding of how many households are engaged in farming, how many are in township enterprises and how many have gone into business for themselves," Xie said.
"This is the first national rural census to be held since Liberation (the 1949 communist takeover)," Shao said.
"We will be going to every single household," he said.
The survey would take about one month to complete, he said, adding that the findings would be published at the end of this year and throughout next year.
The survey would cover the numbers and types of farming and non-farming rural firms as well as details of land use.
It would also gather data on infrastructure in villages, towns and counties, Shao said.
"The census will better serve national macro-economic policy and provide more accurate statistics for rural management," he said.
China must feed one-fifth of the world's people on just seven percent of its arable land but Beijing says a lack of accurate data about cropland has hindered efforts to stop the misuse and erosion of land and boost grain production.
The survey may clear up confusion over how much arable land China has. Last December, officials said the amount had been miscalculated, and they raised the estimated total to 147 million hectares (363 million acres) compared with 133.4 million (328 million acres) just six months earlier.
China has forecast a record grain output of 480 million tonnes last year, up from 1995's 466 million tonnes, a record at the time.
Survey authorities have launched a propaganda blitz to urge farmers to cooperate for the good of the nation, Shao said.
"They started broadcasts about it in December 1996," said Shen Jiucai, a 59-year-old gatekeeper and part-time farmer in Nankou. "This will be of great use and spur on agricultural development."
Microsoft Corp's share price rose to recored levels Monday despite a warnings by the software giant of slowing growth in fiscal 1998.
Microsoft, which reported "blowout" second quarter results on Friday, was up 4-3/4 at 91-7/8 and sparked a broad rally on Nasdaq, where it was the most active issue with nearly 15 million shares changing hands.
After the market closed Friday the company reported second-quarter earnings of $0.57 a share, up from $0.45 a year earlier and easily surpassing a consensus estimate of $0.51.  
"They had a great quarter," said Frank Michnoff of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "(And) the outlook for the next two quarters looks very good; they said so themselves -- uncharacteristically."
More characteristic were comments by Microsoft executives in the earnings statement and a conference call with analysts afterward: They warned of a slowdown in growth in fiscal 1998, which begins July 1.
Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown even went so far as to question the high valuation of the company's stock.  
In a comment worthy of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, Brown said Microsoft's high price-to-earnings multiple was a "cause for curiosity."
But while Piper Jaffray downgraded the stock to hold from buy, based on its 100 percent increase over the past year, few investors heeded the warning.
"They do that every year," Michnoff said, referring to Microsoft's conservative forecasts. "It's a bit like the boy who cried wolf. People are just not believing it."
Most analysts who follow Microsoft raised their earnings estimates for the company.  
First Call, which tracks estimates, said a consensus of 19 analysts surveyed today was that the Redmond, Wash.-based company would earn $2.33 a share for fiscal 1997, ending June 30, up from a previous consensus was $2.07. The company earned $1.72 a share in fiscal 1996.
For fiscal 1998, analysts now see the company earning $2.71 a share, up from a previous consensus of $2.48.
Analysts say fiscal 1998 will be a year of tough comparisons for Microsoft after the 1995 introduction of the Windows 95 operating system, last year's upgrade of Windows NT, and this year's launch of the Office 97 application upgrade.  
While Microsoft plans an upgrade to Windows 95 more tightly integrated to its Internet browser, it is unlikely to derive the benefits of another price increase or significant further operating cost reductions, analysts said.
"I think that Microsoft does have a lot of hurdles to get over," said Rob Owens of Pacific Crest Securities, who calls the stock "fairly valued" at its current level of more than 30 times fiscal 1998 earnings.
But analyst Scott McAdams of Ragen MacKenzie said investors are happy to pay a premium for a company that dominates one of the biggest growth industries and consistently surpasses Wall Street expectations.
"They've delivered consistent earnings, and Wall Street hates ugly surprises," he said.
Analyst David Readerman of Montgomery Securities said Microsoft would like to slow the meteoric rise in its stock price, if only to meet the challenge of providing enough shares to fulfill employee stock options.
"Yet it's difficult, with such a compelling long-term growth story, to keep a great stock down," he said in a published comment.
((-- Seattle Bureau 206-386-4848))
World-wide Australian transport group TNT Ltd reported another annual profit slump on Wednesday, but promised the sale of its troubled airline and other reforms would produce strong profit growth in current year.
"We haven't got any numbers, but it should be quite strong relative to the position we're starting from," TNT managing director David Mortimer said of prospective profit growth, in an interview with Reuters.  
TNT's net profit for the year to June 30 fell to A$9.84 million (US$7.79 million) from A$40.01 million in 1994/95 and A$105.05 million in 1993/94.
Mortimer said a sharp drop profits from Australia's Ansett Airlines, 50 percent owned by TNT, and losses from its Brazilian operations and local general freight business offset good revenue growth in TNT's core operations.
He said profits from these core activities of domestic and international time sensitive freight and logistics had grown 48.7 percent to A$165.3 million in 1995/96.  
TNT had moved to excise these loss-making units and focus on profitable core activities, he said.
"We've dealt with the (Australian) LCL (Less Than Container Load) business -- that's been closed, and we've sold Brazil," he said.
"What's the saying ... when in doubt shoot it or fix it."
TNT would also look to sell other unprofitable non-core businesses, Mortimer said.
"We've got other non-core activities and to the extent that they don't perform then they will be vulnerable to sale," he said.  
"The inconsistency in our results has come from these fringe activities ... it's that volatility around the earnings base that says we have to concentrate on core activities and get out of the non-core 'riff-raff' if you like," he said.
TNT announced earlier this week the finalisation of plans to sell its stake in Ansett to Air New Zealand Ltd for cash receipts of A$325 million. The other 50 percent of Ansett is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd.  
TNT's remaining non-core activities include an airline leasing company jointly owned with News Corp, some shipping operations between New Zealand and Australia, a mono-rail in Sydney and some information technology assets.
Mortimer would not single out any as potential immediate sale prospects, but said they were vulnerable while they were not making profits.
He said the airline leasing firm, Ansett Worldwide, needed to have its capital base restructured before it could be sold.  
Shareholders however took the profit slump in their stride, having actually forecast a slight loss, rather than a slight profit.
Net profit before abnormals, but after preference dividends, fell to A$0.6 million from A$38.48 million in 1994/95.
Analysts had expected a pre-abnormal, post preferences loss of between A$4 million and A$22 million.
TNT's shares closed up three cents at A$1.47.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
The Toronto Stock Exchange snapped a seven-session winning streak to close softer on Monday, depressed by weak gold stocks.
The TSE's key 300 Composite Index lost 24.90 points to end at 6113.90 points, in turnover of 104 million shares worth C$1.58 billion.
"We had a really nice seven-day rally," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie. "You're bound to have some kind of correction."
Gold bullion prices tumbled today in both London and New York, pushing Toronto's heavily weighted gold stocks into weaker territory. Some U.S. traders were off for the U.S. Martin Luther King holiday.
Despite weaker golds, Toronto stocks did not fall that far. "Actually we didn't have such a bad day today," said Maison Placements Canada president John Ing.
Investors are nervously awaiting comments by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan on Tuesday, Beattie said. "The market's on edge.
Greenspan is scheduled to testify on the state of the economy to a Senate Budget committee hearing starting at 1000 EST/1500 GMT.
All of Toronto's 14 sub-indices lost ground except for oil and gas. The weak side was led by a 1.7 percent drop in golds, followed by media, transportation and forestry products.
Declining issues outnumbered advances 528 to 474, with 291 stocks unchanged.
Gold stocks were active today. Bre-X Mineral Ltd. fell 1.40 to 23.00 on over 1.8 million shares. Indonesia's Mines and Energy Minister Ida Bagus Sudjana earlier today gave Bre-X and potential partner Barrick Gold Corp. one month to settle with their local partners in the huge Busang gold find.
Barrick's shares dipped 0.75 to 36.10.
Golden Rule Resources Ltd. closed up 0.95 to 9.35 after earlier hitting a 52-week high of 9.65.
Oil firm Canadian Occidental Petroleum Ltd. rose 0.30 to 25.60, topping Toronto's most active list on volume of nearly four million shares.
Microsoft Corp.'s share price rose to record levels Monday despite a warning by the software giant of slowing growth in fiscal 1998.
Microsoft, which reported "blowout" second-quarter results on Friday, closed at $90.75, up $3.625, and sparked a broad rally on Nasdaq, where it was the most active issue, with more than 18 million shares changing hands.
After the market closed Friday,the company reported second-quarter earnings equal to 57 cents a share, up from 45 cents a year earlier and easily surpassing a consensus estimate of 51 cents.
"They had a great quarter," said Frank Michnoff of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "(And) the outlook for the next two quarters looks very good; they said so themselves -- uncharacteristically."
More characteristic were comments by Microsoft executives in the earnings statement and a conference call with analysts afterward; they warned of a slowdown in growth in fiscal 1998, which begins July 1.
Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown even went so far as to question the high valuation of the company's stock.
In a comment worthy of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, Brown said Microsoft's high price-to-earnings multiple was a "cause for curiosity."
But while Piper Jaffray downgraded the stock to hold from buy, based on its 100 percent increase over the past year, few investors heeded the warning.
"They do that every year," Michnoff said, referring to Microsoft's conservative forecasts. "It's a bit like the boy who cried wolf. People are just not believing it."
Most analysts who follow Microsoft raised their earnings estimates for the company.
First Call, which tracks estimates, said a consensus of 19 analysts was that the Redmond, Wash.-based company would earn $2.33 a share for fiscal 1997, ending June 30, up from a previous consensus was $2.07. The company earned $1.72 a share in fiscal 1996.
For fiscal 1998, analysts see the company earning $2.71 a share, up from a previous consensus of $2.48.
Analysts say fiscal 1998 will be a year of tough comparisons for Microsoft after the 1995 introduction of the Windows 95 operating system, last year's upgrade of Windows NT and this year's launch of the Office 97 application upgrade.
While Microsoft plans an upgrade to Windows 95 more tightly integrated with its Internet browser, it is unlikely to derive the benefits of another price increase or significant further operating cost reductions, analysts said.
"I think that Microsoft does have a lot of hurdles to get over," said Rob Owens of Pacific Crest Securities, who calls the stock "fairly valued" at its current level of more than 30 times fiscal 1998 earnings.
But analyst Scott McAdams of Ragen MacKenzie said investors are happy to pay a premium for a company that dominates one of the biggest growth industries and consistently surpasses Wall Street expectations.
"They've delivered consistent earnings, and Wall Street hates ugly surprises," he said.
David Readerman of Montgomery Securities said Microsoft would like to slow the meteoric rise in its stock price, if only to meet the challenge of providing enough shares to fulfil employee stock options.
"Yet it's difficult, with such a compelling long-term growth story, to keep a great stock down," he said.
The chief executive of Zellers, a major Canadian retailer, aims to boost sales per square  foot by more than a third over three years as the discount chain seeks to regain market  leadership from U.S. invader Wal-Mart.
Millard Barron, a former executive at Wal-Mart Inc. - which ousted Zellers as Canada's top discount store chain --  told Reuters in a recent interview he planned to increasesales from  C$157 ($117) a square foot for fiscal 1997 ending Jan. 31.
"We are at least a third below where we should be. We should be (C$)225 ($168) to (C$)250 ($187) a square foot and my goal is (that) over the next three years," said Barron, who took the top job at Zellers last September.
Zellers is a unit of Toronto-based Hudson's Bay Co.,  the owner of Canada's biggest department store chain.
Wood Gundy retail analyst David Brodie called Barron's goal ambitious.
"Wal-Mart has the momentum. These guys (Zellers) don't," said Brodie, who estimated that Wal-Mart had sales of C$220 ($164) a square foot in Canada, a number Barron called "overstated."
Brodie estimated Zellers' market share had fallen to 42 percent since Wal-Mart's arrival in 1994 from about 50 percent. Wal-Mart's Canadian market share was estimated at about 43 percent.
Barron landed the chief executive's job at Zellers at a crucial time. The commpany's operating profit was halved by the arrival in Canada of Bentonville, Ark.-bbased Wal-Mart, America's bigg 536870913 1702065184
Zellers' fiscal 1996 operating profit plunged to C$106.7 million($79.8 million) ffrom C$215.6 million ($161.2 million) in 1995.
Barron said his mission was to improve technology and communications, move more staff to the sales floor, pay more attention to rural stores and renovate the chain's 299 outlets.
He did not forecast fiscal 1998 sales, but said Zellers would post fiscal 1997 revenues of about C$3.4 billion ($2.5 billion), versus C$3.5 billion ($2.6 billion) in fiscal 1996.
He said that crucial holiday sales in December jumped by double digits for the first time in three years.
Barron said that Zellers' capital spending would increase to between two and three percent of fiscal 1998 sales. Retailers usually spend one to two percent.
About 20 percent of planned capital spending would be for technological upgrading, with Barron saying Zellers was four years behind other retailers in technology.
"By the end of 1997, we will be as technologically proficient and productive as any retailer in North America," Barron said.
Zellers said Canada would open up to 12 stores this year, expand 10 and update up to 70.
Eurotunnel Plc, the debt-laden Channel Tunnel operator, pledged on Monday to recover from the public relations disaster which followed last November's tunnel fire and said it expected to restore lost market share in 1997.
Speaking from Eurotunnel's Folkestone base in England, Patrick Ponsolle, chairman, outlined the group's review of 1996 with an update on sales and the debt refinancing in the aftermath of the fire which caused a partial shutdown of services in the key Christmas period.
Ponsolle assured investors that the financial fallout from last November's fire would not hit its debt rescue plan clinched in October or derail long-term growth.
"The board...believes that the November fire should not have any significant effect on the long-term financial performance of the company, nor will there be any need to review the financial restructuring plan," said Eurotunnel in a statement.
The shareholder meeting to approve the debt plan has been delayed to June, when all tunnel services resume.
Eurotunnel said its banking syndicate had taken the opportunity of the delay to the meeting to ask the remaining syndicate of bankers to extend the debt standstill arrangement to December.
Richard Hannah, analyst at UBS, said "The fact that the refinancing will not have to be restructured is the key message for investors."
Eurotunnel also provided evidence of its sales surviving last year's fire, with passenger numbers sharply ahead and an "encouraging" outlook for 1997.
Ponsolle told the Folkestone press briefing that revenues in the fourth quarter of 1997 were expected to be "substantially higher" than the same 1996 period, making him "cautiously optimistic" for 1998.
The embattled Anglo-French group which recently restructured near to nine billion pounds in debt, said its efforts to claw back lost sales coupled with cutbacks in cross-Channel capacity by the ferry companies would fuel the rise in revenues.
In the first major trading review since the fire, the group reported that unaudited estimated turnover for 1996 was 450 million pounds ($752.5 million), up from 300 million in 1995.
The group said the sales growth was achieved "despite a substantial loss of revenue in the last seven weeks (of 1996)."
Thirteen million passengers travelled through the tunnel last year by the Le Shuttle car service or the Eurostar passenger trains, up from eight million the previous year.
Eurotunnel said once full services resumed in June it should be able to increase its market share in the second half.
"This market share should be comparable to, if not higher than, autumn 1996, and revenues at the end of this year should be higher than at the end of 1996," it said.
"As expected, Eurotunnel has provided a morale booster," added UBS' Hannah. Sales growth was in line with expectations.
Eurotunnel sought to stress that no damage had been done to consumer confidence by publishing the results of a commissioned Gallup survey which found 77 percent of French questioned and 68 percent of British believed the tunnel was safe.
Looking at a breakdown of the latest Eurotunnel traffic data, Eurostar increased passenger numbers by 67 percent to 4.86 million for the full year and by 69 percent for the 11 months up to the November fire which led to a temporary closure.
Le Shuttle car tourist traffic rose 70 percent to 2.07 million cars in 1996, with coach traffic up 148 percent to 57,692 coaches. Le Shuttle freight traffic was up 33 percent to 519,003 trucks for the year.
Eurotunnel shares edged up two pence to 78 in London and rose 20 centimes to 7.10 francs in Paris.
China's Zhenhai Refining &amp; Chemical Co Ltd, whose stock price has been lashed by the U.S. missile attacks on Iraq, said investors had over-reacted and assured it was able to overcome present difficulties.
"I would call the reaction in (the stock market in) Hong Kong merely psychological...there is minimal real impact, and if crude prices are high now we just would not buy," said a senior manager in Ningbo, eastern Zhejiang province, by telephone.
The Chinese oil refiner's share price in Hong Kong crashed almost 10 percent to HK$2.05 intraday on Tuesday before closing at HK$2.075, down 20 cents on investor fears that the refinery would be hit badly by the sharp hike in crude oil prices.
It regained only partway on Wednesday to close at HK$2.175.
After the first U.S. missile attack on Tuesday, oil prices hit their highest level since Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, and investors feared Zhenhai - which runs predominantly on imported crudes and sells most of its output into China's domestic markets where product prices are strictly fixed - would be hit.  
But the eight-million tonne per year refiner, which had stopped buying crude oil cargoes since the start of the Iraqi crisis on Monday, said its crude stock-pile would help tide over high prices, at least in the short term.
"It's very hard to say how prices will go, but for now, we have our two months worth of crude stock-pile," he said.
The refiner, China's third largest, imports up to 55 percent of its crude needs from overseas, and covers 25 percent from China's offshore production.
Twenty percent is supplied from China's highly subsidised domestic onshore production, the manager said.
While 30 percent of Zhenhai's output is sold into international markets, the volume would be increased should high crude oil prices persist, he said.
"There is no limit on how much we can export, so we can push it up to cover our higher costs," he said.
-- HONG KONG NEWSROOM (852) 2843-6441
Fallout from a scandal involving late allocation of trades at Jardine Fleming was still attracting attention in Hong Kong on Wednesday, but the company escaped further sanctions and said business continued as usual.
"We've had some redemptions. We've also had some subscriptions," a company spokesman told Reuters. "The business pattern is very much as usual."
Jardine Fleming retained its seat on the executive committee of the domestic industry association, the Hong Kong Investment Funds Association, despite media reports that moves were afoot to knock the company off the committee.
In election results released on Wednesday, Jardine Fleming continues as one of 12 member firms with a representative on the board, but the association stressed the election began in early August and ballots were collected by mail.
"There isn't any particular relationship (between the elections and the scandal)," an association spokeswoman said.
Jardine Fleming did, however, earn a stinging rebuke from the group, which announced a new industry drive towards best professional practice.
"It was felt that some aspects of Jardine Fleming's past practices were unacceptable to the industry's general standards of professional integrity," said Andrew Lo of INVESCO, who was reappointed chairman of the association for another year.
Regulators hit Jardine Fleming with heavy fines and revoked the licence of its London-based fund management company, along with the registration of the company's chief executive following last week's revelations of late allocation of trades by a senior fund manager. Some of the trades involved the fund manager's personal trading account.
Lo said a new working group will work with the British colony's chief markets regulator, the Securities and Futures Commission, to establish a code of practice for personal account dealing by its members.
"What the HKIFA must do is to learn from this experience," said Lo, who described the punishment meted out to Jardines as "appropriate" and "severe."
The association will also work with the SFC to set up guidelines for internal controls.
"In light of the concerns on the impact of the case on the industry, we have resolved to work even harder to uphold the highest level of professional integrity in our industry," Lo said. "To be worthy of the high fiduciary trust placed on it, the investment management industry must be able to demonstrate to investors a clean and fair environment."
Supermarket group Budgens Plc said on Monday that it expected to open 10 new wholly-owned stores in 1997, as well as continuing to build up its presence on petrol station forecourts.
In a telephone interview with Reuters after the company announced an 18 percent rise in first-half pretax profit to 5.04 million stg, chief executive John von Spreckelsen said the group continued to be "well-placed as a small operator in this niche where we are complementary to the superstores and the discounters."  
"The successful companies will continue to take market share from the less successful ones," he said.
Budgens saw sales rise by 8.1 percent to 183.0 million stg in the 28 weeks to November, while on a like-for-like basis they climbed 4.5 percent.
Spreckelsen said that sales growth in the run-up to Christmas slowed down as large stores pulled in trade, but had picked up again in January.
Shares in the group were virtually unchanged after the results, trading just 1/4 pence higher at 46 1/2 in early dealing on Monday.
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Japanese banks, already groaning under problem loans, are dangerously exposed to the volatile Tokyo stock market and a further drop in the market may finally force them into a blood-letting reorganisation, analysts say.
They say that if the weaker banks are to survive, they must trim the size of their less-profitable assets, including those overseas, cut their stock portfolios and reduce the number of their employees.
"Weak banks may be thrown into the sector-wide reorganisation unless they take a serious look at reality -- that the market is urging an aggressive restructuring, even if they have to cut the number of employees," said Yushiro Ikuyo, first vice-president at Smith Barney International Inc.
"If share prices in (weak) banks fall to very cheap levels, it might be easier for big banks to bail out those weaker banks through cheap mergers," he said.
Market sources said the recent Japanese share price plunge has been led by active selling of shares in the banking sector, which represent one-quarter of the Tokyo Stock Exchange's market capitalisation.
On Monday, the key Nikkei average of 225 leading shares closed down 609.70 points, or 3.37 percent, at 17,480.24.
Even though the market recovered slightly last week, the Nikkei is still down close to 2,000 points since the beginning of this year on worries about the economy and a lack of government measures to prop it up.
Japanese banks have traditionally held large chunks of shares in other companies, many of them customers. In the past, the unrealised profits on these holdings have helped burnish the banks' balance sheets and have provided a useful way of getting some of their problem loans off their books.
But the failure to tackle the problem more aggressively has in turn fueled scepticism about the soundness of the Japanese banking system, triggering more selloffs in the stock market, analysts said.
The analysts said banks should try to raise their profitability by focusing on specialised business fields, by developing new financial instruments and by lending to smaller firms with prospects for future growth.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre, said: "To convince investors, banks must take the extra step to restructure, but they have made no such effort so far."
In the three business years to the end of March 1996, Japan's then top 21 banks used 8.01 trillion yen ($68.4 billion) in net capital gains from the sale of equities to help dispose of 18.96 trillion yen ($162 billion) of property-related problem loans, a legacy from the late 1980s economic "bubble" era of inflated asset prices.
But the top banks still had 17.4 trillion yen ($148 billion) of problem loans at the end of last September, the Finance Ministry said.
Moody's Investors Service said on Friday that the sharp fall in Japanese shares will affect financially weak banks.
Moody's said while it is confident Japanese authorities will keep the top 20 banks from failing in the short term, it is concerned about a growing gap between the bailout cost and the limited resources available for the protection of depositors and senior debt holders. ($1=117 yen)
Taking mortgage-backed securities as a model, trucking giant Ryder System Inc is bargaining with a half dozen banks on possibly creating securitized financial offerings on as many as 15,000 leased trucks a year.
A first offering of securitized truck leases could come as early as March and all offerings could total as much as $700 million by year-end 1997, Ryder chief financial officer Ed Huston told Reuters.  
"We're thinking of taking a package of leases and selling them," Huston said. "It's a variation of mortgage-backed securities."
Huston said no deal, which would be an innovation among trucking services groups, had been agreed and warned an unforseeen issue could block the plan.
"We've talked to a number of banks and we are on the verge of selecting one," he said.
He declined to identify which banks Ryder was considering. Citicorp is currently a leading finance source for Ryder, Huston said.  
Ryder late Monday announced it would take a $215 million pre-tax charge against fourth-quarter and full-1996 results to pay for a restructuring, early-retirment and layoffs. The moves affect some 2,100 people and should yield savings in 1997 of $75 million for Ryder and $150 million annually afterwards, Huston said.
The charge was bigger than Wall Street expected, Merrill Lynch analyst Jeff Kauffman said.
"It reflects a conviction by management to change things .... Shareholders really want to see some changes and some of them are losing faith in the story. The onus has been put on management to deliver results," he said.
"We are encouraged by their conviction. They seem to be in earnest," Kauffman said.  
Ryder, which last year agreed to sell its consumer-truck rental operations, now buys about 25,000 each year. Some 15,000 of those would be suitable for lease-backed securitization, Huston said.
Ryder, he said, may be able to free equity by the lease-backed offerings and get lower costs because lease-backed offerings typically get better ratings than company debt instruments.
Ryder now has single A and A- ratings on its debt and might secure a triple A rating on its lease-back offerings, Huston said.
Shares of Ryder were up 3/4 to 29-1/8.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013.
Former Morgan Grenfell Asset Management (MGAM) star fund manager Nicola Horlick continued her battle against her ex-employer on Tuesday but, after a meeting with her lawyer, said her chances of being reinstated were slim.
"Reinstatement doesn't seem very likely," she told Reuters.
Horlick is waging a campaign for reinstatement or compensation from the firm from which she resigned in a blaze of publicity last week after allegations that she planned to defect and poach some of her colleagues.
But so far MGAM, and its parent company Deutsche Morgan Grenfell (DMG), have remained deaf to her pleas.
Horlick met her lawyer John Farr of law firm Herbert Smith again on Tuesday and although her advisers hinted it was far too early to talk of legal action against DMG, this has not been ruled out by Horlick's camp.
The advisers indicated an early resolution of the dispute was unlikely and could take several weeks as Deutsche and MGAM had still to complete an internal inquiry into the affair.
"It will take several days, if not weeks, I should think," one adviser said.
Despite indications that discussions took place on Tuesday between Farr and DMG's legal representatives, a DMG spokesman denied there had been further contact.
The bank is sticking firmly to its guns in the row with the 35-year-old mother of five, one of London's most prominent fund managers.
It says Horlick, having been promoted to the rank of managing director, was suspended just days later for "soliciting staff" to join a rival firm and then resigned her position.
The plot has thickened amid unconfirmed allegations that this was a prelude to a takeover of MGAM's pension fund business by Dutch bank ABN AMRO.
ABN AMRO declined to comment on the latest reports but has already denied having tried to poach Horlick and her team.
On Tuesday, however, the Dutch bank acknowledged it would be interested in buying a large British fund manager and its global asset management director Jan Vroegop told Reuters it would like to make "big steps" in London funds management.
Horlick continues to deny allegations that she was leading a breakaway group.
DMG's line is that Horlick will not be reinstated and that there will be no compensation because she had resigned. DMG's parent Deutsche Bank also said late Monday that it did not expect to go to court with Horlick.
Deutsche board member Rolf Breuer, who is poised to take over the helm of Deutsche in May from Hilmar Kopper, said: "The facts are clear. Mrs Horlick inflicted damage on the bank with her attempt to poach staff and then resigned."
Meanwhile, differing versions of what led up to her suspension continued to trickle out.
British newspaper reports said ABN AMRO was involved with Horlick in planning to fund a management buyout of the 18 billion pounds ($30 billion) pension fund business which Horlick headed.
They said ABN ARMO planned to recruit Horlick and her team and then to offer to buy the residue from Morgan Grenfell for a reported 385 million pounds.
Horlick's colleagues were reported to have been unconvinced by the merits of ABN's alleged plan to poach the team, not least because one of the team's key aims had been to have Horlick promoted to a more influential position within MGAM. Once this happened it removed a key complaint against top management.
MGAM has had a troubled time since the sacking of fund manager Peter Young last September after irregularities came to light in three of the group's funds, hitting staff morale and also rattling clients.
Young has denied any criminal activity and is being investigated by Britain's Serious Fraud Office.
So far no clients have withdrawn their business from MGAM as a result of the Horlick affair. However, several major clients have expressed their concern and said they would be reviewing their relationship with the firm. ($1=.6021 Pound)
China said on Tuesday it had drawn a pledge from Guatemala not to support Taiwan's bid to enter the United Nations, winning a round in its campaign to isolate the island on the world stage.
Guatemala had promised to abide by a U.N. resolution stating there was only one China and that Beijing was the sole legal representative of China, Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a regular news briefing.
"They pledged to respect the provisions of Resolution 2758 of the General Assembly and to use it as a guide to relevant actions in the United Nations," Shen said.
"According to this resolution, Guatemala cannot support Taiwan's actions to regain entry to the United Nations," Shen told reporters.
With China voting in favour, the U.N. Security Council on Monday approved the dispatch of 155 U.N. military observers to monitor peace accords in Guatemala that ended three decades of civil war in the Central American nation.
China had vetoed a similar resolution on January 10 because of Guatemala's ties to Taiwan, which Beijing views as a rebel province not entitled to diplomatic relations.
The 14 other Security Council members all supported sending the peacekeepers to Guatemala but a negative vote by China, one of five permanent council members with veto power, killed the three-month mission.
China and Guatemala had held several rounds of negotiations at the United Nations to seek a solution to the impasse, Shen said.
"Guatemala indicated it realised the gravity and sensitivity of the Taiwan issue and showed a willingness to take a positive approach," Shen said.
"This has borne great fruit for us," Shen said in a reference to Beijing's diplomatic coup in eroding some of the support Taiwan can muster for its U.N. bid from among its few remaining diplomatic allies.
Guatemala is among some 30 nations, mostly from Africa and Central America, that officially recognise Taipei instead of Beijing. Taiwan has doled out generous amounts of aid to these countries.
Taiwan's allies have co-sponsored an annual, unsuccessful resolution aimed at regaining U.N. membership for the island, which lost its seat in the world body to the People's Republic of China in 1971. Taiwan's campaign sends Beijing into a fury.
Taiwan and China have been arch rivals since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
Taiwan says it is committed to eventual reunification but Beijing accuses Taipei of secretly working for independence and has moved to block the island's drive to gain more international recognition.
Guatemalan officials say they have not broken off diplomatic relations with Taiwan, although China had never requested they do so.
Diplomats said Beijing had also demanded a public apology from Guatemala for inviting Taiwan's foreign minister to the December 29 peace signing ceremonies. Guatemala has refused.
The U.N. mission will send 155 military observers to Guatemala for three months to monitor U.N.-brokered peace accords aimed at cutting the numbers of government troops and disarming guerrillas.
The peace process was to have begun later this week and be monitored by the military observers, who will now take weeks longer to arrive.
Caterpillar Inc. Tuesday reported record profits of $1.36 billion for 1996, spurred by a 27 percent jump in fourth-quarter earnings, but said it expected near flat results this year.
The world's largest heavy equipment maker said earnings for all of 1996 rose from 1995's $1.14 billion while revenues grew 2.8 percent to $16.52 billion from $16.07 billion.
For the fourth quarter, profits rose to $381 million, or $1.99 a share, from $300 million, or $1.53 a share, in the 1995 period.
Peoria, Ill.-based Caterpillar's fourth-quarter results exceeded Wall Street analysts' average estimate of $1.88 a share, according to First Call Corp., which tracks earnings estimates.
Despite the strong results, investors pushed Caterpillar's stock down $2.125 to $76.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, apparently on concerns about the outlook for 1997.
The company said it expected 1997 profits to be nearly flat with 1996 levels, with revenues from ongoing operations growing only slightly.
Caterpillar said higher demand in developing regions should offset a slightly weaker market for its machines in the United States and Japan this year.
"It's basically '97," Lisa Shalett, analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said of the stock's fall. But she added that one-time currency factors also helped boost the earnings above estimates.
"It comes across as a surprise, but it's not necessarily a surprise from operations," Shalett said of fourth-quarter earnings.
But other analysts suggested Cateprillar was being too conservative in its view for 1997.
"Caterpillar always looks at the glass being half empty," said Thomas Burns Jr., analyst at NatWest Securities Corp. "We think its half full.
"We expect a better U.S. economy," he said. "We don't expect housing starts to be off." He noted that Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan made positive comments about the economy on Tuesday.
Caterpillar said it stood by its forecast, but was prepared to meet higher demand than expected, as it did in 1996.
"We're trying to call it as we see it," Chief Financial Officer Douglas Oberhelman said in a telephone interview. "I will tell you that a year ago, we called for a softer economy in the U.S. and it didn't happen. We were pleasantly surprised."
Caterpillar said profit margins as a percent of sales rose to 25.2 percent in 1996 from 22.3 percent in 1995 due to higher prices and the effect of the stronger dollar against the yen and European currencies.
Lower material costs and improvements in the manufacturing process also helped.
Total capital expenditures in 1996 were $642 million and are expected to increase 10 to 15 percent in 1997, Caterpillar said.
"In 1997, we plan to increase spending for capital assets, research and product development to enhance our prospects for long-term growth and profitability," Chairman Donald Fites said in a statement accompanying the results. "In addition, we intend to increase our investments for new business opportunities around the globe."
Research and development spending is expected to rise 20 percent from $410 million in 1996, the company said.
Major initiatives include electric power generation, agricultural products, mining systems, compact machines and strengthening the company's product support system, Caterpillar said.
Caterpillar Inc chief financial officer Douglas Oberhelman said Tuesday that an increase in U.S. dealer new machine inventories at the end of 1996 was intentional.
"It's higher than it was a year ago and that's by design," Olberhelman said in an interview with Reuters. "As it turned out last year, we didn't have enough inventory in dealer hands and this year we will, we hope," he said.
Some analysts expressed concern Tuesday at the increase in inventories.  
The Peoria, Illinois-based heavy equipment maker Tuesday reported record net income of $381 million or $1.99 a share for the fourth quarter, up from $300 million or $1.53 a share a year ago and $0.11 ahead of consensus estimates.
But the company's outlook that the 1997 profit level would "approximate" that of 1996 appeared to be pushing the stock lower Tuesday.
Oberhelman defended the company's view of slowing U.S. economic growth in the face of analysts' comments that the view was too conservative.  
"We're trying to call it as we see it," he said. "I will tell you that a year ago, we called for a softer economy in the U.S. and it didn't happen. We were pleasantly surprised."
He added that the company is prepared to increase production if demand is stronger than expected, as it did in 1996.
After focusing the last several years on improving operations, Oberhelman said the company now thinks it's time to increase spending on research and development and on capital assets to improve shareholder value in the future.  
Total capital expenditures were $642 million in 1996 and are expected to rise 10 to 15 percent in 1997, while research and development is expected to rise 20 percent from the $410 million spent in 1996, Caterpillar said.
"It's going to be a little bit of everything," he said when asked if the expenditures would be focused on acquisition or internal development.
He said the company is likely to continue its pace of about 50 new or upgraded product introductions a year through 1999.
One area the company is looking to gain in is power generation equipment, a $5 billion worldwide market Caterpillar sees tripling in the next several years.
"We'll still be building there, both internally and through acquisitions," he said.
Caterpillar shares were down 1-3/4 at 76-3/4 Tuesday.
(Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787)
A conservative forecast for 1997, calling for profits near 1996 levels, helped push Caterpillar Inc stock lower despite record earnings reported for 1996 Tuesday.
But the outlook was also causing some analysts to question the conservatism of the Peoria-based heavy equipment maker.
"Caterpillar always looks at the glass being half empty," said Thomas Burns Jr., an analyst at NatWest Securities Corp. "We think it's half full."  
"We expect a better U.S. economy," Burns said. "We don't expect housing starts to be off." He noted that Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan made positive comments about the economy Tuesday.
But Caterpillar said in its earnings statement that it expects U.S. gross domestic product growth of about two percent in 1997, slower than in 1996.
Burns is also more optimistic about European growth than Caterpillar.
"Clearly, as far as we're concerned, there's a turn up on the way in Europe," he said.  
But in Caterpillar's view, bullish factors will be offset by delays of infrastructure products as countries impose fiscal restraint to meet the entry criteria for the European Monetary Union.
Caterpillar reported earnings of $381 million, or $1.99 a share for the fourth quarter of 1996, above the $1.53 a share reported in 1995 and the consensus estimate of $1.88 a share reported by First Call Corp.  
But the stock was down 1-1/8 at 77-3/8 Tuesday, mostly because of the outlook.
"It's basically '97," Lisa Shalett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said of the stock's downturn. But she noted that one-time currency factors helped boost the earnings above estimates.
"It comes across as a surprise, but it's not necessarily a surprise from operations," Shalett said.
Still, despite Caterpillar's guidance on profits in 1997, Burns and other analysts are sticking by estimates showing earnings per share climbing from the $7.07 reported in 1996.
Burns estimates earnings of $7.70 a share for 1997.
Blair Brumley, an analyst at Dain Bosworth Inc, is even more bullish, forecasting earnings of $8.00 a share.
"It doesn't look like there's anything in the outlook statement that would cause us to be concerned with this year," Brumley said, noting that share repurchases, gains in the engine business from a recent acquisition and price gains from new products should boost earnings.
"Even assuming flat unit sales, you're not going to see a flat bottom line," he said.
((Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
Intuit Inc Wednesday launched its new, streamlined banking system on America Online Inc's online computer system, with some of the largest banks in the United States agreeing to use the product.
Intuit's BankNOW will be offered as part of America Online's Banking Center, along with products by CheckFree Corp, Online Resources and  Visa Interactive.  
BankNOW is geared to customers who wish to conduct banking transactions such as bill paying and fund transfers online, but do not use the personal finance software that is part of Intuit's Quicken banking package, Mountain View, California-based Intuit said in a news release.
So far, 14 U.S. financial institutions, including First Chicago NBD Corp and CoreStates Financial Corp are using BankNOW, with an additional eight committed to use the product, Intuit said.  
Dulles, Virginia-based America Online, said 19 financial institutions provide banking services on the system.
The BankNOW software can be downloaded for free from America Online. Financial institutions charge their customers for using the product.
For example, First Chicago said it will charge $3.95 a month for customers using online-banking and $9.95 a month for online banking and bill paying, though some premium checking account users will be able to do online banking for free.
First Chicago looks at BankNOW as a premium service it can offer customers.
"We think there is a large market for this," First Chicago spokesman Thomas Kelly said. "We also think this is a point of differention in our markets."
But to some, the scope of online banking still remains in doubt.
"I don't know whether its the wave of the future," said James Schutz, banking analyst at Chicago Corp. "I don't think they (the banks) know either. I just think they're keeping their options open."
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
Angry British businesses expressed dismay on Tuesday after news of another overhaul of telephone prefixes in what is promised to be the final phase of a search for "future proof" phone numbers.
Telecommunications watchdog Oftel announced plans to create billions of new numbers, although Britain has barely recovered from "PhONEday" in April 1995, when the last batch of new numbers was created and millions of old ones were made obsolete.
"These changes mean more disruption and cost to businesses," said Simon Sperryn, chief executive of the London Chamber of Commerce &amp; Industry. "...business is bound to be lost because of customers ringing the outdated number."
PhONEday cost telecoms giant British Telecommunications alone 100 million pounds ($166 million).
Each time numbers change, companies have to pay thousands of pounds in notifying business contacts and to change stationery and logos on delivery vans and shopfronts.
London dialling codes will now be lengthened by a uniform 020 prefix in the year 2000. The current London codes of 0171 and 0181 will be shortened to 7 and 8, respectively, to be dialled after 020.
Northern Ireland, Cardiff (Wales) and the southern English coastal cities of Southampton and Portsmouth will also each get a new prefix starting with 02. Prefixes of 03 to 06 are being kept for future generations.
In an attempt to quell mounting anger and confusion, Oftel director general Don Cruickshank, who was once memorably quoted as saying he was "not very good" at forecasting demand for numbers, pledged the new plan would be robust and flexible.
"By early in the next century we will have completed transition to one of the most clear, flexible and customer-friendly numbering schemes in the world," he said.
But the opposition Labour Party called for his suspension pending an inquiry into what it called a renumbering "shambles".
Labour consumer affairs spokesman Nigel Griffiths said Oftel had ignored advice that PhONEday would not create enough new numbers and another costly upheaval would be needed.
"Sadly this was ignored. How can the public have any confidence that Mr Cruickshank has got it right?" he asked.
Perhaps surprisingly, BT has backed Cruickshank's new attempt to solve the problem of surging demand for telephone numbers. Cruickshank also drew praise from the Telecommunications Managers Association, a professional consumer group, which said the old system had lacked logic and structure.
A range of numbers with the prefix 05 will be reserved for corporate use, so companies can move around the country without changing numbers -- or just keep one number for all sites.
Mobile, paging and personal numbers are set to take the prefix 07 by 2001, special freephone and local rate services will have the prefix 08 and premium rate numbers will adopt 090 by 1999.
Nevertheless, Cruickshank voiced uncertainty about long-term future use, musing: "If you star-gaze way into the next century I have a sneaking suspicion e-mail and voice recognition may well replace numbers."
The European Airbus consortium said on Tuesday it was confidently pressing ahead with studies on a 555-seat passenger plane despite a decision by archrival Boeing to scale back work on a larger jumbo jet.
Boeing on Monday said market conditions did not justify the risk and expense of building a new version of its 747 jumbo jet, the 747-X, and it was diverting half the 1,000 staff on that project to smaller planes.
"We are confident the A3XX will meet market needs," an Airbus spokesman said. "The signs from major airlines working with us on shaping the A3XX are definitely encouraging."
Airbus, ever quick to seize on any perceived gaps in Boeing's armour, says airlines want an all-new plane rather than Boeing's 747-X, which the Airbus spokesman said was the "end of the line for a product developed in the late 1960s".
"Airlines want to fly into the 21st century facing forward, not backwards," the spokesman added.
Airbus must attack Boeing's monopoly on the large-capacity segment and is studying designs for an A3XX product family which it hopes to launch in 1998 for service in 2003.
It wants to grab at least half of the aircraft market by the end of the decade, up from its estimated historic share of 35 percent. But it lacks large planes to compete with Boeing's 777 giant twinjet and the best-selling 747 jumbo.
The four-nation consortium differs with Boeing over the potential market and development costs for a new large plane.
Airbus forecasts a market of 1,383 planes seating more than 400 passengers over the next 20 years, while Boeing believes demand would only stretch to 470 planes seating 500 or more, which would not allow it to get a return on its money.
A basic A3XX would cost around $200 million, giving potential sales worth more than $275 billion on the Airbus forecast.
"A split market would have been a big challenge for two manufacturers but now Boeing is opting out, that enhances our prospects," the Airbus spokesman said.
Airbus accepts the view that the market will fragment further as people want to fly more frequently, non-stop, long distance between city pairs.
The "fragmentation" effect was one of the factors cited by Boeing for cutting demand for larger planes and reducing the importance of big airport hubs.
But Airbus believes it will meet that market change with its A340 long-haul plane and that the A3XX will co-exist.
Saturation of air routes and airport landing slots calls for higher capacity planes, it argues. Countering critics who point to already lengthy waits at airports, it says its A3XX designs would allow a quicker passenger turnaround than the jumbo.
Airbus is talking to 14 leading airlines on what the plane should offer and is confident that it can match or better the airlines' operating demands. These include fitting within an 80 metre "box" at the airport terminal.
It is officially sticking to its estimated $8 billion development cost for the A3XX, despite scepticism among some experts that it cannot be done for less than $15 billion.
Airbus is a consortium made up of French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace, Daimler-Benz Aerospace (part of Daimler-Benz) and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA of Spain.
The European Airbus consortium said on Tuesday it was confidently pressing ahead with studies on a 555-seat passenger plane despite a decision by archrival Boeing to scale back work on a larger jumbo jet.
Boeing on Monday said market conditions did not justify the risk and expense of building a new version of its 747 jumbo jet, the 747-X, and it was diverting half the 1,000 staff on that project to smaller planes.
"We are confident the A3XX will meet market needs," an Airbus spokesman said. "The signs from major airlines working with us on shaping the A3XX are definitely encouraging."
Airbus, ever quick to seize on any perceived gaps in Boeing's armour, says airlines want an all-new plane rather than Boeing's 747-X, which the Airbus spokesman said was the "end of the line for a product developed in the late 1960s".
"Airlines want to fly into the 21st century facing forward, not backwards," the spokesman added.
Airbus must attack Boeing's monopoly on the large-capacity segment and is studying designs for an A3XX product family which it hopes to launch in 1998 for service in 2003.
It wants to grab at least half of the aircraft market by the end of the decade, up from its estimated historic share of 35 percent. But it lacks large planes to compete with Boeing's 777 giant twinjet and the best-selling 747 jumbo.
The four-nation consortium differs with Boeing over the potential market and development costs for a new large plane.
Airbus forecasts a market of 1,383 planes seating more than 400 passengers over the next 20 years, while Boeing believes demand would only stretch to 470 planes seating 500 or more, which would not allow it to get a return on its money.
A basic A3XX would cost around $200 million, giving potential sales worth more than $275 billion on the Airbus forecast.
"A split market would have been a big challenge for two manufacturers but now Boeing is opting out, that enhances our prospects," the Airbus spokesman said.
Airbus accepts the view that the market will fragment further as people want to fly more frequently, non-stop, long distance between city pairs.
The "fragmentation" effect was one of the factors cited by Boeing for cutting demand for larger planes and reducing the importance of big airport hubs.
But Airbus believes it will meet that market change with its A340 long-haul plane and that the A3XX will co-exist.
Saturation of air routes and airport landing slots calls for higher capacity planes, it argues. Countering critics who point to the already lengthy waits at airports, it says its A3XX designs would allow a quicker passenger turnaround than the jumbo.
Airbus is talking to 14 leading airlines on what the plane should offer and is confident that it can match or better the airlines' operating demands. These include fitting within an 80 metre "box" at the airport terminal.
It is officially sticking to its estimated $8 billion development cost for the A3XX, despite scepticism among some experts that it cannot be done for less than $15 billion.
Even though, privately, Airbus executives concede that the cost could be nearer $10 billion, they say they will try to contain costs to $8 billion.
Airbus is a consortium made up of French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace (a unit of Daimler-Benz AG) and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
Angry British businesses expressed dismay on Tuesday after news of another overhaul of telephone prefixes in what is promised to be the final phase of a search for "future proof" phone numbers.
Telecommunications watchdog Oftel announced plans to create billions of new numbers, although Britain has barely recovered from "PhONEday" in April 1995, when the last batch of new numbers was created and millions of old ones were made obsolete.
"These changes mean more disruption and cost to businesses," said Simon Sperryn, chief executive of the London Chamber of Commerce &amp; Industry. "...business is bound to be lost because of customers ringing the outdated number."
PhONEday cost telecoms giant British Telecommunications alone 100 million pounds.
Each time numbers change, companies have to pay thousands of pounds in notifying business contacts and to change stationery and logos on delivery vans and shopfronts.
London dialling codes will now be lengthened by a uniform 020 prefix in the year 2000. The current London codes of 0171 and 0181 will be shortened to 7 and 8, respectively, to be dialled after 020.
Northern Ireland, Cardiff (Wales) and the southern English coastal cities of Southampton and Portsmouth will also each get a new prefix starting with 02. Prefixes of 03 to 06 are being kept for future generations.
In an attempt to quell mounting anger and confusion, Oftel director general Don Cruickshank, who was once memorably quoted as saying he was "not very good" at forecasting demand for numbers, pledged the new plan would be robust and flexible.
"By early in the next century we will have completed transition to one of the most clear, flexible and customer-friendly numbering schemes in the world," he said.
But the opposition Labour Party called for his suspension pending an inquiry into what it called a renumbering "shambles".
Labour consumer affairs spokesman Nigel Griffiths said Oftel had ignored advice that PhONEday would not create enough new numbers and another costly upheaval would be needed.
"Sadly this was ignored. How can the public have any confidence that Mr Cruickshank has got it right?" he asked.
Perhaps surprisingly, BT has backed Cruickshank's new attempt to solve the problem of surging demand for telephone numbers.
Cruickshank also drew praise from the Telecommunications Managers Association, a professional consumer group, which said the old numbering system had lacked logic and structure.
"Oftel is to be congratulated -- it has developed a framework that will give UK telecoms and the country as a whole the necessary stability to enable people to plan for the future in a dynamic and competitive environment," it said.
A range of numbers with the prefix 05 will be reserved for corporate use, so companies can move around the country without changing numbers -- or just keep one number for all sites.
Mobile, paging and personal numbers are set to take the prefix 07 by 2001, special freephone and local rate services will have the prefix 08 and premium rate numbers will adopt 090 by 1999.
Nevertheless, Cruickshank voiced uncertainty about long-term future use, musing: "If you star-gaze way into the next century I have a sneaking suspicion e-mail and voice recognition may well replace numbers."
Australian investment and property group Lend Lease Corp and Thailand's Modern Home Co announced on Tuesday they would build a markets complex in Northern Bangkok that would be Asia's largest.
"The 160 hectare, A$1 billion (US$778 million) project aims to create a new industrial commercial and residential hub in northern Bangkok, anchored around what is currently being established as Asia's largest single agricultural produce and export market," Lend Lease and Modern Home said in a joint venture announcement.
"The joint venture brings together the local experience of Modern Home and Lend Lease's international resources and financial strength," they said.
Stage one of the project, which was 60 percent complete and projected to cost A$700 million, was already processing 15,000 tonnes of produce a day and had parking for 25,000 vehicles.
The complex, known as the Thai Markets project, would be located on the main northern road from Bangkok and be about 20 km from the airport.
"Located in a key location in North Bangkok, the Thai Market has been conceived to tap into the high growth agricultural and industrial sectors as Thailand emerges as the 'food bowl of Asia'," the said.
The complex would eventually include food processing facilities so produce from surrounding areas could be packaged and processed for export.
The second and third stages, which would cost A$300 million, would include factories, retail outlets and homes to service the complex.
"There will also be a major discount retail and wholesale distribution facilities and shophouses," they said.
Lend Lease's Asian unit, based in Singapore, would contribute up to A$100 million to the joint venture for a 10 percent stake initially, with that percentage changing as the stages progressed.
The project is expected to take four years to complete.
A Lend Lease spokeswoman said she could not say how the percentage would change.
Modern Home chief executive Thanom Angkanawatana said the joint venture was a key step for his company.
"Lend Lease brings extensive experience, management skills and capital. Their international perspective will significantly strengthen the project and position future stages for the next upturn in the economy," Angkanawatana said in the joint statement.
"Completion of the adjacent Thammasart University and Asian Games complexes as well as continuing infrastructure investment in the area by the Thai government is expected to further benefit the project," the two partners said.
The state-owned Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) is backing the project and the Thai Ministry of Commerce also supports it, the Lend Lease spokeswoman said.
"The current success of the market project show, that it has strong fundamentals and makes it a good opportunity for Lend Lease," Lend Lease Asia managing director Richard Clarke said.
The announcement of the Thai joint venture is part of Lend Lease's widespread push into Asian property development.
Lend Lease announced on Monday it had formed a 50/50 joint venture with privately-owned U.S. firm Oakwood International Ltd to manage about 10,000 serviced apartments around Asia, including in Bangkok.
Lend Lease said it would initially contribute US$15 million for the management entity and would then seek additional capital.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Electronic payment systems company Intellect Holdings Ltd said on Tuesday its bid for Internet software firm Techway Ltd would allow it to launch a product for making secure payments on the Internet.
Intellect, which helped pioneer EFTPOS (Electronic Funds Transfer Point of Sale) technology and systems in Australia, wanted to export Techway's software in conjunction with its own secure electronic payments systems, Intellect executive chairman Ross Leighton told Reuters.  
Intellect already sold its EFTPOS hardware and software to 20 banks outside Australia and to five or six large banks in Europe, all of whom were investigating its use with the Internet.
"All banks are looking for greater service and lower costs and the internet is the way to do that," Leighton said in an interview.
Finding a user-friendly and secure way of making payments and money transfers on the internet has become something of a holy grail for programmers.  
Secure payments systems are seen dramatically increasing the volume of financial transactions made on the net, which are already growing strongly.
Techway's Web Australia unit built the software currently being used for internet banking by Advance Bank Ltd, which is merging with St George Bank Ltd.
Intellect announced late on Monday it would make a takeover offer for Techway Ltd in a counter-bid to a previous offer by Nova Pacific Capital Ltd.
Intellect said it will offer one of its shares for every 2-1/2 Techway shares. The bid values Techway at A$4.9 million.  
Techway, who had already signed a distribution agreement with Intellect, has recommended shareholders accept the bid.
Leighton said the success of Techway's software on the Advance Bank site was a key factor in Intellect's decision to launch a takeover bid.
Advance's Internet banking site is Australia's most successful and has been consistently rated amoung the world's top ten internet banking sites by The Money Pages, an Internet magazine that rates internet sites.  
Advance Bank spokesman David Brown said the Techway-designed site had 10,000 regular customers who used the site for about 10,000 transactions a week.
The site was picking up 150 new customers a week and each internet transaction cost the bank less than 10 cents, while an over the counter transaction cost about A$2.50, he said.
"The collaboration between Techway and Advance was a key for Advance getting the jump on our competitors," Brown said.
Intellect's Leighton said Techway's headstart in Australia meant it had a good chance of becoming the industry standard for Internet transactions in Australia.  
"It has the ability to become a defacto standard in Australia," Leighton said.
The marriage of Techway's secure transaction software and Intellect's EFTPOS hardware and systems would help accelerate the trend of convergence evident in recent years between debit cards, credit cards and EFTPOS, he said.
"As these different payments come together, you'll then see they'll be able to be more economically utilised over the Internet."  
Intellect's share price closed down three cents at 95 cents on Tuesday, giving it a market capitalisation of A$48.19 million.
Techway's shares closed up 5.5 cents at 37 cents.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Economic commentators in Hong Kong are sounding alarms about the unbridled optimism spurring stock and property prices to new highs ahead of the British colony's return to Chinese sovereignty on July 1.
Concerns are mounting that rising price pressures could inflate a collapsible bubble on the assumption that China will support Hong Kong's economy through the transition regardless of any political disruption.
"The term 'moral hazard' refers to the apparently growing belief in local markets that there is little dramatic down-side risk -- as opposed to short-term volatility -- because ultimately China will suppport Hong Kong markets," Ian Perkin, chief economist with the Hong Kong Chamber of Commerce, wrote in a column in the South China Morning Post.
In contrast to earlier fears that political uncertainty could torpedo Hong Kong's economy in 1997, domestic confidence in China's determination to keep the economy stable through the transition is so high that an unexpected problem has arisen -- price instability.
INFLATION FORECASTS ON THE RISE
Economists are starting to revise upwards their inflation forecasts for 1997 in response to booming stock and luxury property prices.
"The outlook for 1997 is going to be less good than we thought," said Kevin Chan, economist at Salomon Brothers.
Salomon has raised its 1997 forecast for the territory's benchmark consumer price index to seven percent from 6.6 percent late last year, and Chan said further increases are possible.
Sudden strength in Hong Kong's stock market in the middle of last year was welcomed as proof of confidence in the colony's future under China, and evidence of an economic turnaround following an export slump early last year and three years of austerity in China.
But the optimism became concern in November when speculation emerged in the luxury end of Hong Kong's property market.
Citing anecdotal evidence, Perkin argued that overseas and domestic investors confident of China's commitment to economic stability in Hong Kong are rushing to buy high-end properties in anticipation of short-term gains.
The Hong Kong government has since strongly supported a set of anti-speculation measures by the Real Estate Developers Association, and warned it will step in if there are signs that speculation is filtering down to the middle or low end of the property market.
But economists said property price volatility would eventually stimulate overall inflation, even though it has been restricted so far to the high end of the market.
"This will not be good for inflation expectations," Chan said. "In general, people will expect the higher prices in the luxury sector to affect medium and small flats."
RENTS TO RISE 15 PERCENT THIS YEAR
Chan estimates an overall rise of 30 percent in property prices will translate into at least a 15 percent increase in rents this year, which account for 25 percent of the Hong Kong government's benchmark consumer price index (A).
Food prices, which account for 37 percent of CPI(A), are expected to rise by at least eight percent this year after holding steady last year.
Hong Kong will also suffer from its currency link to the U.S. dollar. If the United States raises short-term interest rates this year by 25 to 50 basis points, as many expect, real rates in Hong Kong -- the difference between nominal rates and inflation -- will fall to about one percent, Chan said.
Such low rates will propel growing momentum in both private consumption and retail sales.
China, with its well-documented aversion to the socially destabilising effects of inflation, has done little to stoke further exuberance over Hong Kong's post-1997 economy beyond saying it backed Hong Kong's currency link.
"There seems little doubt Hong Kong's new sovereign wants to see the local economy prosper throughout the year of transition and in the early years of its resumption of sovereignty," Perkin wrote. "It (is) probably true that it does not want to see the local economy going on a speculative spree that will eventually run out of steam and cause a collapse."
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
Australian investment and property group Lend Lease Corp and Thailand's Modern Home Co announced on Tuesday they would build a markets complex in Northern Bangkok that would be Asia's largest.
"The 160 hectare, A$1 billion (US$778 million) project aims to create a new industrial commercial and residential hub in northern Bangkok, anchored around what is currently being established as Asia's largest single agricultural produce and export market," Lend Lease and Modern Home said in a joint venture announcement.
"The joint venture brings together the local experience of Modern Home and Lend Lease's international resources and financial strength," they said.
Stage one of the project, which was 60 percent complete and projected to cost A$700 million, was already processing 15,000 tonnes of produce a day and had parking for 25,000 vehicles.
The complex, known as the Thai Markets project, would be located on the main northern road from Bangkok and be about 20 km from the airport.
"Located in a key location in North Bangkok, the Thai Market has been conceived to tap into the high growth agricultural and industrial sectors as Thailand emerges as the 'food bowl of Asia'," the statement said.
The complex would eventually include food processing facilities so produce from surrounding areas could be packaged and processed for export.
The second and third stages, which would cost A$300 million, would include factories, retail outlets and homes to service the complex.
"There will also be a major discount retail and wholesale distribution facilities and shophouses," they said.
Lend Lease's Asian unit, based in Singapore, would contribute up to A$100 million to the joint venture for a 10 percent stake initially, with that percentage changing as the stages progressed.
The project is expected to take four years to complete.
A Lend Lease spokeswoman said she could not say how the percentage would change.
Modern Home chief executive Thanom Angkanawatana said the joint venture was a key step for his company.
"Lend Lease brings extensive experience, management skills and capital. Their international perspective will significantly strengthen the project and position future stages for the next upturn in the economy," Angkanawatana said in the statement.
"Completion of the adjacent Thammasart University and Asian Games complexes as well as continuing infrastructure investment in the area by the Thai government is expected to further benefit the project," the two partners said.
The state-owned Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) is backing the project and the Thai Ministry of Commerce also supports it, the Lend Lease spokeswoman said.
"The current success of the market project show, that it has strong fundamentals and makes it a good opportunity for Lend Lease," Lend Lease Asia managing director Richard Clarke said.
The announcement of the Thai joint venture is part of Lend Lease's widespread push into Asian property development.
Lend Lease announced on Monday it had formed a 50-50 joint venture with privately-owned U.S. firm Oakwood International Ltd to manage about 10,000 serviced apartments around Asia, including in Bangkok.
Lend Lease said it would initially contribute US$15 million for the management entity and would then seek additional capital.
(A$1 = US$0.7780)
Amoco Corp is basing its 1997 business plans on assumed prices of $18 to $19 per barrel for crude oil and $2.00 to $2.10 per thousand (corrects from million) cubic feet for natural gas, said chief financial officer John Carl.
In an interview with Reuters, Carl said, "We're making our investment decisions on $18 to $19 crude. On natural gas ... around $2.00, $2.10 per thousand (corrects from million) cubic feet of natural gas is what we're looking at from a planning assumption.""
U.S. crude futures for March delivery on Wednesday closed at $24.24 per barrel.  
"We like these prices where they are. We think they're where they are because of a tightness between supply and demand ... But we're not making our investment decisions on those prices," Carl said.
Shares in Chicago-based Amoco rose 7/8 to 85-7/8 on Wednesday after the energy giant reported strong fourth-quarter and 1996 financial results.
Amoco will likely spend about $550 million this year on exploration, compared to about $610 million in 1996, he said.
The company also is planning to hold its 1997 operating costs throughout the company flat at the 1996 level, he said.  
"You look at total operating costs as a company, they're basically flat, '97 to '96, on a planning basis. We're really pushing that responsibility down into the units. One unit to another unit might have job eliminations ... But we don't anticipate any wholesale, large restructurings like we announced in '92 and '94," Carl said.
In reporting results, Amoco said fourth-quarter chemical sector earnings fell versus the year-ago period and cited lower olefins and softened paraxylene product profit margins.
On paraxylene prices, Carl said, "It looks like maybe they hit the bottom at the end of December" near $0.19 per pound.  
"It may be that they're starting to firm up a little bit, but I think it's too soon to call that," he said.
Paraxylene traded on the spot market Wednesday near $0.22 per pound. "Paraxylene prices appear to be coming up," said Salomon Brothers energy industry analyst Paul Ting.
On olefins, Carl said, "Olefins is much tougher. The trick with olefins right now is the feedstock issue hitting them. A little bit of pressure on the price side, too. Too soon to call that one, too, I think."
He said Amoco saw refining margins decline in December. "We're not seeing any change from that" in Q1, he said. "It's kind of hanging around the same place. Those refining margins continue to be below where we were a year ago on a year-to-date basis. It's still tough out there."
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
Quick &amp; Reilly Group Inc sees revenues possibly doubling to as much as $120 million by early 1998 at the OTC market-maker, Nash, Weiss &amp; Co, the pioneering discount broker is buying, top Quick executives said on Wednesday.
The firm also plans to move Nash, Weiss, now largely a market maker for retail brokerages, into the institutional side of the business by adding 1,000 or more issues to its current 2,500 roster, Quick President Thomas Quick told Reuters.  
"This gives us another major leg," said Leslie Quick III, the president's brother and head of the discount-brokerage's U.S. Clearing Corp subsidiary. "We expect this Nasdaq market maker business to be a fourth leg for us."
Best known as a retail broker, Quick &amp; Reilly is also a significant force in backroom processing of Wall Street trading and owner of the JCC Specialist Corp, the second largest market-maker, or specialist firm, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Earlier, the firm agreed to acquire Nash Weiss, a market maker of 2,500 Nasdaq issues, for an undisclosed amount.  
"That number will probably go to 3,500 to 4,000," Leslie Quick III said.
The brothers, whose father, chairman Leslie Quick Jr, co-founded the firm in the early 1970s, said the mightily improved  capitalization of Nash, Weiss after the merger with Quick &amp; Reilly will make it much more attractive to large institutional clients.
"Right now, they are on the retail side," said Leslie Quick III. "They are probably the fifth or sixth largest. We think we can take the business into the top three. With our balance sheet, we can go after institutions."  
Thomas Quick said the leading market-maker for institutional clients had capitalization of about $80 million, or 20 times or more that of Nash Weiss.
The brothers said they expect revenues at Nash, Weiss, to rise dramatically as long as stock trading remains robust and may even double by the end of fiscal year 1998. The company's fiscal year ends on the last day of February.
Nash, Weiss will be run as a separate subsidiary remaining in Jersey City, New Jersey, and no job cuts or restructurings were planned, the brothers said.
Shares of Quick &amp; Reilly were up 1/8 to 331/4.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013.
Fund manager Nicola Horlick's row with her ex-employer Morgan Grenfell Asset Management (MGAM) continued to be played out in public on Wednesday as she admitted that she had been in talks with a rival banking group until several days before she was suspended.
But Horlick stressed that the talks with Dutch firm ABN AMRO were of an "informal and preliminary nature" and at no time had she provided confidential information about the business or colleagues.
"The talks terminated several days before I was suspended," said Horlick. "My aim was always to keep the clients and the team together for the benefit of all."
The benefit of all included MGAM whom, she said, she had never intended to leave.
Horlick, one of London's most prominent fund managers, resigned last week after being suspended amid allegations she planned to defect to ABN AMRO and was soliciting MGAM colleagues to go with her.
The suspension came just days after she had been promoted to be managing director of MGAM and since then her fight to be reinstated or compensated for the loss of her job has rarely been out of the headlines.
Once again the lure of the cameras proved difficult to resist on Wednesday and in a television interview, Horlick repeated her determination to clear her name.
"When you're faced with the fact that people are saying that you've done something wrong and you know you haven't you have to fight for yourself. It's one individual versus a very large bank," she said. "All I have is my reputation and I must defend myself."
The 35 year-old mother-of-five's battle with MGAM has raised eyebrows in the traditionally discreet and conservative banking industry but she maintained she saw no alternative to the action she had taken.
Horlick was catapulted onto the front pages last Friday when she turned up on MGAM's doorstep with a posse of journalists to confront her former employyers after her resignation.
Later to the surprise of everbody -- including her own lawyers -- she flew to Frankfurt to put her case to officials at MGAM's parent company Deutsche Bank.
ABN AMRO has denied trying to poach Horlick and her team and today said they had nothing to add to earlier statements.
Horlick has been in talks with her lawyers for the past few days and is considering taking legal action against her former employer for constructive dismissal.
MGAM is holding fast to its line that it will not reinstate Horlick nor offer compensation since she took the decision to resign her position.
Bankers in London say they hope to sign a package restructuring the 8.7 billion pounds ($14 billion) debt of channel tunnel operator Eurotunnel well before a new year-end deadline runs out.
"Just as the previous deadline of April was a bit optimistic, the new one errs on the side of caution," said one banking source. "It'll look good now if they bring it in ahead of time."
Earlier this week, Eurotunnel and its creditor banks agreed a nine-month extension of a debt payment standstill until the end of the year. The debt standstill went into effect in September 1995 and was due to run for 18 months.
Bankers said, despite the fact that the extended standstill would mean interest would continue to accrue, this would have no effect on the debt deal which will continue to be applied to Eurotunnel's debt position as of October 15, 1996.
"The interest and any other charges due since the cut-off date will become payable when the deal goes into effect," the banking source said.
Last October, following marathon negotiations, Eurotunnel and the steering committee of banks agreed a restructuring deal which will have to agreed by a total of 225 creditor banks and the shareholders of the company.
The deal included a 1.0 billion pounds swap of debt for equity at 130p per share, a swap for interest-bearing equity notes, shareholder warrants, loan notes and resettable bonds.
An amount of 4.0 billion pounds would remain as junior debt, paying a fixed interest rate until the end of 2003 and then reverting to 1.25 percent above the London Interbank Offered Rate.
The company also has the right to issue "stabilisation notes" to cover any unpaid interest resulting from the deal. These would be interest-free until the start of 2006 and would then pay 1.25 percent over Libor.
Suspended at 113-1/2p ahead of the debt refinancing announcement last year, Eurotunnel shares quickly fell to below 90p in the days following and have remained relatively stable since then.
On Wednesday, they were quoted up 2-1/2p at 86-1/2.
The lower price means the 130p debt to equity swap price looks even better for shareholders but bankers say this is unlikely to cause a problem for the deal.
"They (the shareholders) are getting a better deal on that portion of the debt but the shares were probably overvalued and I can't see my colleagues ditching the deal because of that," the banking source said. "The deal has to happen, both sides know that." ($1=.6035 Pound)
Russia said on Wednesday it would restructure natural gas monopoly Gazprom's operations, but Western analysts and even a junior company official said the move would leave the world's largest gas company intact.
"What Gazprom has suggested for itself is not a restructuring but a commercialisation of their services in Russia," said Jonathan Stern, vice-president of Gas Strategies in London and an expert on Russian gas.
Asked if Russia would reshape one of its most powerful companies in the formal sense of the word, Stern said: "No. But it is corporatisation in the Western sense."
Economy Minister Yevgeny Yasin told a news conference the goverment would restructure Gazprom's home operations and possibly split its domestic output and transport arms.
He said the changes at Gazprom -- whose American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) keep investors drooling -- would in no way affect foreign shareholders.
"Domestic restructuring, yes. But we will not weaken Gazprom as an international corporation," he said.
Carving up Gazprom, whose gas accounts for 60 percent of Europe's gas imports, could deregulate the firm along the lines of British Gas Plc if carried out Western style.
"There's more smoke than fire here," said Stephen O'Sullivan, associate oil and gas director at MC Securities in London. "I don't think there's any serious restructuring here.
"Third-party access is not enshrined in Russia," he said, referring to the fact that Gazprom controls 94 percent of Russia's gas production and most of its transmission but has hesitated to allow other companies sell its output.
Lira Rozenova, an economic adviser to Gazprom chairman Rem Vyakhirev, said any changes would keep the company whole.
"An Economy Ministry programme to 2000 assumes that restructuring and state regulation in the gas industry will be carried out while preserving in the medium-term the organisational and production unity of RAO Gazprom," she said.
Gazprom accounts for a quarter of world gas output and its 1996 production rose one percent to 575 billion cubic metres (20.31 trillion cu ft). It raised $429 million last year with ADRs and plans a Eurobond issue this year.
"ADR investors should be more worried about other things," O'Sullivan said, citing questions over whether Gazprom will ever liberalise trade in its very illiquid shares in Russia.
Stern said Yasin's remarks were essentially about accounting changes rather than structural ones.
"Transport units would pay the producers' units costs," he said, adding that the plan aimed to improve Gazprom finances. "The Russians don't mean what we mean by restructuring."
A senior British energy consultant said Yasin's remarks were "kite-flying by the government".
Gazprom was once an entire ministry run by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. Analysts said the firm would owe $7-$8 billion in annual taxes to the government if it could collect 50 trillion roubles in domestic debts.
Gazprom still has friends in high places and plans to sell even more gas to Europe from vast untapped Arctic reserves. But it has come under pressure to contribute more to the federal budget.
But Moscow may lack the will to alter one of Russia's most profitable and powerful firms substantially.
"Periodically, some radical economists in Russia have suggested truly restructuring Gazprom," Stern said. "But they have always failed. The political risk of destroying the Gazprom structure is too great."
($1 = 5,612 roubles)
Economic commentators in Hong Kong are sounding alarms about the unbridled optimism spurring stock and property prices to new highs ahead of the British colony's return to Chinese sovereignty on July 1.
Concerns are mounting that rising price pressures could inflate a collapsible bubble on the assumption that China will support Hong Kong's economy through the transition regardless of any political disruption.
"The term 'moral hazard' refers to the apparently growing belief in local markets that there is little dramatic down-side risk -- as opposed to short-term volatility -- because ultimately China will suppport Hong Kong markets," Ian Perkin, chief economist with the Hong Kong Chamber of Commerce, wrote in a column in the South China Morning Post.
In contrast to earlier fears that political uncertainty could torpedo Hong Kong's economy in 1997, domestic confidence in China's determination to keep the economy stable through the transition is so high that an unexpected problem has arisen -- price instability.
Economists are starting to revise upward their inflation forecasts for 1997 in response to booming stock and luxury property prices.
"The outlook for 1997 is going to be less good than we thought," said Kevin Chan, economist at Salomon Brothers.
Salomon has raised its 1997 forecast for the territory's benchmark consumer price index to 7 percent from 6.6 percent late last year, and Chan said further increases are possible.
Sudden strength in Hong Kong's stock market in the middle of last year was welcomed as proof of confidence in the colony's future under China, and evidence of an economic turnaround following an export slump early last year and three years of austerity in China.
But the optimism became concern in November when speculation emerged in the luxury end of Hong Kong's property market.
Citing anecdotal evidence, Perkin argued that overseas and domestic investors confident of China's commitment to economic stability in Hong Kong are rushing to buy high-end properties in anticipation of short-term gains.
The Hong Kong government has since strongly supported a set of anti-speculation measures by the Real Estate Developers Association, and warned it will step in if there are signs that speculation is filtering down to the middle or low end of the property market.
But economists said property price volatility would eventually stimulate overall inflation, even though it has been restricted so far to the high end of the market.
"This will not be good for inflation expectations," Chan said. "In general, people will expect the higher prices in the luxury sector to affect medium and small flats."
Chan estimates an overall rise of 30 percent in property prices will translate into at least a 15 percent increase in rents this year, which account for 25 percent of the Hong Kong government's benchmark consumer price index.
Food prices, which account for 37 percent of the index, are expected to rise by at least 8 percent this year after holding steady last year.
Hong Kong will also suffer from its currency link to the U.S. dollar. If the United States raises short-term interest rates this year by one-quarter to one-half of a percentage point, as many expect, real rates in Hong Kong -- the difference between nominal rates and inflation -- will fall to about 1 percent, Chan said.
Such low rates will propel growing momentum in both private consumption and retail sales.
China, with its well-documented aversion to the socially destabilising effects of inflation, has done little to stoke further exuberance over Hong Kong's post-1997 economy beyond saying it backed Hong Kong's currency link.
"There seems little doubt Hong Kong's new sovereign wants to see the local economy prosper throughout the year of transition and in the early years of its resumption of sovereignty," Perkin wrote. "It (is) probably true that it does not want to see the local economy going on a speculative spree that will eventually run out of steam and cause a collapse."
Quick &amp; Reilly Group Inc.  agreed Wednesday to buy over-the-counter market-maker Nash, Weiss Inc., another step by the pioneering discount broker into low-profile but lucrative financial-services businesses.
Terms were not disclosed, but two sons of co-founder Leslie Quick Jr. said in an interview that the acquisition of the New Jersey firm was by far the biggest deal Quick &amp; Reilly has done.
Nash, Weiss buys and sells on behalf of retail brokerages some 2,500 stocks listed on the Nasdaq over-the-counter electronic market.
Among the top six independent Nasdaq market makers, Nash, Weiss profits on the spread, or difference between prices the seller and buyer get. It employs about 60 people, Quick &amp; Reilly said.
The biggest Nasdaq market makers are subsidaries of big financial firms.
"This gives us another major leg," said Leslie Quick III, head of the company's U.S. Clearing Corp. subsidiary. "We expect this Nasdaq market maker business to be a fourth leg for us."
Best known as a retail broker, Quick &amp; Reilly is also a significant force through U.S. Clearing in backroom processing of Wall Street trading and owner of the JCC Specialist Corp., the second-largest market-maker, or specialist firm, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The deal really plays well with The Quick &amp; Reilly Group as whole," said Salomon Brothers analyst Michael Sears. "With U.S. Clearing it gives Nash, Weiss a lot of potential for going after instutitional clients."
Sears said the acquisition may be the start of a flurry of deals involving market-makers in Nasdaq stocks as reforms in pricing threaten to narrow the often wide spreads on Nasdaq stocks. Investors have complained that the price differences can amount to as much as 10 percent or more of a stock price.
Thomas Quick, president of the firm, said Quick &amp; Reilly with Nash, Weiss would court institutional clients by adding to its roster of 2,500 securities in which it makes markets.
"That number will probably go to 3,500 to 4,000," Leslie Quick III said.
The brothers, whose father, chairman Leslie Quick Jr., co-founded the firm in the early 1970s, said the mightily improved  capitalisation of Nash, Weiss after the merger with Quick &amp; Reilly will make it much more attractive to large institutional clients.
Thomas Quick said the leading market-maker for institutional clients had capitalisation of about $80 million, or 20 times or more that of Nash, Weiss. Sears said Quick &amp; Reilly had capitalisation of about $350 million.
The brothers said they expect revenues at Nash, Weiss to rise dramatically as long as stock trading remains robust, and may even double by early 1998.
Nash, Weiss will be run as a separate subsidiary remaining in Jersey City, N.J., and no job cuts or restructurings were planned, the brothers said.
Co-founder Leslie Quick Jr. serves as chairman and chief executive of the firm, which was the first to offer discounted commissions on New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks after fixed trading commissions were abolished in 1975.
Based in Palm Beach, Fla., the firm is still largely controlled by the Quicks and has more than 100 brokerage offices across the United States.
The growing mass of Internet users have paid their fair share to local telephone companies and pose little threat to the phone system, according to a study released on Wednesday by a coalition of Internet and computer companies.
The coalition presented the report to counter studies by local phone companies released last year seeking to justify new access fees on Internet usage. The phone company studies found that Internet usage threatened to overwhelm the system.  
"The Internet is not crashing the telephone network," Information Technology Association of America President Harris Miller said at a news conference here.
"We are bringing the real facts to bear on a 'problem' that the phone companies have anecdotally created to protect their own interests," said Miller, whose group is a member of the Internet Access Coalition.
On December 24, the Federal Communications Commission said it had tentatively decided not to impose access fees on Internet providers similiar to those paid by long distance companies to local phone companies.  
But the commission also asked for comments about the effect of the Internet on the phone system.
"Our findings clearly show that claims of phone network 'congestion' resulting from Internet traffic and predictions of a 'meltdown' are greatly exaggerated," said Lee Selwyn, one of the study's authors.
Further, ordinary consumers using the Internet already pay the phone companies more than enough to cover the cost of increased use, said Selwyn, who is an expert on telecommunications regulation.  
The study found, for example, that in 1995 consumers paid more than $1.4 billion for installation and use of six million second phone lines devoted to accessing the Internet or other online services. The study said another eight million second lines were not primarily used for Internet access.
Local phone companies, some of which had not yet seen the new study, disputed Selwyn's conclusions."To suggest that there is no real problem here is mind-boggling," Bell Atlantic spokesman Harry Mitchell said. As Internet companies add huge numbers of phone lines to meet growing demand, "it does impact the capacity of the public telephone network."  
America Online, for example, said recently it would double the number of modems it has to connect with subscribers from 200,000 to 400,000 by June.
But phone company studies considered only a few pieces of the phone system, focusing on switches between Internet service providers and the rest of the network, Selwyn said. While those few switches might be congested, capacity could be added inexpensively, he said.
The study also cited speeches by some phone company executives who have bragged about the additional revenues generated by increased Internet usage.  
"Sales of secondary lines at Bell Atlantic increased more than 50 percent, fueled by surging demand for Internet and telecommuting applications," company CEO Raymond Smith told Wall Street analysts last March. The revenue generated substantial profit because "we were able to provision new lines and services from idle capacity in an existing plant."
Company spokesman Mitchell said charges from second lines "were not designed to subsidize Internet service providers."
However, all sides agree that a technological solution could eliminate most congestion problems by separating calls carrying voice and data.
SBC Communications, parent of Southwestern Bell, announced last week it would introduce such splitting technology at a cost of less than $100 million.
"Technological solutions are readily available," Paul Misener, chairman of the Internet coalition's steering committee said.
((--202-898-8312))
The growing mass of Internet users have paid their fair share to local telephone companies and pose little threat to the phone system, a study by a group of Internet and computer companies said Wednesday.
The coalition presented the report to counter studies by local phone companies released last year seeking to justify new access fees on Internet usage. The phone company studies found that Internet usage threatened to overwhelm the system.
"The Internet is not crashing the telephone network," said Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America, at a news conference here.
"We are bringing the real facts to bear on a 'problem' that the phone companies have anecdotally created to protect their own interests," Miller, whose group is one member of the Internet Access Coalition, said.
The Federal Communications Commission said on Dec. 24 that it had tentatively decided not to impose access fees on Internet providers similiar to those paid by long-distance companies to local phone companies.
But the commission also asked for comments about the effect of the Internet on the phone system.
"Our findings clearly show that claims of phone network 'congestion' resulting from Internet traffic and predictions of a 'meltdown' are greatly exaggerated," Lee Selwyn, one of the study's authors, said.
Further, ordinary consumers using the Internet already pay the phone companies more than enough to cover the cost of increased use, said Selwyn, an expert on telecommunications regulation.
