He said revenues at the Fox U.S. television business had begun 1996/97 slowly because of of the Atlanta Olympic Games, the rights to which were held by a rival network.
Australian newspaper revenues would be flat in 1996/97, he said.
However, News Corp's British newspapers were doing extremely well, with circulation at The Sunday Times climbing with little promotion while advertising in Britain was booming.
Murdoch, News Corp's chief executive and chairman, also announced the group now had US$2.5 billion in cash in the bank after recent U.S. bond issues and would leave it there.
He also said that News now planned to fund future expansion from cash flow where possible.
"We know that we have to be not only viable and profitable, but also that we should stay strong and liquid," Murdoch said.
"As far as possible, we will finance them (News' expansion plans) out of current cash flow to maintain liquidity so that we will be ready to take new opportunities as they arise," he said.
News has often funded its aggressive growth in pay television and other media through either hefty debt or equity issues, which have sometimes met shareholder resistance.
Murdoch also announced that News planned to float its British based digital media technology company, Digital Media Services, within the next two to three weeks and would sell 20 percent of the company.
Digital Media Services, a combination of News Data Comm and Digi-Media Vision Ltd, would operate in Britain and Israel and produce technology for digital television.
He also later said News' Asian satellite pay television operation, STAR TV, was performing well.
A$1 = US$0.79
The trial of prominent Chinese dissident and former student leader Wang Dan for the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government is expected to be held behind closed doors soon, a family member said on Tuesday.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court had yet to inform Wang's family of the trial date, the relative said.
The court was widely expected to fill the limited number of courtroom seats with carefully selected people to keep away foreign reporters and fellow dissidents.
"Only the people notified by the court can attend the trial. Others cannot attend," the family member said in a telephone interview.
"In reality, the trial will not be open...but the court will not admit it is not an open trial," the relative said. "It tells a group of people to attend and calls this an open trial."
A court official, contacted by telephone, declined to comment.
If last year's trial of Wei Jingsheng, father of China's tiny, struggling democracy movement, was an indication, Wang's trial would be kept from public view, a political activist said. Dissidents and foreign reporters were barred from Wei's trial.
Court officials have confirmed that Wang, detained since May 1995, has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government -- a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death and a minimum of 10 years in prison.
They have not given further details of the trial though one official said that Wang could appeal to the Higher People's Court if convicted.
Relatives said last week they had found a lawyer willing to defend Wang after being given one day to find one.
Wang's mother, Wang Lingyun, a 61-year-old museum researcher who has no background in law, has said she would defend her son in court. Chinese law allows an accused to be defended by a family member.
It also states that only lawyers can meet detained defendants. Wang's mother was allowed to meet the dissident at a detention centre in Beijing on Monday because she was his legal counsel.
The dissident was mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, Wang's mother told a Hong Kong-based group that monitors human rights in China.
"Wang Dan said he has not done anything wrong...He is very calm...and psychologically prepared for a heavy sentence," the group quoted the mother as saying.
"She is very worried about his health," the group said.
It added that Wang had back, throat and prostate problems.
"In the condition that Wang Dan is in, it would be difficult for him to hold out under another long prison sentence," it quoted the mother as saying.
Wang, 26, has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
Wang had been expected to face new charges since last December, when the court that convicted Wei Jingsheng implicated Wang.
The verdict said Wei, who was jailed for 14 years, had links with people "convicted of counter-revolutionary crimes, including Wang Dan". It also referred to a tape-recorded conversation between Wang and Wei, but gave no details.
Wang had been active after his parole in 1993, defying persistent police surveillance and harassment to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
China's flamboyant tycoon Mou Qizhong is hounded by creditors, faces lawsuits and investigation for alleged irregularities and cannot leave the country, company officials said.
The embattled chairman of the Land Economic Group, who has been identified by local media as China's second richest man, was down but not out and was counting on Russian-made satellites to bail him out of financial trouble, they said.
"We're in a crisis," Chen Fang, spokeswoman for Mou, told Reuters late on Monday. Mou declined repeated requests for an interview.
Domestic creditors had demanded repayment of loans, group officials said. Mou's Land Economic Group owes 200 million yuan ($24.1 million) at home and another 200 million yuan in Hong Kong and Russia.
"Some creditors...have asked for their money back even before the maturity date," Chen said, adding that the company was planning to repay the loans gradually.
Domestic banks had refused to grant Mou new loans and the group had given up seeking loans from Chinese banks. "Abruptly recalling loans could be fatal," Chen said in an interview.
At least one investor had demanded its money back, but agreed to convert its equity into a loan, company officials said.
"The major problem we're facing now is circulating funds getting cut off... As a result, many projects are held up," Chen said.
Government authorities had cleared Mou of suspicion of tax evasion and of using unlawful funds but he remained under investigation for other unspecified irregularities, company officials said.
The authorities had been dragging their feet on renewing his passport apparently out of fear that he may flee the country and join his wife and three sons in the United States. Mou hopes to visit the United States next month.
Salaries of employees were slashed to 270 yuan a month -- China's urban minimum wage -- in July and August and were 600 yuan in September from an average of 2,000 yuan a month in the past, the officials said. About 50 people have resigned, leaving some 300.
A contractor in Inner Mongolia had sued the Land Group for allegedly defaulting on a contract, and court officials foreclosed on company cars and office equipment in August.
"Many people say that this could be what is called in Buddhism an inexorable doom for Mr Mou or the Land Group," Chen said.
Chen blamed the woes of Mou on the media "surrounding and attacking" him since March as well as a smear campaign by former employees and a government credit squeeze to curb inflation.
"But the Land Group will not collapse," she said.
Mou plans to raise an unspecified amount of money through a planned share issue, for two Russian-made GALS communications satellites he owns, on the Hong Kong stock exchange, officials said.
The first was launched in January 1994 and the second in November 1995. Russia launched both satellites in Kazakhstan.
In addition, Mou has bought a 30 percent stake in a company that will develop, manufacture and launch two Russian-made Intersputnik communications satellites.
The first of the two satellites is due to be launched from Kazakhstan in late 1998.
The satellites were expected to bring Mou net profits of $500 million and bail him out of his current crisis, Chen said.
The group has assets worth 1.2 billion yuan and liabilities of just 400 million yuan.
It is not Mou's first crisis. He was sentenced to death but eluded execution in the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution for criticising chairman Mao Zedong.
Mou was released from prison in 1979 and established his company the following year. He was arrested again and jailed for one year on a charge of speculating in the early 1980s.
He ran up huge debts in the mid 1980s but managed to bounce back by importing small refrigerators from South Korea at low tariff rates, raking in millions of yuan.
The birth in 1970 of what would become one of China's top computer firms could hardly have been less auspicious.
Communist cultural revolutionaries roamed the land, schools and universities were in ferment and the computing breakthroughs of the West were locked far away on the other side of China's ideologically-sealed borders.
But for the Nantian Electronic Information Group Corp. the accidental timing of its birth was as much an opportunity as a stumbling block, senior company officials say.
The group, then known as the Yunnan Electronic Equipment Factory, was cradled in the white heat of the late Chairman Mao Zedong's ultra-leftist 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution but found its fortune in the economic reforms that followed Mao's death.
Nantian now makes healthy profits supplying computer systems to state banks struggling to adapt to the booming market economy built by Mao's successors, said group president Zheng Zhigang.
"Nantian's development has been pretty fast," Zheng said in an interview at Nantian's head office in Kunming city, capital of southwestern China's Yunnan province.
Profits in 1995 hit 42.07 million yuan ($5.07 million) on sales that had soared to 927 million yuan from 510 million the year before and from just 100 million yuan in 1990, he said.
Nantian hoped to boost revenues to 1.2 billion yuan in 1996, he said, crediting nimble market footwork and early international cooperation for paving the group's road to national success from a remote frontier province.
"We needed something special to succeed from Kunming," he said. "In 1974 we started to make computers... Even though that was the time of the Cultural Revolution and China was fairly chaotic, we still felt (computers) were important."
Nantian began building contacts abroad in 1978, just two years after Mao's death and in the earliest days of China's opening to the outside world.
The experience helped to inform a crucial choice in the mid-1980s, when the firm decided to narrow its market focus.
"In 1985, we used our expertise to analyse the Chinese market... and we chose banks," Zheng said. "We chose an excellent market target."
Computerisation had become essential for China's staid state banks, which for decades had had little need to hustle for business and were still ill-equipped to supply the financial needs of the new market economy.
It was also a market sector in which little competition existed and where there was a strong demand for computer solutions that would match foreign technology with local knowledge, Zheng said.
Nantian had established cooperation with Italian technology group Olivetti and Unisys Corp of the United States in the 1980s, and in 1993 started working with U.S. computer firm Hewlett Packard Co, he said.
"We have a joint venture with Silicon Graphics to sell and service their graphic workstation in China," he said.
A vital ingredient in Nantian's growth recipe was the company's ability to focus tightly on its chosen market sector.
"Our main market is state banks and other national financial institutions," said Zheng.
"We develop the software with our partners. For the hardware we integrate different companies' equipment with our own for a total solution," said Special Project Manager Chen Deying.
Nantian had established a firm presence in the capital Beijing and in China's financial hotspots of Shanghai, southern Guangzhou and booming Shenzhen near the border with Hong Kong, company officials said.
Dozens of joint-venture subsidiaries in major cities gave Nantian a local presence in its key markets, but the state-owned group remained headquartered in scenic Kunming, they said.
Comprehensive support to ease the difficult transition from pen-pushing to terminal-tapping was essential in the financial world, where customers could become hugely reliant on their new technology, Zheng said.
"We established a support system for computerisation," he said. "This is very important for banks, which need good after-sales service."
Nantian was reported to be keen to issue shares on the Hong Kong stock exchange as early as 1994, but Zheng said the group still had no firm plans and said subsidiaries could float first.
"We have considered (listing) and made some preparations. We will need investment to develop," he said. "We don't have a fixed plan, we will analyse our subsidiaries and choose some of the better ones to consider listing."
No matter how the group found the funding it needed, it planned to remain firmly in the market niche carved in the nation's banking system, company officials said.
"We already have 10 years of history with the banks," said Zheng. "We feel that bank computerisation has just started."
Rupert Murdoch on Tuesday reported that News Corp Ltd had performed below expectations in the first quarter, but he said the global media group was still on track for a 20-percent profit rise this year.
Murdoch, the chairman and chief executive of News Corp, also unveiled a more conservative approach to financing new acquisitions.
"I am on record as saying that we expect a 20-percent increase in profit for the year," Murdoch told a packed News Corp annual meeting in Adelaide.
"We still expect that and are still aiming for that during the coming year. However, I should say that the first quarter may not be quite up to those expectatations, but we will certainly be striving to make up any shortfall," Murdoch said.
Analysts viewed the comments as disappointing and said they were now more sceptical about the 20-percent profit pledge.
"If they can't meet expectations in the first quarter, when they have those strong revenues from Independence Day, then what hope do they have of getting 20 percent in the full year?" asked one Sydney-based media analyst referring to a hit Hollywood movie made by News Corp's Fox studio.
Traders on the Australian share market did not like the first quarter comment either, selling the shares 14 cents or almost two percent lower to close at A$7.20, while the broader Australian equity market closed at a new record high.
In the 1995/96 year ended June 30, News Corp's net profit slipped to A$1.02 billion ($806 million) from A$1.37 billion in 1994/95.
Murdoch said revenues at the Fox U.S. television business had begun 1996/97 slowly because of of the Atlanta Olympic Games, the rights to which were held by a rival network.
Australian newspaper revenues would be flat in 1996/97, said Murdoch.
But he remained buoyant about News' British operations, saying the advertising market there was booming and the partly-owned BSkyB pay television operators was growing strongly.
Murdoch then unveiled a more cautious strategy for financing future expansion.
"As far as possible, we will finance them (News' expansion plans) out of current cash flow to maintain liquidity so that we will be ready to take new opportunities as they arise," he said.
News has often funded its aggressive growth in pay television and other media through either hefty debt or equity issues, which have sometimes met shareholder resistance. It almost collapsed under a debt mountain in the early 1990s.
Analysts said the comments indicated a more conservative approach towards acquisitions and their financing and would be welcomed by the market.
"It imposes a huge financial discipline on the company which would hearten people immensely," said another analyst.
Murdoch also announced that News planned to float its British-based digital media technology company, Digital Media Services, within the next two to three weeks and would sell 20 percent of the company.
Digital Media Services, a combination of News Data Comm and Digi-Media Vision Ltd, would operate in Britain and Israel and produce technology for digital television.
News Corp traditionally holds its annual meetings here in Adelaide, the South Australia city where Rupert Murdoch's father Keith founded the beginnings of the News Corp empire.
(A$1 = $0.79)
China is planning to issue rules to speed development of its key power sector with an expanded role for foreign companies, a Chinese planning official said on Tuesday.
Beijing was reviewing rules governing build-operate-transfer (BOT) projects, which so far have been off limits for foreign companies on major power projects, said Wang Hong of the State Planning Commission.
"The State Council (cabinet) is considering temporary regulations," said Wang, director of the commission's department of foreign finance utilisation.
China has said it needs $20 billion in foreign capital through the year 2000 to meet its targets for power industry development.
Wang said the BOT rules would not be ready in time for the award of the nation's first such power sector project which is expected soon and could cost $600 million to $700 million.
China is now evaluating tenders for the Laibin power project in Guangxi province in southern China, which calls for construction and operation of two 350-megawatt power units.
Beijing says it is using the BOT method on a trial basis.
The winner could be announced within the next month, Wang told Reuters at an energy conference.
Major bidders include industrial giant ABB Asea Brown Boveri AG of Switzerland and a group including Germany's Siemens AG and Hong Kong's China Light &amp; Power Co Ltd.
The winner would construct and operate the plant for a period of time before turning the plant over to China. Its bid would include a plan for domestic electric power rates.
The rules under review would define BOT projects and state when they are acceptable.
They would also specify the approval process, require the use of international tenders and determine the apportioning of risk between China and foreign companies, Wang said.
China generally does not allow foreign entities to hold than a 30 percent stake in key power projects, which are those with a capacity of about 250 megawatts.
Western bankers at the conference said the lack of a clear legal framework for BOT projects coupled with problems in setting domestic electric power rates made it difficult for foreign commercial banks to finance the Laibin project.
Debt reduction, largely through rejigging its vast cable holdings, is the central task of top managers at Time Warner Inc after the $7.5 billion Turner deal, senior executives said on Wednesday.
The company, which last week took control of Turner Broadcasting System Inc, is in active discussions aimed at restructuring its troubled cable-television partnership with U S West Media Group, the executives said.
One Time Warner executive said the talks with U S West are likely to quicken and could yield a deal within months.  
"We want to delever the company, lighten up on cable, and simplify the corporate capital structure," said one executive, speaking on a promise of anonymity.
The executives echoed Ted Turner, founder of Turner Broadcasting and now vice chairman of the combined company as well as its biggest individual shareholder. He has said he wants Time Warner's $17.5 billion debt halved.
Partners since 1992, when regional phone group U S West bought 25 percent of most of Time Warner's cable systems, its film studios and the HBO pay-TV service, the two companies have recently been preoccupied with major acquisitions.  
Time Warner last week completed its takeover of Turner, a deal unsuccessfully opposed in court by U S West. And U S West is expected to close next month its $5.3 billion acqusition of Continental Cablevision, the third-ranked U.S. cable operator.
Time Warner now sees itself with the acquisition of Turner, producer of Cable News Network, The Cartoon Network and two studios, as primarily a programming group, the executives said.
Capital-intensive cable operations are less important and ripe for partial divestment, the executives said. Investment capital can be better used outside cable, the executives said.  
"We look at the opportunities and, hey, we can't do everything," one executive said.
Time Warner earlier reported very strong operational earnings from its cable operations, largely on rate increases, but the company has also committed to spending at least $4 billion to improve its systems through 2000.
The executives declined to discuss possible terms of a U S West agreement but analysts have speculated Time Warner might swap selected cable properties for U S West's equity in HBO and the studios. A key question in such a deal would be how much debt would be taken off Time Warner's books.  
Spin-off of properties is also possible, analysts have said. Time Warner is also said to be considering the sale of Castle Rock, one of the studios owned by Turner Broadcasting.
The executives said a deal with U S West was very important but failure to reach one would not stop the debt-reduction campaign.
A little-noticed deal earlier this year, in which Time Warner swapped some cable properties for a minority interest in a joint venture with Fanch Cablevision of Indiana and the Blackstone Group, could be a model for other cable transactions, the executives said.
"The objective of deleveraging is larger than U S West. The objective of lightening up on cable is larger than U S West," one of the Time Warner executives said.
Shares of Time Warner closed up 1-1/8 at 42.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713
Computer Associates International Inc said Wednesday it would focus an increasing share of its resources on its midrange software business and reduce its reliance on mainframe software sales.
In addition, CA President Sanjay Kurmar said in a phone interview he expected a charge "in the $500 million range" related to the planned acquisition of Cheyenne Software Inc. It would be taken its quarter ending in December.
Kumar also said the company's international sales growth had "slowed some" in the quarter ended in September.  
He said the acquisition was likely to be accounted for as an asset purchase with a one-time writedown for research and development costs instead of a "pooling of interests."
Kumar was confirming comments he and other Computer Associates executives had made in a meeting with Wall Street analysts Wednesday morning.
Analysts who attended the meeting said news of the planned revenue transition and slowing in international sales led to a sharp drop in the company's stock. The decline came in spite of the announcement of fiscal second-quarter results that beat Wall Street expectations.
GTE Corp said on Wednesday that it expects to continue increasing earnings per share by at least 10 percent for the forseeable future, on revenues seen rising six to eight percent per year.
"At this point there is nothing on the horizon to suggest we should be backing off from that (earlier forecast)," chief financial officer Michael Kelly told Reuters.
GTE earlier reported third quarter earnings per share of $0.78, 10 percent ahead of a year ago and exactly in line with analysts' consensus estimates carried on First Call.  
However, analysts were pleased by very strong growth in the business fundamentals, which included an industry-leading 7.4 percent rise in access lines and a 20 percent growth in cellular users. The stock was 2-3/4 firmer at 41-3/8 in early afternoon.
Kelly was delighted with GTE's line growth.  "We just don't see it stopping; its unbelievably strong," he said.
GTE's local calling areas are mostly suburban, where families who telecommute are most likely to live, and where families have adolescent children who need their own lines -- as well as a computer or two in the home needing a line.  
On top of this GTE areas are concentrated in Sunbelt areas like Florida, where economic growth has been very strong, or California, where it is rebounding from recent weakness.
"GTE is in a position to grow faster that the regional Bells because of their concentration in suburban markets," said Bette Massick of Bear Stearns, noting that an end to sales of local operations has unmasked this growth.
Kelly said that GTE had worked hard to cut its customer turnover -- or churn -- in cellular services, which increases marketing costs substantially.  Targeting high value customers had paid dividends, without hitting overall growth.  
As a result, average monthly bills are $61 per month, $3 above the industry average, and churn has fallen 18 percent from a year ago.  Most customers are now on term contracts.
"Our (consumer) bad debt is coming down also," Kelly said.
GTE offers long distance across 31 states, including all the areas where it already offers local service -- a privilege which regional Bells will only be allowed when they have proven their own local calling markets are competitive.
It has already garnered 500,000 customers since it began in March and expects to reach one million soon after the end of 1996 at the expense of the industry's big three players.  
"...Most of our business is coming from the three traditional dominant players," Kelly said.
AT&amp;T Corp, MCI Communications Corp and Sprint Corp are the industry's big three.
Kelly said that the long distance customers gained seemed above average in terms of call duration and spending.
GTE in late August began providing customers in Tampa with a single bill for all their GTE cellular, local, long distance and Internet services and will roll this out to new regions as soon as possible.
Single billing has long been desired by the industry as a tool to retain customers, who like the convenience of writing a single monthly check, but few companies have the software in place to support it. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
Third seed Boris Becker, fresh from his first title since injuring his wrist at Wimbledon, cruised to a 6-3 6-4 victory over Denmark's Frederik Fetterlein in the Czech Indoor Open on Wednesday.
Fifth seed Todd Martin also had an easy time in his second round match, downing Italian Cristiano Caratti 6-4 6-1, while eighth seeded Czech Bohdan Ulihrach was not as fortunate, falling 6-4 6-2 to Davis Cup team mate Jiri Novak.
A slightly tired-looking Becker, who won the CA Trophy in Vienna on Sunday, looked rusty at times, missing easy volleys. But his booming serve and crisp groundstrokes kept Fetterlein, ranked 129th in the world, permanently on the back foot.
"I have good days and bad days with my hand...it was sore in the match but I managed to fight through it and hopefully it will be alright tomorrow," said Becker who needed just over an hour to defeat his opponent.
The world number six tried to return to the circuit last month, but recurring problems with the ligament he tore in a third round match at Wimbledon forced him to retire from the first round in Bucharest, lose in the second round in Basle and withdraw from Lyon two weeks ago.
His return to form may be just enough to earn the 28-year-old a record 12th appearance at the ATP Tour Championships at the end of the year. Becker currently trails South African Wayne Ferreira, seeded second in Ostrava, by only 46 points for the eighth and final spot in Hanover.
Martin, ranked 11th in the world, also had little trouble disposing of Caratti, needing just 49 minutes for his straight sets win.
For Ulihrach, meeting a Davis Cup team mate for the second consecutive day proved too much, as he put up little resistance to Novak.
The previous day Ulihrach beat Daniel Vacek, ranked one spot below him at 36th, but could not recapture the service return which propelled him into the second round against Novak, ranked 40th.
Wickes Plc, the British Do-It-Yourself retailer rocked by accounting irregularities this summer, said on Wednesday the first cost was a 51 million pounds ($80.84 million) write-off for which its ex-chairman accepted responsibility.
The retailer said the problems had resulted in profits being overstated by 51 million pounds ($80.8 million) over recent years and that amount will be wiped off shareholder funds.
The restatement of the accounts will result in a reduction of 26 million pounds in operating profit for 1995, 14 million pounds for 1994 and 11 million pounds for earlier years.
Profits for 1995 will also be hit by a two million pounds charge against shareholder funds relating to European businesses and a 10 million pounds charge stemming from property interests.
But the cost does not end there. Finance director Bill Hoskins, brought in after the purge which saw former chairman and chief executive Henry Sweetbaum resign, told Reuters he expected another one-off charge against 1996 results.
This relates to restructuring and the costs of the investigation into the accounting problems uncovered in June. Hoskins told Reuters: "Taking the two together, the cost won't be tens of millions, but around 10 million."
The company will now undergo a refinancing rights issue. Hoskin said 30 million pounds would be "a good starting point" and be used to cut gearing (the debt-to-equity ratio) which remains "pretty horrid."
The new chairman Michael von Brentano said in a letter to shareholders his predecessor Sweetbaum accepted "ultimate responsibility" and would repay his 1.2 million pounds in bonus payments including tax.
Former finance director Trefor Llewellyn has agreed to repay his 485,000 pounds bonus for 1995.
The group is seeking a new chief executive and said it also intends to strengthen non-executive representation on its board.
Disciplinary action has been taken against two Wickes directors with responsibility for the buying department, both of whom have resigned. Further action against other middle ranking executives and more junior employees will be taken in due course, the company said.
Wickes will replace auditors Arthur Andersen once the work is completed on revisions, but it reserved the right to take action against it.
"I appreciate that much of what I have written will be very disappointing to you," von Brentano's letter said. "But now my principal concern is to secure the company's future, define the appropriate cost base and reassert the group's market strengths," he said.
Hoskins also spoke of a new start, telling Reuters "We want to make a clear distinction between the past and the future. It is essential that we draw a line in the sand."
But the path to profitability still looks rocky. Nick Bubb, analyst at MeesPierson said there were two disappointments: "The company is losing money this year, admittedly partly because of large exceptional items, and the fact that the debt is as high as it is at 65 million pounds - that is a big increase and I can see why a rights issue is needed."
But he added that 30 million pounds was seen as the bare minimum. This would cut gearing to just 70 percent. "It may need to raise as much as 40 or 50 million and that won't be easy," said Bubb.
Wickes shares remain suspended at 69 pence, frozen at that level since the problems were uncovered in June. They will not resume trading until early 1997. ($1=.6309 Pound)
A chill swept through the Canadian village of Nain this month when a small plane carrying two mineral explorers disappeared in a snow squall.
Prospectors passing through the town near the huge Voisey's Bay nickel deposit, believed to be one of the largest in the world, spoke quietly about the missing men from Vancouver-based Castle Rock Exploration Corp., speculating about what happened, imagining themselves in their position.
"I fly a lot over this area, and you just never know," said Capt. Luc Plourde at the military base in Goose Bay, Labrador. "It's a rugged terrain. You can't imagine what it's like to survive out there."
Two hundred exploration companies are active in Labrador, staking more than 250,000 claims in the past two years and investing about C$85 million ($62.9 million U.S.) so far this year. About 184,000 diamond drill holes have been plunged into the dome-shaped hills that dot the sparse landscape, and only one site, Voisey's Bay, has revealed anything significant.
The nickel, copper and cobalt deposits at Voisey's Bay are among the biggest base metals discoveries ever. The world-class finds boosted stock in Vancouver-based Diamond Fields Resources Inc. from pennies to more than C$42 ($31) before the company was taken over by Toronto-based nickel giant Inco Ltd.
Exploration companies and investors from all over Canada want their own Cinderella story. The discomforts at most camps are tempered by hot running water, radio, videos, laundry facilities and good, hearty food, but stories of people being blown off cliffs, tents torn by the wind, and bad exploration luck persist.
"The feeling is another Voisey's Bay will be found, but at great depth," said geologist Kevin Brewer, who heads an exploration management service and works with several companies in the area.
The Voisey's Bay deposit was discovered in late 1993 by a pair of explorers who initially set out to look for diamonds. As the story goes, they spotted a rusty outcrop of mineralised rock, tested it and hit the jackpot.
No one else has been that lucky, noted Brewer.
"When you fly over the country, you see hundreds of really large rusty zones," he said in an interview in St John's, Newfoundland. "You see similar brilliant rusty hills, oxidised rocks that look tremendous. But there's nothing in them."
Many of the mining companies are giving up, but a few have made long-term financial commitments to continue drilling.
"It's really hard for a junior mining company now," observed Brewer. "You have to have more than a really good showing on the surface. People want drill results."
But David Barbour, in charge of exploration for Vancouver-based NDT Ventures Ltd., is still optimistic.
"There's lots of mineralisation kicking around out there," he said in an interview in the warm and spacious kitchen tent at one of NDT's snowy sites near Nain.
"The biggest setback to actually finding something is there's not much known about the geology of the area. There's so much land that hasn't been touched," said Wayne Jenkins, a Nain-based expediter for exploration companies.
The millions of dollars and influx of people in this forgotten patch of Canada have changed the isolated region permanently.
Residents of Nain and Goose Bay, about 250 miles (400 km) away, have started investing in junior mining stocks. Housing starts and new businesses in Goose Bay are booming.
In Nain, rents have soared. Expansion of the village is impossible because of a border of huge cliffs and hills as well as a shortage of municipal money for water, sewerage and electricity. What little space is available can command thousands of dollars a month in rent.
Helicopters and aircraft fly into Nain in a constant stream. Some new businesses have appeared along Nain's pot-holed, muddy streets.
The noise and activity have offended many of the Inuit, or Eskimos, who live in Nain. "There is the mindset that when you come to Labrador, you can do anything you want," said William Barbour, president of the Labrador Inuit Association, which acts as a regional government.
The Inuit have been trying to negotiate a land claim with the provincial government for 19 years, but mining companies seem to get permission to lay claims as a matter of course, he complained.
"It seems like the mining companies come first, not the community," added Fran Williams, who heads a local aboriginal radio station.
The Labrador Inuit Association has started issuing report cards to exploration companies as a reminder that they are under close scrutiny.
China has banned imports of poultry from 10 U.S. states because of fears the meat carries a fowl plague, a U.S. embassy official in Beijing said Wednesday.
The ban threatens an export market worth about $500 million a year.
"China has placed a ban on imports of all poultry and poultry products from 10 states," the official said.
Chinese authorities had voiced fears the poultry products carried a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza, or HPAI, he said.
The states affected are Arkansas, Florida, Maryland, Utah Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Texas and Wisconsin.
The U.S. embassy official, who asked not to be identified, said there seemed to be some confusion on the part of Chinese quarantine officials over the difference between HPAI and avian influenza, or AI.
"HPAI has not been found in the U.S. since 1984 and we believe there has been some confusion about the type of AI virus found in the United States and noted by China," he said.
A U.S. quarantine official based in China told Reuters last week that the virus could not be transmitted to people who ate the meat of infected birds.
China is the second-biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products. It is the only market for U.S. chicken feet.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled 330,000 tons transshipped through Hong Kong alone, worth $445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
Every day 30 23-ton containers of U.S. chicken feet crossed the border from Hong Kong into China, according to the council's spokeswoman, Sarah Li.
The AI virus could be found worldwide, particularly in wild fowl, the embassy official said, and had not been isolated from commercial poultry flocks in the United States.
Another U.S. official told Reuters the AI virus may have been detected in ostriches imported from the United States as breeding stock on Chinese ostrich farms.
"Ostrich raising in China has become very popular and a lot of the breeding stock is brought in from the U.S.," the marketing official said.
"We heard that some of the ostrich breeding stock had been found to have AI," said the official, who requested anonymity.
News of the ban surfaced last week and was confirmed by Chinese quarantine officials to the U.S. embassy on Friday.
Officials of China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine and the U.S. Embassy in Beijing met Tuesday in an effort to resolve the issue, the embassy official said.
"It was a frank, candid and open meeting -- they listened to us and agreed that we should talk more about it, which we will as soon as possible," the official said.
"Basically, we said we think there's been a misunderstanding, but they said what if it (the AI virus) mutates? We said it didn't and they rejected that," he said.
Officials of the U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service were to travel from the United States to meet their Chinese counterparts, but no date had been fixed.
British Airways plans to offer more passenger flights to Hong Kong but will not be changing the current wet lease freighter service to the territory, said chief executive Robert Ayling.
"We quite successfully expanded our cargo business by bringing in quite a substantial proportion of freighter capacity from outside the airline and I don't see why that should not continue. It's true Hong Kong is a particularly good market for freight and I am sure the air cargo industry will continue in the future," Ayling told reporters in Hong Kong. He is visiting the territory as part of a tour of key BA destinations with the theme 'Taking British Airways into the new millennium.' promoting how he will be "reinventing" the airline
"We have had a firm policy for the past ten years not to buy freighters and I see no reason to change that. I think if you asked KLM and Lufthansa, they would prefer to be in my position. I think we will continue to operate freighters but only on a wet lease basis not involving any capital expenditure," he added.
BA says it currently offers a three times weekly service between London Gatwick and Hong Kong using a Boeing 747-200 freighter wet leased from Atlas Air Inc. It also has 14 Boeing 747-400 passenger flights a week to London offering belly cargo capacity. The airline says it hopes to increase the twice daily frequency when slots at Heathrow become available and before Hong Kong's new airport opens in 1998.
Rivals Virgin Atlantic recently said that it does not have enough capacity on the London to Hong Kong route and is considering replacing its popular but smaller Airbus A340 aircraft with higher capacity Boeing 747-400 aircraft to meet demand. But Virgin managers said it has no immediate plans to enter the freighter market. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
American cargo carrier Evergreen International Airlines Inc said on Wednesday it has increased the number of flights from Hong Kong due of high trans-Pacific demand.
Evergreen has six weekly Boeing 747 freighter flights a week instead of four per week and said it can't keep up with current demand.
"All flights are absolutely full and if we had additional flights into Hong Kong we would have no problem filling them because there is a lot of freight being moved and a backlog is building up," said Evergreen's vice-president Kersti Krepp told Reuters.
The additional flights on Mondays are to both the U.S. east and west coast - Columbus, Ohio then onto New York and Los Angeles. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
An estimated 50,000 to 100,000 people in China are infected with the HIV virus but many Chinese still know little about the deadly AIDS disease it can cause, health officials said on Wednesday.
China was at a critical stage in its fight against AIDS, but a campaign launched by Beijing's communist leadership to promote "spiritual civilisation" -- or puritan Marxism values -- would help cut the cases caused by unsafe sex and drug use, the Xinhua news agency said.
Officials said they also planned to strengthen publicity to promote condom use.
China's official total for the number of people infected with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) remained around 3,400.-- up from 3,341 at the end of 1995.
But tens of thousands of other cases went uncounted, a Ministry of Public Health official said.
Experts estimated the actual number of HIV infections at between 50,000 and 100,000 people, she told Reuters by telephone.
China was continuing to clamp down on drug abuse, strengthen controls on blood for medical transfusions and boost anti-AIDS education and was currently holding a three-day national meeting on the disease in Beijing, another ministry official said.
Officials would launch a series of activities in December to promote awareness and knowledge of AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome), he said.
"Many people do not even know how AIDS is transmitted," he said in a telephone interview.
The HIV virus is transmitted through direct contact with the body fluids of an infected person and can be spread through sexual contact, transfusions of infected blood or the use of dirty needles by drug addicts.
AIDS would not spread rapidly in China, although infection by all these routes was already occurring, the official Xinhua news agency quoted Professor Dai Zhicheng, vice president of the National Aids Committee, as saying.
"AIDS is spreading very fast in some neighbouring countries of China, and it is being transmitted through every possible method in our country," Dai said.
"China is at a critical point in its AIDS control, but some new measures will be adopted to slow down the spread of the disease," he said.
Xinhua said the official count of people infected with HIV was expected to approach 5,000 by the end of 1996, but doctors have warned widespread misdiagnosis amd insufficient reporting mean the real total may have long since passed 100,000.
Officials planned to set up a national AIDS control centre and improve monitoring networks. Regulations or laws on blood administration would also be published, Dai said.
Beijing's campaign to promote ethical progress, regarded by analysts as a bid to bolster the authority of the ruling Communist Party and boost socialist values weakened by economic reforms, would help in China's fight against AIDS, Dai said.
Overseas experience had shown that condoms were an effective way to prevent AIDS and China had launched an experimental campaign to promote condom use in Shanghai in 1994, said the health ministry official.
"The result was not very good," he said. "Many people feel willing to use condoms if they are free... but not if they are sold."
Chinese dissident Wang Xizhe's flight to the United States via Hong Kong may be the last great escape of its kind, as China is sure to try to shut down the route next year, activists and analysts said on Wednesday.
Since Beijing sent tanks into Tiananmen Square in 1989 to put down a student-led protest movement, hundreds of Chinese dissidents have fled through Hong Kong in a secretive operation codenamed Yellowbird, activists said.
Wang, now in the United States, has not appeared in public yet, and it has not been confirmed that it was Yellowbird that helped him flee from the south China province of Guangdong last Friday.
But the underground escape route is bound to be sealed off when Hong Kong becomes a part of China next July 1, ending a century and a half of British colonial rule.
"China will have sovereignty here and technically it could prevent even a dissident who was given asylum by a foreign consulate here from actually leaving the territory," Robin Munro, director of Human Rights Watch Asia, told Reuters.
"So I expect that it's virtually going to come to an end as of July next year."
China on Tuesday loudly signalled its stance on future dissident tangles with Hong Kong. It branded Wang's escape an illegal frontier crossing and demanded that he and his abettors be punished for breaking the law.
"The judicial authorities are currently pursuing the legal responsibilities of Wang Xizhe and the plotters," foreign ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said in Beijing.
Very few in Hong Kong have any illusions that the territory will continue to be a conduit for dissidents to get out, or as a centre of pro-democracy anti-communist activism after 1997.
"Hong Kong will be subject to more pressure from the central government. Therefore it will be more difficult for dissidents to use Hong Kong as an escape route," said Peter Lee, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
And those who help Chinese dissidents may have a tough time. "I think they will be liable to some kind of harassment and otherwise legal punishment," Lee said.
Lee Wing-tat, a legislator and key figure in the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China, an organisation that supports fleeing dissidents, said his group was likely to face trouble from China next year.
"A Chinese official made a statement a few months ago. He said if people participated in helping political dissidents escape from China, China will do something... My guess is some kind of punishment," Lee Wing-tat said.
But his group was pressing on with help for dissidents who are now exiled in Hong Kong and seeking asylum in the West.
"We will give them assistance, for example we will arrange some places for them to live, contact the Hong Kong government and foreign consulates, and arrange money for their family."
China's communist rulers have made clear they will not allow Hong Kong to become a centre of subversion.
China's Hong Kong policy boss Lu Ping said this year Beijing would not tolerate anti-constitutional preaching in Hong Kong.
Munro sees a bleak future for the Chinese dissidents in exile here after the handover and says they should all get out.
The three foremost candidates for Hong Kong's post-colonial leadership, who are now campaigning for support, made clear on Tuesday they would not upset Beijing by defending dissidents.
"There will be laws in Hong Kong and it is up to the chief executive to implement and obey the law... Whatever one does, it must be in the interests of of Hong Kong people," said shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, considered China's favourite candidate.
Prodigy Inc. said Wednesday that on Monday it will launch its Internet-based version of the Prodigy online service, called Prodigy Internet, with two pricing models, including a flat-rate plan of $19.95 a month for unlimited service.
The company said its introduction of Prodigy Internet makes it the first of the original three commercial online service companies to offer its rebuilt service, embracing the open technological and content standards of the Internet, the global computer network.
Prodigy also said its Internet focus will form the basis of its international expansion plans, and that it will offer a Spanish-language version of Prodigy Internet in Mexico early next year.
Sources close to the White Plains, N.Y.-based company said the online service plans to spend about $100 million in 1997 to market the new service, through advertising in newspapers, magazines, trade journals and radio, but for now it has no plans for television, because it feels it has an established brand name.
Prodigy Internet is targeted at the "New to the Net" market and the 90 percent of American homes that have yet to sign up for an online or Internet service provider.
"The focus of the new offering is certainly not focused at our existing subscriber base," company President Paul Delacey, said in a telephone interview. "It's focused at the very broad market out there who are not current users or who are users of bare-bones ISPs (Internet service providers), who are looking for more for their money."
Prodigy Internet is designed to overcome current limitations in navigating the Internet while also addressing the fears and anxieties that many Internet novices experience.
Prodigy Internet would offer two pricing schemes -- a low-cost, entry-level plan for low-volume users and a flat-rate plan for Internet enthusiasts.
The company said its basic plan costs $9.95 a month for 10 hours usage of both regular Prodigy and Internet content, with additional hours at $2.50 each.
The other plan costs $19.95 a month and provides unlimited access to Prodigy, Prodigy Internet and add-on features not available elsewhere, the company said .
Prodigy will still offer its current proprietary online service, which it is calling Prodigy Classic, but it will offer incentives for its current members to migrate to Prodigy Internet, such as two months free, with 20 hours of usage.
"We expect that it's going to be a long, protracted service," Delacey said. "I wouldn't be surprised if we are still offering Prodigy Classic a few years from now."
Prodigy will be the first to deliver an Internet-based service of the three major online service providers.
One rival, CompuServe Inc. of Columbus, Ohio, has announced plans to rebuild its service around Internet protocols and standards, but it has not yet begun offering its Internet-based service.
The leading online service provider, America Online Inc., says it brings more users to the Internet via its proprietary service, but it does not have any immediate plans to move its service to the Internet.
And indeed, AOL and other industry pundits, some of whom have predicted the demise of online services because of the growth of the Internet, are seeeing a blurring of distrinctions between online services and the Net.
AOL says it is the Internet and a whole lot more.
Last week, the fourth major entrant in online services, Microsoft Corp., rolled out a hybrid Internet online service as it relaunched the Microsoft Network.
Since its August 1995 rollout, Microsoft has become the third-largest online service, as Prodigy membership has declined. Prodigy says it currently has 1 million households, or about 1.6 million total members. But some analysts dispute these figures, saying it has fewer members.
Prodigy also announced a licensing deal with privately held Progressive Networks to provide Real Audio technology to be integrated with Prodigy Internet. Real Audio software enables users to listen to music and other audio material on the Net.
Prodigy also said that its Africa Online unit is now providing Internet access in Ivory Coast as well as in Kenya.
Prodigy said its Internet service is designed to work with two leading Web browsers, Microsoft Corp.'s Internet Explorer and Netscape Communications Corp.'s Navigator, but Internet Explorer is its preferred browser through a cross-distribution pact announced last week.
The online service, formerly a joint venture owned by International Business Machines Corp. and Sears Roebuck Corp., is now owned by a group of private investors, including Grupo Carso, a leading Mexican industrial company.
In July, the privately held investor group, called International Wireless, merged with Prodigy. The group's founders, Greg Carr and Delacey, are now at the helm of Prodigy. Carr is chairman of Prodigy Inc.
Apple Computer Inc. stunned investors Wednesday by reporting an unexpected $25 million profit for the last three months of its fiscal year.
The Cupertino, Calif.-based computer maker, which had been expected to lose around 30 cents a share in the quarter, posted a profit of 20 cents a share, the first time Apple was in the black this year.
Included in the operating results for the fourth quarter of Apple's fiscal 1996 was a gain of $17 million, or 14 cents a share.
Wall Street welcomed the news, bidding the company's stock price up $2.25 to $28 a share in after-hours trading.
Analysts cited improved manufacturing efficiencies, lower component costs and reduced operating expenses for the better-than-expected performance.
"It is a shock," said Daniel Kunstler, computer industry analyst at JP Morgan. "It seems they've brought the break-even point for their business down pretty dramatically. This is very encouraging."
In the year-ago quarter, Apple earned $60 million, or 48 cents a share. Revenues for the three months ended in September fell to $2.32 billion from $3.0 billion a year ago.
For the full year, Apple posted a loss of $816 million, or $6.59 a share, reflecting a series of hefty one-time charges for inventory writedowns and restructurings.
In fiscal 1995, Apple earned $424 million, or $3.45 a share.
During the year, Apple was hurt by a sharp decline in its market share, management turmoil and an inability to have the right products on the shelf at the right time.
However, in the last two quarters Apple has started to show signs of a turnaround under former National Semiconductor Corp. chief Gilbert Amelio.
In a statement, Amelio said Apple's financial situation is stablized, as evidenced by the improvement in gross margins during the quarter and cash flow.
"By increasing revenues sequentially and fortifying Apple's financial position in each of the last two quarters, we have achieved two very critical goals of Apple's transformation," Amelio said. "We remain confident about reaching sustainable profitability by the end of Q2 '97.
"As we move forward, our challenges will be to extend our competitive leadership in key markets and to reclaim the mantle of industry pioneer and innovator," he said.
Apple's gross margins -- the difference between what it sells its products for and the cost of goods -- rose to 22 percent in the fourth quarter from 18.5 percent in the third quarter.
More importantly, however, Apple ended the quarter with more than $1.7 billion in cash and short-term investments on hand, up from $952 million a year ago.
"We continue to make progress in strengthening Apple's financial condition, as our $410 million in positive cash flow from operations during the quarter suggests," said Apple Chief Financial Officer Fred  Anderson. "We've reduced inventories by nearly $400 million since June and completed the quarter with over $1.7 billion in cash and short-term investments."
"Gross margins increased due to several factors, including declining component costs, improved manufacturing efficiencies, and sales of previously reserved inventory," he added. "We achieved further sequential reductions in operating expenses, primarily in general and administrative functions."
While shipments were down 26 percent in the fourth quarter to 932,000 units from the year-ago quarter, Apple said shipments were up 11 percent, a sign that customers were once again buying its products.
Sun Microsystems Inc. stock took a beating Wednesday despite reporting a sharp rise in earnings that topped Wall Street's average forecasts and set milestones for its typically weak first fiscal quarter.
The Mountain View, Calif.-based computer maker said late Tuesday that its profits jumped 45 percent in its fiscal first quarter to $123.4 million, or 63 cents a share, from $84.7 million, or 42 cents a share, in the 1995 quarter. It cited continued strong sales of its computer workstations.
The profits were a shade above Wall Street analysts' average forecast of 61 cents a share as compiled by First Call, which tracks earnings estimates, but investors started taking profits in after-hours trading Tuesday.
Traders noted the stock had run up ahead of the report, and that while Sun's numbers were strong, they were not as strong as had some on Wall Street had been expecting.
Furthermore, some analysts expressed concerns over whether Sun will be able to match the performance in the future in an increasingly competitive market for workstations as rivals introduce new models of their own.
The stock of the Mountain View, Calif.-based computer maker touched its all-time high of $70.25 Tuesday before the earnings report and ended regular trading at $70. But it fell $4 in after-hours trading following the report.
The freefall continued Wednesday, with the shares off as much as $7.625 at one point at a session low of $62.375 and closing the day at $63.125, down $6.875 on Nasdaq trading volume of nearly 18 million shares. It was the most actively traded stock on the exchange.
"We've got to believe there's some profit-taking going on," Sun Chairman Scott McNealy told reporters in a conference call Tuesday when informed of the after-hours decline.
A number of analysts trimmed their ratings on the 14-year-old computer maker, mostly saying the stock's price had already soared to near their 12-month trading targets and that the downgrades were based on valuation rather than fndamentals.
Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Mulunovich, for example, cut his rating to "outperform" from a "strong buy", with a price target of $75 on the stock. However, he also raised his fiscal 1997 earnings estimate to $3.35 a share from $3.30.
The company reported record earnings per share of $2.42 in its 1996 fiscal year, which ended in June.
Alex. Brown analyst Phil Rueppel also cut his rating, to a "buy" from a "strong buy" and Ferman Selz removed the stock from its recommended list after it hit its $70 price target.
A few analysts also expressed concern that although Sun has received a great deal of publicity over its Java technology, it also will face stiff competition from rivals Hewlett-Packard Co. and Silicon Graphics Inc., which have just introduced speedy new computer models.
Other competitors, like personal computer maker Compaq Computer Corp., are also expected to jump into the market with workstations to compete in the high-end market for machines which has long been dominated by a handful of firms.
"His new competitors are Compaq and Dell Computer. The enemy isn't the traditional competitor but a new class of people that can compete in this space," said David Wu, an analyst at Chicago Corp.
Sun scored a small coup Wednesday by hiring Mark Canepa -- a Hewlett-Packard veteran who was just named by Compaq last month to head up its newly formed workstation division -- to instead be vice president of Sun's Workgroup Server Products Group.
Stock in Compaq, whose third quarter earnings also surpassed Wall Street estimates, also fell, closing down $1.50 ato $73.625 in New York Stock Exchange trading.
Some analysts said they saw the weakness in Sun's stock as a buying opportunity.
Dean Witter analyst Jay Stevens said he raised his earnings estimates for Sun and reiterated a buy rating.
"They delivered a very fine quarter," Stevens said.
Riding rising U.S. cable TV fees, Time Warner Inc said on Wednesday its earnings before heavy debt payments shot up 32 percent in the third quarter, compared with the same three months last year.
Covering the quarter before last Thursday's completion of its $7.5 billion acquisition of Turner Broadcasting System, the entertainment group said three hit movies, strong magazine advertising sales helped by the Olympic Games, and good HBO results lifted cash flow to $964 million.
Revenues for the three months ended Sept. 30 were $4.877 billion, up from $4.344 billion a year ago.
Last year's third-quarter cash flow, defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, was $729 million, the company said.
Time Warner, many of whose cable TV and other businesses are co-owned with 25 percent partner U S West Inc. , reported a net loss of $167 million, or 43 cents a share, for the quarter.
Net losses in last year's quarter were $160 million, or 41 cents a share, on 1.5 million more shares outstanding.
Net interest costs were $276 million, up from $259 million in last year's third quarter. Preferred dividends rose to $76 million in the third quarter from $16 million.
Time Warner's stock showed no gain after the results but rose smartly later in the day after top executives told institutional investors that debt reduction was centre stage at the company.
The executives said Time Warner is in active discussions aimed at restructuring its troubled cable-television partnership with U S West Media Group.
One Time Warner executive said the talks with regional phone group U S West, 25 percent owner of most of Time Warner's cable systems, studios and the HBO pay-TV service, are likely to quicken and could yield a deal within months.
"We want to delever the company, lighten up on cable, and simplify the corporate capital structure," said the executive, speaking on a promise of anonymity.
The executives echoed Ted Turner, founder of Turner Broadcasting and now vice chairman of the combined company as well as its biggest individual shareholder. He has said he wants Time Warner's $17.5 billion debt halved.
Time Warner now sees itself with the acquisition of Turner, producer of Cable News Network, The Cartoon Network and two studios, as primarily a programming group, the executives said.
Capital-intensive cable operations are less important and ripe for partial divestment, the executives said. Investment capital can be better used outside cable, the executives said.
EBITDA at Time Warner's cable operations, including those shared with with U S West, rose 14 percent to $512 million, the company said in its earnings report.
Basic cable revenues rose sharply and advertising sales in cable also increased, the company said. With some 12.1 million customers, Time Warner is the nation's second-largest cable operator.
Time Warner also had three summer movies grossing more than $100 million in U.S. ticket sales -- "Twister," "Eraser" and "A Time To Kill" -- and its filmed entertainment unit had an EBITDA rise of 13 percent to $146 million.
HBO's EBITDA rose 23 percent to $91 million. Sales to subscribers to satellite-television services led HBO's strong growth, senior executives said.
The publishing unit's EBITDA was $99 million, or 15 percent more than the $86 million posted in the year-ago quarter. Sports Illustrated, which produced a daily, limited-circulation version of its weekly magazine during the Atlanta Olympics, had particularly strong advertising sales.
The recorded music unit's EBITDA rose $1 million to $143 million from last year's quarter, when the division took an $85 million charge. Small gains in foreign sales were offset by drops in U.S. music sales, the company said.
Time Warner shares rose $1.125 to $42 in New York Stock Exchange Trading.
Compaq Computer Corp., the world's biggest personal computer maker, said Wednesday that profits jumped 43 percent in the third quarter on higher sales of PCs and accessories, as well as streamlined operations.
The results exceeded published estimates on Wall Street, but Compaq's stock fell $1.125 to $73.625 on the New York Stock Exchange after it had risen sharply in recent weeks ahead of the earnings report.
Houston-based Compaq said net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to $350 million, or $1.26 a share, from $245 million, or 89 cents a share, in the 1995 period.
Analysts had forecast earnings of $1.07 a share, according to First Call, which tracks profit estimates.
Sales grew 25 percent to $4.5 billion from $3.6 billion.
Compaq said its accessories business, which includes monitors, hard drives, keyboards and compact disc drives, grew significantly in the third quarter and remained one of its most profitable segments.
"We're very pleased with Compaq's continuing solid financial performance and especially with improvements in earnings and the growth of gross margins to 23.8 percent (of revenues)," Compaq President Eckhard Pfeiffer said.
Compaq said it now has the strongest line-up of products and alliances in its history. At the end of October it plans to launch powerful computer workstations that run Microsoft Corp.'s Windows NT operating system, priced 50 percent below other workstations, for engineers and other users.
The company said it still expected a good fourth quarter, which is traditionally its strongest, driven by Christmas sales of PCs.
"Demand is strong," said John Dean, a Salomon Brothers analyst. "In June, they rolled out their best product line they have ever had and their competition has not done a great job in some international markets, such as Europe."
Compaq Chief Financial Officer Earl Mason said in an interview that he was comfortable with analysts' estimates of $1.40 a share for the fourth quarter, but many analysts said he was being cautious.
"He is clearly conservative," said Eugene Glazer, a Dean Witter analyst. "This is the same man who said on the second-quarter conference call that he was comfortable with $1.03 a share and they came in at $1.25 a share."
In the quarter, Compaq generated almost three times as much cash as in the year-earlier period, $3.2 billion, through improved inventory, asset and receivables management.
"As the team continues to work on the balance sheet as a major focus and as we continue to focus on operations, cash ought to increase," Mason said.
He said Compaq plans to expand its international sales operations and may also make selective acquisitions in the computer networking and corporate-wide computing areas.
Net income for the first nine months of 1996 grew 20 percent to $851 million, or $3.07 a share, from $707 million, or $2.59 a share. Revenues rose to $12.7 billion from $10.1 billion.
New pickup trucks and sport/utility vehicles helped Ford Motor Co.'s third-quarter profits nearly double to $686 million, the company said Wednesday, but it alarmed analysts with growing losses in Europe.
Ford eeked out a $15 million profit from its worldwide automotive operations -- versus a loss of $201 million a year ago -- as U.S. automotive net income of $634 million was offset by a loss of $619 million from non-U.S. regions.
Ford's third-quarter profits, which amounted to 56 cents a share, compared with $357 million, or 27 cents a share, in the year-ago period. The latest results were in line with Wall Street expectations.
Results from Ford finished a strong third quarter for Detroit's Big Three. The companies posted combined net profits of $2.64 billion, more than twice the $1.11 billion they reported a year ago.
Although there were some favourable one-time events, the Big Three have digested heavy launch costs and reaped the benefits of a 10 percent volume increase, said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities Inc.
In the third quarter, Ford's European loss widened substantially to $472 million from a $320 million loss a year ago, surprising many analysts.
"The size of the loss was enormous," Healy said.
Ford blamed new product launches, adverse vehicle mixes and continued high marketing costs. Vice President David McCammon said the automaker is taking steps to cut costs by reviewing product, material, personnel and plant expenses.
In a sign of how seriously it is taking the situation, Ford Chairman Alex Trotman was on his way to visit operations in Europe, and Chief Financial Officer John Devine was scheduled to leave for Europe Wednesday.
"We were unhappy with our European results," McCammon told reporters, adding that he hopes the situation can be turned around by next year.
Although McCammon said the fourth-quarter results will be up from the $660 million Ford earned in the 1995 quarter, analysts indicated they would be trimming their estimates because of a $300 million to $400 million fourth-quarter charge to cover early retirement costs for about 4,000 salaried employees.
Devine told analysts that South America will post a loss similar to the $226 million deficit of the third quarter because of continuing start-up problems in Brazil.
"Brazil is likely to be just as bad" in the fourth quarter, said Nicholas Lobacarro, an analyst at Bear Stearns.
Helping Ford's bottom line was another strong performance from its Financial Services Group. The unit earned $671 million, including a gain of $76 million from the sale of USL Capital assets, compared with a profit of $558 million in the 1995 third quarter.
The Associates, Ford's consumer finance unit, reported third-quarter earnings of $230 million, a record for any quarter. However, Ford Credit's earnings slipped to $299 million from $357 million a year ago, reflecting higher credit losses.
The company's earnings were negatively affected by a $39 million charge to cover the costs of early retirements for U.S. salaried employees.
In the U.S. market, the latest results were spurred by strong acceptance of new light truck products such as the F-Series pickup truck and new Expedition full-size sport/utility vehicle, Trotman said in a statement accompanying the results.
Third-quarter revenues climbed to $34 billion from $31.4 billion. Worldwide vehicle unit sales in the quarter were also up, increasing to 1,452,000 from 1,435,000.
But the automaker lost market share in both the United States and western Europe. Ford ended the quarter with 24.5 percent of the U.S. car and truck market, down from 24.8 percent in both the second quarter of 1996 and the third quarter of 1995.
Ford lost a full point of market share in western Europe, falling to 11.8 percent from 12.8 percent in the year-ago quarter. Ford's share in the second quarter was 12.0 percent.
Trotman said Ford expects U.S. total vehicle sales to be 15.5 million for 1996, about in line with its earlier forecasts. The industry had 15.1 million sales in 1995.
In Western Europe, Ford forecasts industry sales at 14.2 million for 1996, up from 13.4 million in 1995. Ford expects moderate economic growth to continue in its major worldwide markets, providing for stable industry sales volumes.
Ford's stock lost 75 cents to end at $32.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
GTE Corp. Wednesday said earnings rose 9 percent in the third quarter, boosted by strong demand for new phone lines from people setting up businesses or hooking up computers at home.
The results were in line with expectations, but GTE's stock jumped as investors cheered the report from the nation's largest local telephone company, as well a court ruling late on Tuesday that suspended key parts of federal rules designed to foster competition in local phone markets.
Other local phone company stocks also rose after the ruling by a three-judge appeals court panel in St. Louis. The judges said they had "serious doubts" about the Federal Communication Commission's authority to impose its pricing policies.
The FCC rules, among other things, would require the Baby Bells and other local carriers to lease their phone lines to new competitors at steep discounts of up to 25 percent.
Analysts said state regulators were likely to call for lower discounts. The appellate panel put the new rules on hold while it considers a court challenge to the FCC's plan.
The challenge to the FCC rules had been spearheaded by GTE, which was joined by some of the Baby Bells, other local carriers and state regulators.
"(The legal challenge) improves the probability for getting higher prices to resell local networks than under the FCC guidance," said Bette Massick at brokers Bear Stearns.
GTE jumped $3.625 to $42.25 in consolidated afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Other Bell stocks that rose included BellSouth, up $2.50 to $38.875, Bell Atlantic, ahead $2.125 to $60.875, Nynex, which gained $1.625 to $44.50, Ameritech, up $1.75 to $56.125 and Pacific Telesis, which added $1.375 to $34.625, all on the NYSE.
In its report, Stamford, Conn.-based GTE said net income rose to $756 million, or 78 cents a share, in the quarter ended Sept. 30, from $695 million, or 72 cents a share, in the 1995 period.
The results matched analysts' forecasts of 78 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks estimates. The 1995 figures included a gain of $11 million, or 1 cent a share, from the sale of secondary telephone properties.
Sales grew 7 percent to $5.34 billion from $5.0 billion.
In addition to strong line demand, GTE cited growth in its cellular and long-distance services.
"The continued pace of our revenue growth, driven by record line growth as well as strong demand for new and enhanced services, is particularly encouraging," Chairman Charles Lee said in a statement.
The number of domestic access lines grew 7 percent in the quarter, with more than half the growth in the residential side of the business from additional lines to the home, GTE said.
GTE said its number of cellular customers grew almost 5 percent in the quarter, while cellular revenue surged 15 percent.
It also said it doubled its number of long-distance customers to more than 500,000 from the end of the second quarter.
Computer Associates International Inc. issued its quarterly financial results, soundly beating Wall Street's consensus forecast.
But the stock fell sharply Wednesday morning after company executives told securities analysts they planned to acclerate investments in its personal computer-based corporate software products and de-emphasise mainframe software sales.
Analysts also said some investors were spooked by a slowdown in the company's international sales, which fell about 5 percent in the latest quarter ended in September compared to a year ago.
Computer Associates shares lost more than than $4 in early trading but regained some ground later in the day after several analysts reaffirmed "buy" ratings on the stock and raised their future earnings projections on the company.
The stock closed at $62.875, down $2.75 on the day, in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
In a phone interview, Computer Associates President Sanjay Kumar confirmed the company planned to increase its investments in its PC-related mid-range software business.
"In reality, (mid-range software) is the right place to be," Kumar said of the company's planned shift in emphasis. "It is the high-growth business."
The executive said mid-range software amounted to about 31 percent of overall revenue in the latest quarter and was the fastest-growing portion of its business, with sales rising 56 percent above last year's September quarter, he said.
"What we neeed to do is engineer the business to move in that direction," Kumar said.
But mainframe software continues to account for more than twice the revenues of mid-range products, or 63 percent of the latest quarter's total reveneues of $990 million.
Mainframe sales rose 10 percent compared to the year-ago quarter, a rate Kumar said he expected would continue.
The remaining 6 percent of revenues derived from its small consumer accounting software and systems integration business.
Computer Associates has long been the world's leading supplier of mainframe software, but in recent years has sought to extend this dominance throughout corporate organisations by developing software used to manage personal computers.
This shift in focus to the smaller, albeit faster-growing part of its business prompted fears among some investors that Computer Assocites was entering a complicated transition.
"In general, you have to be concerned when a company says that it is going to be de-emphasising a part of its business that amounts to 60 percent of (its) revenues," said UBS Securities analyst Joe Farley.
But Farley discounted such concerns, saying the company's move came as no surprise to long-time observers of the business software maker. He embraced the choice to accelerate the company's commitment to the newer, higher-growth business.
"Their actions have already indicated that they are moving that way," Farley said of Computer Associates' increasing shift to PC-based mid-range products. "Their words are following their actions," he said.
Kumar said the company contemplated a "smooth transition" over the next two years.
Mid-range sales will "cross the threshold in fiscal 1998 probably" and become the dominant source of revenue, he said.
In the interview, Kumar also said he expected the company to take a charge "in the $500 million range" related to a writedown of assets in its planned acquisition of Cheyenne Software Inc. during the current quarter ending in December.
The company began a $30.50 per share cash tender offer last Friday for Cheyenne.
The company expects the total cost of the Cheyenne acquisition to come to $1.2 billion, which it plans to fund through a combination of cash reserves and existing credit.
Third-quarter profits for St. Jude Medical Inc were held back by several factors, including a missed heart valve sale to Iran, tax law changes and a dilutive acquisition, said chief executive Ronald Matricaria.
In an interview with Reuters on Wednesday evening, Matricaria also said St. Jude would not rule out possibly someday acquiring Cyberonics Inc, although a proposed merger of the two was called off by St. Jude on Wednesday.
"We're going to maintain our equity position in the company," Matricaria said.  
Although it owns 18 percent of Cyberonics, St. Jude said it will not exercise its option to acquire the remainder, as it had proposed doing earlier this year.
Matricaria declined to comment on analysts' speculation that St. Jude found problems with data from medical trials testing Texas-based Cyberonics' implantable device for treating epilepsy by stimulating the vagus nerve.
"I can't say anything about the data," he said. "The best thing I can tell you is if I had a son or daughter and they were on drug therapy and they weren't getting relief, the first thing I'd look for would be the Cyberonics device."  
St. Paul, Minn.-based St. Jude is the world's largest maker of heart valves and is a major producer of pacemakers and other medical devices. It reported third-quarter earnings of $0.44 per share, up from $0.42 per share from a year ago.
Matricaria said the heart valve business showed no growth in the third quarter because St. Jude failed to land a major order from Iran that it did get in last year's third quarter.
"The timing just wasn't in this quarter. It will probably be the fourth quarter or the first quarter next year. It didn't happen (in the third quarter), so it basically wiped out all of our unit growth," he said.  
Changes in U.S. tax law effecting St. Jude's operations in Puerto Rico cut earnings by about $0.02 per share in the third quarter, Matricaria said.
Recently acquired Daig Corp was St. Jude's fastest-growing unit on the quarter and reported sales of $11.5 million. But the Daig acquisition reduced earnings again this quarter by about 10 percent. Matricaria said he sees that level of earnings dilution continuing until mid-1997.
"For the third and fourth quarters this year and the first and second quarters next year, it will have a dilutive impact ...of about 10 percent," he said, adding Daig is expected to begin adding to profits in the third quarter of 1997.
Research and development spending remained about nine percent of sales in the third quarter.
Finally, Matricaria said St. Jude expects to begin regaining market share in the fourth quarter in the pacemaker market, where it has lost ground recently due to technological shortcomings in its products that have now been overcome.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Archer Daniels Midland Co, which pleaded guilty to price fixing this week, will face tough criticism at its annual meeting Thursday from shareholders seeking to make ADM's board more independent.
"There needs to be dramatic reform at this company, at...both the board and the management level," said Edward Durkin, director of special programs at the United Brotherhood of Carpenters.
The carpenters union is among four institutional shareholders pressing for changes in ADM's board.  
Despite the settlement with the U.S. Justice Department, including the payment of $100 million in fines, corporate governance issues remain at ADM, according to Jon Lukomnik, New York City deputy controller for pensions.
"I think people are looking at this (the Justice settlement) as if it's the last scene in a five-act play. It is not," Lukomnik said.
Going forward, Lukomnik said he is looking for ADM to, over time, enact steps to make its board more independent and to set a succession plan for the eventual retirement of Chairman Dwayne Andreas, aged 78.  
The chairman's son, Vice Chairman Michael Andreas, is among two executives still being investigated by the Justice Department as the price-fixing probe continues. Also being investigated is ADM Group Vice President Terrance Wilson.
"Dwayne Andreas is not young. A person they were grooming to be a successor is the target of an investigation," Lukomnik said, referring to Michael Andreas, who had been seen in the past as a possible successor to the chairman's post.
A shareholder proposal calling for a more independent board at ADM is garnering a significant number of votes.  
The California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS) said earlier a survey of votes cast thus far indicated that 47 percent are in favor of that measure.
CalPERS co-sponsored the proposal with the Florida Retirement System Trust Fund.
"Our primary focus is the proposal," Brad Pacheco, a spokesman for CalPERS, said. "But i think we also need to see some increased oversight (of management by the board)."
Other proposals include a measure by the carpenters to hold directors personally liable for gross negligence. The New York City Fire Department Pension Fund proposed confidential voting for directors when there is no competing proxy.
At last year's annual meeting, Chairman Dwayne Andreas kept a lid on shareholder comments. When Durkin of the carpenters union tried to gain the floor, he was told by the chairman, "This meeting runs according to my rules."
Durkin, who will attend this year's annual meeting, said he was hopeful shareholders would be able to voice their concerns this year.
He added the company had sent him a fax outlining the agenda, when issues will be raised and how much time will be allotted for comments. "There needs to be some basic rights allowed to the (share) owners," Durkin said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Archer Daniels Midland Co., which pleaded guilty to price fixing this week, will face tough criticism at its October 17 annual meeting from shareholders seeking to make ADM's board more independent.
"There needs to be dramatic reform at this company, at...both the board and the management level," said Edward Durkin, director of special programmes at the United Brotherhood of Carpenters.
The carpenters union is among four institutional shareholders pressing for changes in ADM's board.
Despite the settlement with the U.S. Justice Department, including the payment of $100 million in fines, corporate governance issues remain at ADM, according to Jon Lukomnik, New York City deputy controller for pensions.
"I think people are looking at this (the Justice settlement) as if it's the last scene in a five-act play. It is not," Lukomnik said.
Going forward, Lukomnik said he is looking for ADM to, over time, enact steps to make its board more independent and to set a succession plan for the eventual retirement of Chairman Dwayne Andreas, aged 78.
The chairman's son, Vice Chairman Michael Andreas, is among two executives still being investigated by the Justice Department as the price-fixing probe continues. Also being investigated is ADM Group Vice President Terrance Wilson.
"Dwayne Andreas is not young. A person they were grooming to be a successor is the target of an investigation," Lukomnik said, referring to Michael Andreas, who had been seen in the past as a possible successor to the chairman's post.
As previously reported, a shareholder proposal calling for a more independent board at ADM is garnering a significant number of votes.
The California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS) said earlier a survey of votes cast thus far indicated that 47 percent are in favour of that measure.
CalPERS co-sponsored the proposal with the Florida Retirement System Trust Fund.
"Our primary focus is the proposal," Brad Pacheco, a spokesman for CalPERS said. "But i think we also need to see some increased oversight (of management by the board)."
Other proposals include a measure by the carpenters to hold directors personally liable for gross negligence. The New York City Fire Department Pension Fund proposed that shareholders' votes for directors remain confidential when there is no competing proxy.
At last year's annual meeting, Chairman Dwayne Andreas kept a lid on shareholder comments. When Durkin of the carpenters union tried to gain the floor, he was told by the chairman, "This meeting runs according to my rules."
Durkin, who will attend this year's annual meeting, said he was hopeful shareholders would be able to voice their concerns this year.
He added the company had sent him a fax outlining the agenda, when issues will be raised and how much time will be allotted for comments. "There needs to be some basic rights allowed to the (share) owners," Durkin said.
The Justice Department said its price-fixing investigation continues. ADM has agreed to cooperate with probes involving citric acid as well as high fructose corn syrup.
Hoffman-La Roche Inc, the Nutley, N.J. unit of Roche Holding Ltd of Switzerland, said it has been cooperating with the Justice investigation of citric acid, which is used in food, beverages and other products.
A.E. Staley, a unit of Tate and Lyle Plc of the United Kingdom, said it is not a target in the high fructose corn syrup probe and is cooperating with that investigation.
AT&amp;T Corp's proposed successor to Robert Allen as chairman and chief executive will be a surprise, not one of those whose names have been mentioned in the press, sources close to the company said on Wednesday.
Neither Michael Armstrong, President of Hughes Electronics Corp nor William Esrey, chief executive of Sprint Corp are in contention, despite broad press speculation.
The sources declined to identify the true candidate.
AT&amp;T declined comment, as did Korn Ferry International and Spencer Stuart, the executive search firms involved.
AT&amp;T's board met earlier in the day to examine a slate of candidates put forward by the executive search groups for the post of president and chief operating officer, and sources expect an announcement in the next few days.
AT&amp;T reports its third quarter results on Thursday.
"The search had (already) been narrowed to a critical few... and the board, not just Bob Allen, will make the final decision," said one source, declining to be identified.
The post is vacant after Alex Mandl resigned in August to head a tiny new wireless company, Associated Communications.
One possibility is that Allen would split out the role of chief executive to the new candidate in a year or so but retain his chairmanship until nearer retirement.
Allen, a 32-year AT&amp;T career veteran would be reluctant to depart early, but in a recent press interview said he would consider it if a perfect candidate came along.
"AT&amp;T wants a world class marketer and technologist, with considerable experience of leading a major business," one source said.
It is unclear yet whether AT&amp;T will give a clear succession timetable in the announcement for the new post.
Armstrong, Esrey, Eastman Kodak Co chairman George Fisher and James Barksdale, chairman of Netscape Communications Corp, have ruled themselves out of the candidature, but this has not stopped the speculation.
Expectation of an earlier end to Allen's career has been fanned by AT&amp;T's profit warning in September in which it said earnings per share for the third quarter may be 10 percent below analysts expectations.
The warning crowned a bad year for the largest U.S. telecommunications firm.
AT&amp;T incurred the wrath of politicians and the media for announcing 40,000 job cuts in January, but an improved stock performance it was meant to produce has not appeared, so Wall Street and investors are not happy either.
While the company's split into three parts is going ahead as planned, the remainder of AT&amp;T is now more firmly wedded to long distance telecommunications services sector, in which competition is hotting up.
While the Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 16 percent in 1996, AT&amp;T -- adjusted for its split -- is down 14 percent. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712 (c) Reuters Limited 1996
The U.S. Postal Service announced Wednesday a plan to boost online commerce by enhancing the security and reliability of electronic mail traveling on the Internet.
Under the plan, businesses and consumers can verify that e-mail has not been tampered with and use services now available for ordinary mail like sending a certified letter.
"The leap from trading messages to buying and selling goods has been blocked by the fear of security threats," Robert Reisner, vice president of stategic planning, said.  
"To expand from local area networks and bilateral secure communications to wide use of electronic commerce will require a new generation of security services," Reisner said.
Cylink Corp is developing a system for the Post Office to use to verify the identity of e-mail senders. The system will enable people to register a digital "signature" with the Post Office that can be compared against electronic mail they send.
If any tampering is discovered, the Postal Service would investigate, just like it investigates tampering with regular mail, Reisner said.  
The Post Office is also using the Internet to enhance non-electronic mail delivery.
In conjunction with Sun Microsystems, the Postal Service has also developed a new online system for bulk mailers that relies on Sun's Java computer language, Reisner said.
Instead of manually calculating postage rates for bulk mailings, possibly using outdated forms, a bulk mailer will be able to add up the charges using a software application written with Java and posted on the Internet.  
Eventually, the Post Office plans to offer hybrid services involving both kinds of mail, Reisner said.
Electronic mail could be converted to paper and delivered within one business day, for example. Or someone who moves could register a change of address with the Post Office over the Internet.
Critics of the Post Office's Internet plans have said the service is usurping functions that could be better performed by the private sector. But Reisner rejected those arguments, maintaining that the Post Office has often facilitated the spread of new technologies, such as railroads and aircraft.  
"Remember the pilots who returned from World War I and then risked their lives in an even more dangerous duty," Resiner said refering to early airmail delivery efforts.
"To keep these daring pilots alive, the Postal Service had to create parts of what we know as the weather service today. Navigation aids had to be developed. We are watching many of these same dynamics today. Earlier experience tells us that this is a public and private job."
--202-898-8312
Elementary school students with access to the Internet learned more than kids who lacked access, an indepedent research group concluded after conducting a comparative study in seven urban school districts.
"This study dramatically illustrates the positive effects of online use on learning," said Michael Casserly, executive director of the Council of Great City Schools, an association of 49 large inner city public school districts which co-sponsored the study along with Scholastic Corp.
French President Jacques Chirac looked set on Wednesday to achieve his ambition of creating a national defence giant to rival huge U.S. conglomerates through the planned merger of Lagardere's Matra with Thomson- CSF.
The government announced on Wednesday it preferred a bid by missile-maker Lagardere Groupe for electronics firm Thomson SA over a rival one by civilian engineering group Alcatel Alsthom. Both offers have been referred to the independent Privatisation Commission.
The preference for Lagardere seems to vindicates the integration sought by Noel Forgeard, chairman of Lagardere's Matra unit, who has fought a highly-public campaign for Thomson, in order to win its Thomson-CSF defence arm.
The deal will "indisputably strengthen the missiles activity in France and particularly Europe," said Jean-Marc Baron, a partner specialising in defence at consultants KPMG Peat Marwick. "The merger wil create a critical mass," he added.
Matra specialises in air-to-air missiles with the Magic and Mica weapons, while Thomson-CSF has ground-to-air missiles including the Crotale NG (New Generation) and Starstreak very- short-range missile built with Shorts Brothers Plc, a unit of Canada's Bombardier.
The addition of Thomson-CSF reinforces a vital joint venture between Matra and British Aerospace Plc to create Matra BAe Dynamics, which Lagardere wants to be the pole for future European industrial concentration.
Besides the missile synergy, Baron pointed to the benefits of marrying Thomson-CSF's radar and communications expertise with Matra's space satellites, which will give Thomson access to a new market.
Lagardere has major space interests with its Matra Marconi Space (MMS) joint venture with GEC Plc of Britain and also wants to use this a platform for building a single European satellite giant, to make the most of scarce funds.
This vertical integration of detection, communications and weapons makes the future Thomson Matra a powerful "systems" player rather than a seller of separate products. Each of these segments has annual turnover of about $1-$2 billion, Baron said.
In the United States, the defence industry has quickly consolidated through $40 billion of mergers and acquisitions to create giants such as Lockheed Martin. Integration is seen as key, with firms such as Hughes, a unit of General Motors, not only building missiles and satellites but also operating the satellites.
European and U.S. defence firms have had to adapt to shrinking military spending since the end of the Cold War and soaring research and development costs. But Europe has lagged in that restructuring due to differing national interests.
With the aid of Matra's links with BAe and GEC and through overtures to Daimler-Benz Aerospace (Dasa), Forgeard wants to forge a European grouping which would have world class status in terms of turnover and product range.
Chirac launched the privatisation of Thomson SA in February as part of a restructuring of France's fragmented defence industry, widely seen by analysts as a vital step toward a badly needed consolidation of European capacity.
Air France is linking up with two major U.S. carriers, Delta Air Lines and Continental, in a transatlantic alliance crucial to its ability to keep up with its major European rivals.
The French state airline said on Wednesday it had signed separate letters of intent for cooperation with Delta and Continental after a lengthy search for a U.S. partner.
The long-awaited agreements mark a strategic step in Air France's development and tap the huge U.S. travel market to feed its global network while the U.S. companies will carry the French airline's passengers on their domestic routes.
"These agreements crystallise the company's wish to forge a network of global alliances," Air France said in a statement.
The alliances allow so-called code-sharing arrangements between Air France and the U.S. companies, which is a low-cost way of gaining more customers without direct investment.
It means passengers can be issued with a through-ticket by one carrier to be used on its partner airline -- making it possible for airlines to feed passengers to each other without setting up their own routes.
The companies will also harmonise their flight schedules, share a common frequent flyer programme, and provide ground facilities.
Delta operates from its hub at Atlanta, Georgia, while Continental works from Houston, Texas and Air France uses Paris Roissy-Charles De Gaulle airport.
Air France gave no financial details of the link-ups but a spokeswoman said they were expected to bring the loss-making airline savings of $100 million a year.
The airline racked up a net loss of more than two billion francs last year after heavy provisions for restructuring, but has said it hopes to be in profit this financial year.
Air France chairman Christian Blanc has for months been looking for a heavyweight partner to give the airline a global reach and counter the spread of alliances between its rivals.
Air France has previously said it was talking to Continental and Delta, as well as American Airlines of AMR Corp, United Airlines of UAL Corp and USAir Group.
German airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG started code-sharing flights with United Airlines in 1994, paving the way for several other high-profile cooperation deals.
American Airlines this year agreed a controversial alliance with British Airways Plc but regulatory approval has been held up by a row between the British and U.S. governments over an "open skies" agreement.
The planned BA-American alliance has been attacked by rivals as anti-competitive.
French newspapers have said Washington is squaring up for another struggle with France over a bilateral "open skies" pact and would use any alliance by Air France as a lever to push the French to further open up the domestic market.
Air France cautioned the through-ticketing accords with Continental and Delta were subject to government approvals.
Washington and Paris clashed earlier this year when the United States wanted to open bilateral talks on market access and held up U.S. approval of Air France's summer schedule until the French agreed to start negotiations.
Air France and Continental signed a commercial accord back in 1993 but it has never been implemented due to changes in top management at both companies. Continental, among the U.S. majors, does not have a European partner.
AT&amp;T Corp.'s proposed successor to Robert Allen as chairman and chief executive will be a surprise, not one of those whose names have been mentioned in the press, sources close to the company said Wednesday.
Neither Michael Armstrong, president of Hughes Electronics Corp., nor William Esrey, chief executive of Sprint Corp., are in contention, despite broad media speculation.
The sources declined to identify the true candidate.
AT&amp;T declined to comment, as did Korn Ferry International and Spencer Stuart, the executive search firms involved.
AT&amp;T's board met earlier in the day to examine a slate of candidates put forward by the executive search groups for the post of president and chief operating officer, and sources expect an announcement in the next few days.
AT&amp;T reports its third-quarter results Thursday.
"The search had (already) been narrowed to a critical few ... and the board, not just Bob Allen, will make the final decision," said one source, declining to be identified.
The post is vacant after Alex Mandl resigned in August to head a tiny new wireless company, Associated Communications.
One possibility is that Allen would split out the role of chief executive to the new candidate in a year or so but retain his chairmanship until nearer retirement.
Allen, a 32-year AT&amp;T career veteran, would be reluctant to depart early, but in a recent interview said he would consider it if a perfect candidate came along.
"AT&amp;T wants a world-class marketer and technologist, with considerable experience of leading a major business," one source said.
It is unclear yet whether AT&amp;T will give a clear succession timetable in the announcement for the new post.
Armstrong, Esrey, Eastman Kodak Co. Chairman George Fisher and James Barksdale, chairman of Netscape Communications Corp., have ruled themselves out, but this has not stopped the speculation.
Expectation of an earlier end to Allen's career has been fanned by AT&amp;T's profit warning in September in which it said earnings per share for the third quarter may be 10 percent below analyst expectations.
The warning crowned a bad year for the largest U.S. telecommunications firm.
AT&amp;T incurred the wrath of politicians and the media for announcing 40,000 job cuts in January, but the improved stock performance it was meant to produce has not appeared, so Wall Street and investors are not happy either.
While the company's split into three parts is going ahead as planned, the remainder of AT&amp;T is now more firmly wedded to the long-distance telecommunications services sector, in which competition is heating up.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average of blue-chip stocks is up 16 percent so far this year, but AT&amp;T -- adjusted for its split -- is down 14 percent.
Apple Computer Inc. ( stunned investors Wednesday by reporting an unexpected $25 million profit for the last three months of its fiscal year.
The Cupertino, Calif.-based computer maker, which had been expected to report a loss of 30 cents a share, posted a profit of 20 cents a share, its first quarterly profit this year.
In the same quarter a year ago, Apple had net income of $60 million, or 12 cents. Included in the most recent quarter's operating results was a gain of $17 million.
Fourth-quarter revenue for fiscal 1996 declined 23 percent to $2.32 billion from $3 billion.
Apple released the news after the market closed and Its shares jumped as much as $4.25 to $30 a share in after-hours trading.
The profit came because of Apple's aggressive cost cutting, a bigger-than-expected exodus of employees and lower prices for key components, such as memory chips, analysts said.
"It is a shock," said Daniel Kunstler, an analyst at JP Morgan in San Francisco who was expecting a loss. "It seems they've brought the break-even point for their business down pretty dramatically. This is very encouraging."
Most important to investors, Apple could remain profitable in coming quarters, which would bolster confidence among consumers that it will be around for years and keep loyal customers from switching to IBM-compatible personal computers, analysts said.
Fred Anderson, Apple's chief financial officer, stopped short of predicting a profit in the first fiscal quarter.
He said, however, that he expects the company's costs to increase only slightly in the December quarter on higher advertising expenses and that first-quarter revenue should be about the same as in the fourth fiscal quarter.
"We continue to make progress in strengthening Apple's financial condition, as our $410 million in positive cash flow from operations during the quarter suggests," Anderson said.
"We've reduced inventories by nearly $400 million since June and completed the quarter with over $1.7 billion in cash and short-term investments," he said in a statement.
In the past three quarter, Apple reported huge losses because of declining Macintosh sales, management turmoil and growing popularity of personal computers running Microsoft's Windows software, which compete with Macintosh.
The company began slashing its costs when former National Semiconductor Corp. chief Gilbert Amelio took charge of Apple in February.
With most of the cost-cutting plan completed, Apple now will concentrate on the much tougher task of increasing revenue, Anderson said.
While shipments were down 26 percent in the fourth quarter to 932,000 units from the year-ago quarter, Apple said shipments were up 11 percent from the third quarter, a sign that customers were once again buying Apple's products.
Apple has a slew of new products in the works.
On Monday, the company is expected to unveil a new low-end PowerBook, a much-needed portable computer to replace Apple's older glitch-prone models.
In the first calendar quarter, the company also is expected to introduce new low-end consumer desktop models, a niche from which Apple had retreated in an effort to cut costs.
For the full year, Apple reported a loss of $816 million, or $6.59 a share, reflecting a series of hefty one-time charges for inventory writedowns and restructurings. In fiscal 1995, Apple earned $424 million, or $3.45 a share.
Revenue for the year fell 11 percent to $9.83 billion from $11.1 billion a year ago.
The federal government's bid to pry open the phone business has hit a snag that could postpone the onset of full-blown competition in the local and long-distance markets and delay cheaper phone service.
The snag came when a federal appeals court Tuesday suspended, or stayed, key parts of a Federal Communications Commission rule opening local phone monopolies to competition from long-distance carriers, cable TV operators and others.
Experts said the action could postpone competition in the $100 billion local phone market now controlled by the regional Baby Bell phone companies, until the case makes its way through the courts in coming months. A final decision could easily take a year or more.
"We're in for a very messy 1997, and the dust won't settle until fairly deep into 1997," said Henry Geller, a former top telecommunications official in the Commerce Department.
That, in turn, could delay the Baby Bells' entrance into the $70 billion long-distance market. The telecommunications law enacted in February lets the Bells offer long-distance only after they have opened their own markets to new rivals.
Even before the appeals court acted, government officials suggested a prolonged delay of the FCC's rules would make it tougher for regulators to allow the Bells to enter the long-distance business.
The FCC -- along with the Justice Department and state regulators -- has the final say over whether the Bells have satisfied a 14-point "checklist" that includes provisions of the now-suspended FCC rule.
"If the stay chills investment and retards new entry into the local marketplace, it may become more difficult for the (FCC) to authorise the Bell companies to offer long-distance (service)," FCC Commissioner Susan Ness said in a speech only hours before the appeals court order.
And she noted that the Justice Department -- whose views "must be accorded 'substantial weight'" by the FCC -- already has signalled it will be reluctant to support Baby Bell entry as long as as the key parts of the FCC's proposed rules are on ice.
David Turetsky, deputy assistant attorney general in the department's antitrust division, said last month a stay would "seriously impair" the Bell entry process spelled out in the telecommunications law.
Any delays could delay the benefits of competition that Congress and President Clinton promised when enacting the law.
"The sooner there is competition in the local market, the consumer will benefit. And that's for sure when the Bells are allowed to go into long distance," said Geller.
"That will result in marketing and price wars. And the consumer again will greatly benefit."
But Baby Bell stocks rallied after the ruling because state regulators were likely to call for lower discounts when the companies lease their phone lines to new competitors, analysts said.
GTE, the nation's largest local phone company -- which has spearheaded the legal challenge to the FCC rules -- jumped $3.625 to $42.25 on the New York Stock Exchange.
BellSouth added $2.50 to $38.875, Bell Atlantic gained $2.125 to $60.875, NYNEX rose $1.625 to $44.50, Ameritech was up $1.75 to $56.125 and Pacific Telesis rose $1.28 to $34.66, all on the NYSE.
The appeals court suspended the FCC rule until the judges consider a challenge to the measure early next year by GTE Corp., the Bells, other local carriers and state regulators.
They argue the FCC overstepped its power by requiring the Bells and local carriers to lease their phone lines to new competitors at steep discounts of up to 25 percent.
The court's action, for now, puts back in the hands of state regulators the responsibility to set such prices.
But local phone company officials discount the chance that competition will be delayed.
"The Telecommunications Act of 1996 passed by Congress in February is the law of the land and sets forth a timetable for the introduction of competition," said GTE Senior Vice President William Barr. He said that timetable is "unaffected" by the court's action and will proceed.
Air France said Wednesday it was linking up with two major U.S. carriers, Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines, in a trans-Atlantic alliance crucial to its ability to keep up with its major European rivals.
The French state airline said it signed separate letters of intent to coordinate ticket booking and feed passengers back and forth with Delta and Continental after a lengthy search for an American partner.
The long-awaited agreements mark a strategic step in Air France's development and tap the huge U.S. travel market to feed its global network while the U.S. companies will carry the French airline's passengers on their domestic routes.
Air France and Continental signed a commercial accord back in 1993 but it has never been implemented due to changes in top management at both companies. Continental, among the U.S. majors, does not have a European partner.
"These agreements crystallise the company's wish to forge a network of global alliances," Air France said in a statement.
The alliances allow so-called code-sharing arrangements between Air France and the U.S. companies, which is a low-cost way of gaining more customers without direct investment.
It means passengers can be issued a ticket by one carrier to be used on its partner airline -- making it possible for airlines to feed passengers to each other without setting up their own routes.
The companies will also harmonise flight schedules, share a common frequent flyer scheme, and provide ground facilities.
Delta operates from its hub at Atlanta while Continental works from Houston. Air France uses Paris Roissy-Charles De Gaulle airport.
Air France gave no financial details of the alliances but a spokeswoman said they were expected to bring the loss-making airline an extra $100 million a year in gross revenues.
The French airline racked up a net loss of more than 2 billion francs ($385 million) last year after heavy charges for restructuring, but has said it hopes to earn a profit this fiscal year.
Air France Chairman Christian Blanc said a search for U.S. partners only became possible this year as Air France showed signs of financial recovery and reorganized its global network around a central hub at De Gaulle airport.
German carrier Deutsche Lufthansa AG started code-sharing flights with United Airlines in 1994, paving the way for several other high-profile cooperation deals.
French executives fear Washington could hold up any alliance by Air France as a lever to push Paris into opening up the domestic market as part of a bilateral aviation pact.
American Airlines this year set a controversial alliance with British Airways Plc but regulatory approval has been held up because of a dispute between London and Washington over an "open skies" agreement. The planned alliance has been attacked by rivals as anti-competitive.
Air France noted that the ticketing accords with Continental and Delta were subject to government approvals.
Washington and Paris clashed earlier this year when the United States wanted to open bilateral talks on market access and held up U.S. approval of Air France's summer schedule until the French agreed to start negotiations.
New pickup trucks and sport/utility vehicles helped Ford Motor Co.'s third-quarter profits nearly double to $686 million, the company said Wednesday, but it alarmed analysts with growing losses in Europe.
Ford eeked out a $15 million profit from its worldwide automotive operations -- versus a loss of $201 million a year ago --  as U.S. automotove net income of $634 million was offset by a loss of $619 million from non-U.S. regions.
Ford's third-quarter profits, which amounted to 56 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, compared with $357 million, or 27 cents a share, in the year-ago period. The latest results were in line with Wall Street expectations.
Boosting the numbers was another strong performance from Ford's Financial Services Group. The unit earned $671 million, including a gain of $76 million from the sale of USL Capital assets, compared with a profit of $558 million in the 1995 third quarter.
But Ford Credit's earnings slipped to $299 million from $357 million a year ago, reflecting higher credit losses.
"I think there's some real red flags there with overseas operations and Ford Credit," said Bear Stearns analyst Nicholas Lobocarro.
The company's earnings were negatively affected by a $39 million charge to cover the costs of early retirements for U.S. salaried employees. Ford expects to report further charges of $300 million to $400 million in the fourth quarter for more early retirements.
Despite the charges, Ford Chairman Alex Trotman said the company expects its automotive results to be stronger in the fourth quarter from a year ago, with higher sales volumes and improving margins.
In the U.S. market, the latest results were spurred by strong acceptance of new light truck products such as the F-Series pickup truck and new Expedition full-size sport/utility vehicle, Trotman said.
"Outside the U.S., results continue to reflect challenges in several key regions, particularly Europe and South America," Trotman said in a statement, adding, "There's still much to do."
Ford lost $226 million from its South American operations in the third quarter, mostly from Brazil, up from a loss of $102 million in the year-ago period. Ford had said in September that second-half losses in South America would be larger than the first half because of a lower market share and a costly launch process for its new Fiesta.
In Europe, the company's loss grew to $472 million from $320 million. Ford blamed new product launches, adverse vehicle mixes and continued high marketing costs.
However, Ford said its European high-volume vehicle launches were largely completed and that it would focus on cost reductions. It added that new products, such as the recently launched Ka small car that will go on sale next month, will strengthen its European line-up.
Third-quarter revenues climbed to $34 billion from $31.4 billion. Worldwide vehicle unit sales in the third quarter were also up, increasing to 1,452,000 from 1,435,000.
But the automaker lost market share in both the U.S. and western Europe. Ford ended the quarter with 24.5 percent of the U.S. car and truck market. It had 24.8 percent in both the second quarter of 1996 and the third quarter of 1995.
Ford lost a full point of share in western Europe, falling to 11.8 percent from 12.8 percent in the year-ago quarter. Ford's share in the second quarter was 12.0 percent.
The Associates, Ford's consumer finance unit, reported third-quarter earnings of $230 million, a record for any quarter.
Trotman said Ford expects U.S. total vehicle sales to be 15.5 million for 1996, about in line with its earlier forecasts. The industry had 15.1 million sales in 1995.
In Western Europe, Ford forecasts industry sales at 14.2 million for 1996, up from 13.4 million in 1995. Ford expects moderate economic growth to continue in its major worldwide markets, providing for stable industry sales volumes.
Air France is linking up with two major U.S. carriers, Delta Air Lines and Continental, in a transatlantic alliance crucial to its ability to keep up with its major European rivals.
The French state airline said on Wednesday it had signed separate letters of intent for cooperation with Delta and Continental after a lengthy search for a U.S. partner.
The long-awaited agreements mark a strategic step in Air France's development and tap the huge U.S. travel market to feed its global network while the U.S. companies will carry the French airline's passengers on their domestic routes.
"These agreements crystallise the company's wish to forge a network of global alliances," Air France said in a statement.
The alliances allow so-called code-sharing arrangements between Air France and the U.S. companies, which is a low-cost way of gaining more customers without direct investment.
It means passengers can be issued with a through-ticket by one carrier to be used on its partner airline -- making it possible for airlines to feed passengers to each other without setting up their own routes.
The companies will also harmonise their flight schedules, share a common frequent flyer scheme, and provide ground facilities.
Delta operates from its hub at Atlanta, Georgia, while Continental works from Houston, Texas and Air France uses Paris Roissy-Charles De Gaulle airport.
Air France gave no financial details of the link-ups but a spokeswoman said they were expected to bring the loss-making airline an extra $100 million a year in gross revenues.
The French airline racked up a net loss of more than two billion francs last year after heavy provisions for restructuring, but has said it hopes to be in profit this financial year.
Air France chairman Christian Blanc search for U.S. partners only became possible this year as Air France showed signs of financial recovery and reorganised its global network around a central "hub" operation at Roissy Charles De Gaulle airport, giving it a key asset.
This year marks the end of a three-year productivity drive by Blanc to return Air France to break even by 1997 and match the competiveness of its European rivals.
German airline Deutsche Lufthansa AG started code-sharing flights with United Airlines in 1994, paving the way for several other high-profile cooperation deals.
French executives fear Washington could hold up any alliance by Air France as a lever to push Paris into opening up the domestic market as part of a bilateral aviation pact.
American Airlines this year agreed a controversial alliance with British Airways Plc but regulatory approval has been held up by a row between the British and U.S. governments over an "open skies" agreement.
The planned BA-American alliance has been attacked by rivals as anti-competitive.
Air France cautioned the through-ticketing accords with Continental and Delta were subject to government approvals.
Washington and Paris clashed earlier this year when the United States wanted to open bilateral talks on market access and held up U.S. approval of Air France's summer schedule until the French agreed to start negotiations.
Air France and Continental signed a commercial accord back in 1993 but it has never been implemented due to changes in top management at both companies. Continental, among the U.S. majors, does not have a European partner.
Wickes Plc, the British Do-It-Yourself retailer hit by accounting irregularities that led to an overstating of profits, said on Wednesday its ex-chairman had accepted responsibility and the cost would be a 51 million pounds write-off.
The retailer said the problems had resulted in profits being overstated by 51 million pounds ($80.8 million) over recent years and that amount would be written off shareholder funds.
Restatement of the accounts will result in a reduction of 26 million pounds in operating profit for 1995, 14 million pounds for 1994 and 11 million pounds for earlier years.
Profits for 1995 will also be hit by a two million pounds charge against shareholder funds relating to European businesses and a 10 million pounds charge stemming from property interests.
In a letter to shareholders, new chairman Michael von Brentano said the group had recorded an operating loss for the nine months so far this year but pledged that its objective was a return to profits in 1997.
"A new business plan...will be finalised once the negotiations with suppliers are substantially complete. This provides for a substantial reduction in costs, improved marketing initiatives and efficient administrative procedures," he said.
Wickes also plans a refinancing involving a rights issue of new shares to restore its gearing to a "more suitable level". Group net debt averaged 65 million in the second half of the year.
Wickes said it would not seek a relisting of its shares, which were suspended in June, until the new rights shares were issued. A prospectus in connection with the issue was expected to be issued in December, with the new shares being issued following shareholder approval in early 1997.
"I appreciate that much of what I have written will be very disappointing to you," he said. "But now my principal concern is to secure the company's future, define the appropriate cost base and reassert the group's market strengths."
Von Brentano said his predecessor, Henry Sweetbaum, who resigned in June, had now accepted "ultimate responsibility" for overstating profits.
Sweetbaum will repay 1.2 million pounds in bonus payments, including tax, and former finance director Trefor Llewellyn has agreed to repay his 485,000 pounds bonus for 1995.
The group is seeking a new chief executive and said it also intended to strengthen non-executive representation on its board.
Disciplinary action has been taken against two Wickes directors with responsibility for the buying department, both of whom have resigned. Further action will be taken against other middle ranking executives and more junior employees.
The news ends months of waiting for shareholders which saw the shares in limbo at 69 pence after suspension, compared with a year high of 142.
The chairman said it was now important to look to the future and offered some good news, saying that sales in the Wickes stores had been up 8.9 percent on a comparable-store basis in the third quarter, recovering from a 9.7 percent slump seen in the first three months of the year. ($1=.6309 Pound)
Wickes Plc, the Do-It-Yourself retailer hit by accounting discrepencies dating back five years, told Reuters on Wednesday it planned another one-off charge against 1996 results of around 10 million stg.
The charge will relate to restructuring and the costs of the investigation into the accounting problems revealed in June. Finance director Bill Hoskins told Reuters in an interview: "Taking the two together, the cost won't be tens of millions, but around 10 million." He also said that under plans for a rights issue 30 million stg would be "a good starting point."  
The charge cited by the finance chief will be in addition to charges announced by the chairman Michael von Brentano earlier on Wednesday.
Von Brentano had said there would be a 51 million stg write-off against shareholder funds to cover the profit overstatements for recent years, due to misleading accounting.
There is also a separate 10 million stg charge relating to property interests.
Wickes said it planned to explore all avenues to boost its finances before going to shareholders, with a 30 million cash call seen as possible.  
Details of the refinancing are due in December, said Wickes, when it will reveal more about how it plans to turn the group round to profitability by 1997.
Hoskins described the current level of gearing as "pretty horrid." Net debt has averaged at 65 million in the second half.
Talking about the timetable for change, he said "Hopefully the plans will be approved in January and the share relisting will be in early 1997."
Shares are currently suspended, frozen at 69 pence.
The company aims to cut costs and "establish a proper cost base" to make its accounting transparent in the future.
Hoskins concluded that the company wanted to make a clean break from its past troubles. "We want to make a clear distinction between the past and the future. It is essential that we draw a line in the sand and where we have to face up to our responsibilities we will."
The chairman told Reuters "We're in negotiations with all our suppliers and we hope our negotiations will be concluded by the end of the month."
He added that next year would start with a clean slate, with no more charges expected.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Intel Corp stock surged on Tuesday, lifted by a quarterly earnings report that substantially outpaced Wall Street expectations and confirmed its status among analysts as the shooting star of technology stocks.
The earnings report released Monday spurred gains in the stocks of personal computer makers who build machines based on Intel microprocessors but it did little to buoy other chip makers.
"The Intel report was clearly a positive for the whole PC industry," said veteran semiconductor analyst Dan Klesken of Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
"It is an endorsement of our view that we are in for a strong upgrade cycle for the second half of the year," said Klesken.
Still, analysts said Intel stock gains were restrained by uncertainties over whether the third quarter's sharp rise in orders may have come at the expense of the fourth quarter.
The concern was magnified by Intel's decision to at least temporarily halt the practice of forecasting its business prospects.
Intel stock rose $3.50 to $111.125 Tuesday on Nasdaq in a volatile day of trading in which just under 20 million Intel shares changed hands. Intel's gains sparked the technology-heavy Nasdaq index to 1,258.10, up 1.74, its second consecutive record closing high.
On Monday Intel reported third-quarter profits of $1.3 billion, up from $931 million in 1995's third quarter. Wall Street had predicted profits of $1.1 billion.
Brokers responded to the results with a wave of higher earnings projections for Intel for 1996 and 1997.
Personal computer makers who rely on Intel micrprocessors also saw significant gains, as investors viewed Intel's order surge as confirmation of strong demand for the machines themselves.
Compaq Computer Corp. gained $2 to close at $74.75 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange, a day ahead of its own earnings report, due Wednesday.
Dell Computer Corp. rose $3.50 to $88.375 and Gateway 2000 Inc. climbed $3.375 to $56.75, both on Nasdaq.
But Intel's swelling fortunes were seen as having only limited effect on other semiconductor suppliers.
Montgomery Securities analyst Clark Westmont said the main beneficiaries were a handful of custom PC chip makers who sell graphics controllers and other PC-related devices.
Every Intel processor that goes into a PC is accompanied by serveral such ancillary chips.
"Intel is the locomotive who drags along all the other guys in this food chain," Westmont said. "As a result, these other guys are enjoying higher recognition today."
He pointed in particular to PC graphics component supplier Chips and Technologies Inc. stock, which jumped $4.875 to $19.75, or roughly 25 percent, after it released its own strong quarterly earnings report.
France announced plans to create a major new force in the world defence industry on Wednesday, by selling state-owned defence and consumer electronics group Thomson SA to Lagardere Groupe, which owns missile maker Matra.
The government said in a statement it preferred Lagardere's bid to the rival offer of largely civilian industrial group Alcatel Alsthom SA.
Prime Minister Alain Juppe's office said the Thomson Matra giant thus created would be a leading force in the world military industry.
"The merger is an important stage in the reinforcement of the European professional electronics and defense industry," it said in a statement.
The government said it would pump 11 billion francs into loss-making Thomson, which is a leading maker of televisions under brand suchs as SABA and RCA, as well as a specialist in defence electronics such as missile guidance sustems.
The decision was a surprise as the stock market and the media had gambled Alcatel's no-nonsense chairman Serge Tchuruk would take the prize over self-made entrepreneur Jean-Luc Lagardere, 69, who is approaching retirement and soon to hand over power to his son, Arnaud.
Lagardere's conglomerate also owns publisher Hachette.
The government did not spell out exactly how it had reached the choice, but its statement stressed the importance of a merger between Lagardere's Matra and Thomson's majority-owned defence unit Thomson-CSF.
It said it was sending both offers for Thomson SA to the independent Privatisation Commission, which has an important say in the sale of state assets, while recommending Lagardere's bid.
After advice from this consultative body, which reviews the terms of bids, and clearance from European Commission, the sale is expected to be concluded before the end of the year.
The government said it would raise Thomson's capital by nearly 11 billion francs, blaming past Socialist administrations for leaving the group undercapitalised after nationalisation in 1982 and for the excessive debts of the early 1980s.
France will keep a golden share to safeguard defence interests, it said.
Thomson SA lost 1.379 billion francs in 1995 and has 25 billion francs of debt. Fully-owned Thomson Multimedia lost three billion in the first half of 1996, but Thomson-CSF is profitable and had 1995 earnings of 1.01 billion francs.
Political sources had said President Jacques Chirac was determined to pick a bidder who kept Thomson's key defence technologies firmly in French hands.
Lagardere has in the past said that British Aerospace Plc, with which is has a missiles joint-venture, and Germany's Daimler Aerospace could also be involved.
The government said Lagardere wanted to leave the share capital of microelectronics maker SGS-Thomson Microelectronics NV by selling to the other main shareholders.
Thomson-CSF has a 20 percent stake in SGS-Thomson which is controlled by an Anglo-Italian shareholder group including state entities such as CEA and IRI.
Thomson Multimedia, one of the world's leading television set and decoders makers with brands suchs as RCA, SABA, GE, will be sold to Daewoo Electronics of South Korea.
The government said Daewoo was a well known investor in France and had knowledge of mass production techniques. It said Daewoo has promised to maintain Thomson Multimedia jobs in France and even create new jobs.
Alcatel's shares rose sharply on Thursday morning on market relief. Analysts doubted its capacity to finance the Thomson deal. Lagardere shares were suspended for the day.
On Tuesday, Alcatel closed down 2.22 percent at 444.90 francs on rumours its bid would prevail while Lagardere closed up 2.94 percent at 133.10 francs.
France announced plans to create a major new force in the world defence industry on Wednesday, by selling state-owned defence and consumer electronics group Thomson SA to Lagardere Groupe for a symbolic franc.
The government said it had preferred the bid by Lagardere, which owns defence company Matra, to the rival offer of largely civilian industrial group Alcatel Alsthom SA.
"The choice I made yesterday and which has been made public today is entirely based on a defence industrial logic," Prime Minisiter Alain Juppe told parliament
"We have opted for the offer which was the best to further our defence interest and which would constitute a world leading industrial group with strong export capacities," he said.
"The offers were comparable on a financial level. They both needed a capital increase," Finance Minister Jean Arthuis told a news conference. The state will make an 11 billion franc ($2.1 billion) cash injection to Thomson SA prior to the sale.
Challenged in parliament about the cash injection, Arthuis said that "Both Alcatel and Lagardere valued Thomson SA at minus 11 billion francs"
Loss-making Thomson SA owns 58 percent of defence electronics company Thomson-CSF and 100 percent of consumer electronics maker Thomson Multimedia which specialises in digital television and decoders and has Saba and RCA as brands.
Lagardere said it is bidding 156 francs a share, or 7.8 billion francs in total, to buy the minorities in Thomson-CSF which it will then merge with Matra. Lagardere will keep 60 percent of Thomson Matra while the French state will have a golden share to safeguard national security interests.
Lagardere will sell Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo Electronics of South Korea.
The government said Daewoo was a well known investor in France and had knowledge of mass production techniques. Daewoo has made commitments on jobs -- creating 3,000 new jobs in France -- technology and investments.
Thomson Multimedia management will remain French-based.
Arthuis said the European Commission would have to approve the cash injection and study competition issues. He said the sale would take place before the end of the year and the cash for the injection would come from other privatisations.
The independent privatisation commission, which has an important say in the sale of state assets, still has to give its advice on the sale. Arthuis said the government had not wanted to keep its choice secret, as would have been usual, until the privatisation commission's advice "to avoid insider trading".
The decision was a surprise as markets and the media had gambled Alcatel's no-nonsense chairman Serge Tchuruk would take the prize over self-made entrepreneur Jean-Luc Lagardere, 69, who is preparing to hand over power to his son, Arnaud.
Lagardere also owns publishers Hachette and Filipachi.
Thomson SA lost 1.379 billion francs in 1995 and has 25 billion francs of debt. Wholly-owned Thomson Multimedia lost three billion in the first half of 1996, but Thomson-CSF is profitable and had 1995 earnings of 1.01 billion francs.
The government said Lagardere wanted to leave the share capital of microelectronics maker SGS-Thomson Microelectronics NV by selling its 20 percent stake to the other main shareholders. France Telecom said it and CEA Industries were ready to buy that stake and keep French interests at the same level as the stake of Italian companies .
Alcatel's shares rose sharply on Thursday morning on market relief. Analysts doubted its capacity to finance the Thomson deal. Lagardere shares were suspended for the day.
Australia's most profitable casino operator, Crown Ltd, said on Wednesday its long-term ambition lay in Asia where it planned to continue its winning streak with the region's high-rollers.
Crown chairman Lloyd Williams told shareholders in Melbourne, where the company's new casino and hotel complex is nearing completion, that the new A$1.6 billion premises would be a show-case development for Asia.  
"If we are successful in Melbourne, Australia, I think we can be successful in Asia," Williams told Crown's annual meeting at the casino's temporary home beside the city's Yarra River, near the new Crown complex due to open in early March.
"I think what we are doing with this project is that we are probably show-casing it to Asia and that's basically what our ambition is as far as that is concerned," Williams said.
Crown plans to open another three Asian marketing offices in China, Taiwan and Malaysia. It already has offices in Bangkok, Singapore, Jakarta and Hong Kong, enticing big gamblers there to take their chances at the Melbourne casino.  
Crown derived about 30 percent of its gaming revenue of A$490 million in the year to June 30, which underpinned a 76 percent rise in net profit after abnormals to A$58 million.
Williams told reporters later he hoped to build this up to 40 percent or higher.
"I find it remarkable the wealth creation in Asia. Their principal leisure activity is gaming," he said.
"In Asia, comparatively speaking, they (high rollers) treat A$100,000 like A$10," he added.  
Crown wants to bed down its new casino and hotel complex before launching a foray into Asia, Williams said, adding he was not interested in small casino licences such as one recently awarded in the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh.
"There are all sorts of licences available in Asia at the moment....I'm not interested in those licences, not those little licences," he said.
"I was talking about a major licence where a government decided to legalise gaming in a genuine way and the only place (in Asia where) that's done that...at the moment is Malaysia."  
Malaysia's Resorts World Bhd, a subsidiary of Genting Bhd owns and operates that country's only casino in the mountain resort of Genting Highlands.
Williams said that if Thailand, one of Crown's biggest source of high rollers, ever followed suit and awarded an exclusive casino licence, Crown would be a bidder.
"There are gaming jurisdictions that are opening up in Asia, but I don't think they will open up in the short term; I think it's more like the medium term."  
Crown has been operating for only two years but, partly due to relatively low state-government tax on revenue from international gamblers, it has emerged as the most popular of Australia's listed casino operators.
Williams told shareholders the company's first quarter performance for the three months to September 30 was stronger than the same quarter a year ago, adding that the second quarter was normally stronger again.
But he warned that dividends might not be paid until after the new complex's first year of operation.  
"I would think it would be probably prudent to have 12 months of operation at Southbank (site) before we considered that," he told the meeting.
Crown shares were two cents lower at A$2.86 at 2.55 p.m. (0455 GMT).
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1421
China has banned imports of poultry from 10 U.S. states, threatening an export market worth about $500 million a year, because of fears it carries a fowl plague, a U.S. embassy official in Beijing said on Wednesday.
"China has placed a ban on imports of all poultry and poultry products from 10 states," the official said.
Chinese authorities had indicated fears the poultry products carried a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), he said.
The states affected are Arkansas, Florida, Maryland, Utah Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Texas and Wisconsin.
The U.S. embassy official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there seemed to be some confusion on the part of Chinese quarantine officials over the difference between HPAI and avian influenza (AI).
"HPAI has not been found in the U.S. since 1984 and we believe there has been some confusion about the type of AI virus found in the United States and noted by China," he said.
A U.S. quarantine official based in China told Reuters last week the virus could not be transmitted to people who ate the meat of infected birds.
China is the second biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products and is its only market for chicken feet.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled 330,000 tonnes transshipped through Hong Kong alone, worth US$445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
Every day 30 23-tonne containers of U.S. chicken feet crossed the border from Hong Kong into China, the council's spokeswoman Sarah Li said.
The AI virus could be found worldwide, particularly in wild fowl, the embassy official said, and had not been isolated from commercial poultry flocks in the United States.
Another U.S. official told Reuters the AI virus may have been detected in ostriches imported from the United States as breeding stock on Chinese ostrich farms.
"Ostrich raising in China has become very popular and a lot of the breeding stock is brought in from the U.S.," the marketing official said on condition of anonymity.
"We heard that some of the ostrich breeding stock had been found to have AI," the official said.
News of the ban surfaced last week and was confirmed by Chinese quarantine officials to the U.S. embassy on Friday.
Officials of China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ) and the U.S. Embassy in Beijing met on Tuesday in an effort to resolve the issue, the embassy official said.
"It was a frank, candid and open meeting -- they listened to us and agreed that we should talk more about it, which we will as soon as possible," the official said.
"Basically, we said we think there's been a misunderstanding, but they said what if it (the AI virus) mutates? We said it didn't and they rejected that," he said.
The rejection threatened U.S. poultry markets in China and had also been extended to poultry and poultry meat imports from the Netherlands for the same reason, he said.
Officials of the U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service would travel from the United States to meet their Chinese counterparts. No date had been fixed.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Smiles are coming back to the faces of Asian sugar traders and industry executives, who are smacking their lips at the prospect of a stabilised Chinese market and decent profits for sugar mills there.
Prices for sugar in China were starting to move to levels not only covering factory costs but providing some profits, trade and industry sources said on Wednesday.
White sugar prices in Beijing and Shanghai were around 4,400 yuan (US$530) a tonne, reflecting prices of three or four months ago, trading sources said.
Ex-factory prices in the growing regions, however, were now a good 300-400 yuan higher, the sources said.
"The lowest price in 1996 was 3,650 renminbi a tonne in the producing areas," a Chinese trader in Hong Kong said.
Transport to the major cities added 150 to 200 yuan, plus handling costs, he said. So current prices were indicative of when the sugar was purchased and stored.
Prices in the producing areas, notably Guangxi and Guangdong provinces in the south, had moved to between 4,500 and 4,700 yuan a tonne.
"The Chinese sugar market is still a very attractive market," an industry executive who runs a number of joint venture sugar factories in southern China said.
"It is not yet fully mature and there will be an inbalance between supply and demand for a long time," he said on condition of anonymity.
He put annual Chinese demand at eight to nine million tonnes.
"The government has stopped imports for the last three months, so I see the market getting back to normal," he said.
Imports in 1995 were 3.3 million tonnes. This year's harvest, which begins next month, is expected to be more than 7.5 million tonnes, over last year's 5.65 million.
Signs the market in China was beginning to stabilise were evident in the recent rise in wholesale prices for processed white sugar, he and other trade and industry sources said.
The tightness reflected in the rising prices would last until the beginning of the crushing season in November.
"The price could go to 5,000 (yuan per tonne)," a trader in Shanghai said.
Stocks of 1.5 to two million tonnes represented two months' consumption at the current peak consumption time, he said.
Even so, traders and industry sources did not see China having to import sugar before the middle of 1997.
Some rumours that China had recently purchased five to 10 cargoes -- or a maximum of 120,00 tonnes -- of Thai sugar were seen as an attempt to push up faltering Thai raw sugar premiums.
"I find it hard to believe because there are no sugar import licences," a Hong Kong trader said.
"The Thai premium was falling below $60 (per tonne) two weeks ago and I suspect people are spreading this rumour to push the premium back up," he said.
The premium on Thai sugar to China had recovered to around $70 for March-May contracts, he said.
Another trader in Hong Kong reported a secret deal in which a monastery in rural Tibet was granted sugar import licences, which it then sold to raise money for restoration work.
He said 50,000 tonnes of import quota was involved, and had been used to purchase raw Cuban sugar at US$3,000 a tonne.
"The central government gave the quota to the lamasery, then the monks sold the quota to raise money," he said.
The only other detail he would provide was that the Cuban sugar was not part of the annual 500,000-tonne barter deal between Beijing and Havana, and that it would arrive in China before the end of 1996.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd said it has retired the last of its Lockheed TriStars.
Cathay's 19 TriStar airliners in the carrier's old green and white livery have been a familiar sight in the Hong Kong skies since 1975 flying more than 487,000 hours and millions of passengers. At its peak the fleet was logging 609,000 kilometres every week - equal to the moon and halfway back.
"It is more than a piece of metal. The TriStar has got character and it's a bit of a thoroughbred," said veteran Cathay pilot Captain John Bent.
The three engined L1011 airliners have been gradually phased out over the past two years and replaced in a US$9 billion fleet replacement programme on Cathay's regional and medium-haul routes by new, twin engined Airbus Industrie A330-300 and Boeing 777-200 airliners offering greater fuel efficiency, passenger comfort and cargo handling capability. The A330 can carry up to 32 LD-2 cargo containers in its belly weighing up to 22 tons, the TriStar can only carry around eight tons of cargo, Cathay said.
The airline says many of its TriStar fleet, which have been renowned for reliability and as a pilot's favourite, have been sold to other airlines to continue faithful service in the USA and Europe. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
The U.S. government's top Asia official, Winston Lord, was to hold talks with Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister Liu Huaqiu in Beijing on a range of issues including human rights, diplomats said on Wednesday.
Lord, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, arrived on Tuesday for the unannounced visit and was keeping a low profile while in Beijing, a U.S. embassy official said.
However he was due to hold talks with Deputy Foreign Minister Liu and a possible meeting with Foreign Minister Qian Qichen was on the agenda before Lord left on Thursday for Japan, diplomats said.
In Washington, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said on Tuesday that Lord was preparing for a visit next month by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, but officials said a wide range of other issues would almost certainly be raised.
"Human rights will come up," one diplomat said.
Washington last week sharply criticised the sentencing of dissident Liu Xiaobo to three years in a labour camp, as well as apparent plans to try another pro-democracy activist, Wang Dan, on the capital charge of plotting to subvert the government.
U.S. officials say relations with China have generally improved in recent months, but there have been frictions in the past two weeks over its treatment of dissidents and over fresh reports of Chinese nuclear sales to Pakistan.
"I think all issues are on the table in (Lord's) discussions with the Chinese. It wouldn't surprise me at all if that issue of the alleged sale of items between China and Pakistan came up," Burns said.
Nevertheless, he said Washington continued to maintain that China had not violated past pledges with the sale, which the Washington Times said last week consisted of a special industrial furnace and high-tech diagnostic equipment.
Burns also said human rights issues were likely to be raised.
Diplomats said Beijing would almost certainly be angered by reports that Chinese dissident Wang Xizhe had arrived in San Francisco for asylum in the United States.
A row over human rights scarred Christopher's last visit to China in 1993.
Christopher is due to visit China on November 21-22 on a trip originally announced in July.
The visit would mark the highest point in relations since ties plunged after Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui paid a private visit to the United States in June, 1995 -- a trip that enraged Beijing.
Both sides have said they are moving towards a possible exchange of presidential visits during 1997.
Among outstanding issues that could spark U.S. anger are the alleged nuclear sales and China's human rights record, while Beijing blames Washington for holding up its application for membership of the World Trade Organisation.
U.S. officials said Lord had considered the possibility of extending his trip beyond South Korea when he left Washington last week, but did not finally decide to do so until he was already in Asia.
Lord came to China after a visit to South Korea to discuss tensions over the beaching of a North Korean submarine on the South Korean coast last month.  
"With more and more (listed) firms involving in such takeovers, regulation and supervision has become a tough task," said one analyst with China Guotai Securities.
"The central government should not wait until there are too many headaches before taking measures to sort things out," he said.
But the analyst said that despite the problems, takeovers would be a focus of the stock market over the next few years because of restrictions in other areas, including a ban on mergers between listed firms and unlisted firms.
In the six-year history of modern China's stock markets, there has been no case of a takeover of one listed firm by another.
China sent a senior official to attend a reception at the Ukraine embassy on Friday despite a diplomatic rift over a visit to Kiev by Taiwan's vice president Lien Chan.
But an apparent guest list mix-up left both sides unsure over who would represent Beijing at the reception, held to mark Ukraine's independence day.
Ukraine's ambassador thought Chinese Vice-Foreign Minister Tian Zengpei would attend, but the Chinese thought it was Vice-Foreign Minister Zhang Deguang.
Zhang, however, fell ill and Vice-Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan showed up instead.
The confusion followed Taiwan Vice President Lien Chan's three-day trip this week to Ukraine which infuriated Beijing.
"It was a misunderstanding...a mix-up," Ukrainian Minister-Counsellor Leonid Leshchenko told Reuters, referring to the guest list.
Asked if he saw it as an intentional slap on the wrist, Leshchenko shook his head and said: "No, no no."
A Chinese Foreign Ministry protocol officer said Tian, the vice-minister that the Ukrainians were expecting, was abroad.
Ukrainian diplomats noted that Tang, the vice-minister who attended, was filling in for Tian as the acting first vice-minister and was actually higher in rank than the person who fell ill.
Ukraine's Ambassador Anatoly Plyushko emerged from a half-hour chat with Vice-Minister Tang, and said the vice-minister told him that China attached "great attention to bilateral relations" and "hoped to continue to develop" ties.
Plyushko said the vice-minister did not raise the issue of Lien's three-day Kiev visit.
"All Chinese guests...invited came," Plyushko said. "This is evidence...(of) their attitude towards our relations. I'm optimistic."
The atmosphere was less pleasant on Wednesday when the Chinese Foreign Ministry summoned Plyushko to protest against Lien's trip.
China regards Taiwan as a rebel province with no right to conduct foreign relations on its own, and has sought to push it into diplomatic isolation since a civil war separated them in 1949.
The former Soviet republic of Ukraine recognises China but not Taiwan.
In apparent retaliation against Lien's visit, Chinese State Councillor Li Tieying, a member of the powerful Politburo of the ruling Communist Party, has postponed a visit to Ukraine.
In Kiev, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Hennady Udovenko took a shot at Beijing on Thursday, saying China had over-reacted to Lien's visit and calling Beijing's protest "out of proportion".
BellSouth Corp will expand by a third its network of wireless-telephony shops in a campaign to cut the nearly $400 it spends acquiring each new customer, chief financial officer Ronald Dykes said on Thursday.
The company operates 200 or more of its own outlets selling BellSouth Mobility cellular-telephone services and finds it saves about $100 on each customer signed up by its own representatives.
"I wouldn't be surprised if the number grew by a third," Dykes told Reuters.  
BellSouth has 3.3 million U.S. cellular customers, a total rising at the rate of 31 percent a year. It also has more than one million cellular customers in 11 other nations.
Dykes said BellSouth, a leading regional telephone group, expects the share of wireless customers secured through its directly owned shops to rise but never to replace its direct-sales force or third-party vendors.
"We want to have a very broad distribution system and drive the costs down," he said.  
BellSouth also sells in select markets personal communications services (PCS), a new generation of wireless telephony which uses spectra other than the 800 megahertz reserved for cellular, but intends to keep the BellSouth Mobility brand for both PCS and cellular.
"The customer doesn't care," he said. "We are using PCS to fill out our footprint", or areas in its region where it does not have cellular rights.  
Marketing, he said, also played an important role in the 43 percent spurt in quarterly revenues from convenience telephone features BellSouth sells to traditional wired telephone customers.
Quarterly revenues for such services rose to $281 million in the third quarter, when net income rose 12.9 percent to $631 million.
Selling such services as Call Waiting, a feature which signals a customer using a telephone that a second caller is ringing, in discounted bundles or on a per-use basis had lifted sales mightily.
"Those two methods are very strong drivers of our success," Dykes said.
Per-use sales of such services totalled $53 million in the first nine months of 1996, he said.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713
Shares of food and beverage giant PepsiCo Inc rose sharply Thursday on rumors that it could be a takeover target of Philip Morris Cos Inc.
Industry experts flatly dismissed the rumor, saying a pricetag on any potential transaction would be an astounding $60 to $80 billion.
Instead, they said the rumor, just the latest to surface about PepsiCo in recent months, underscores widespread dissatisfaction about the company's outlook.  
"I don't ever say no to anything, but I think this is a farfetched rumor," said Martin Romm of CS First Boston.
Officials from PepsiCo and Philip Morris declined to comment on the rumor, citing company policy.
But shares of PepsiCo, which have been active recently, jumped 1-3/8 to 30-1/2 and Philip Morris gained 1-1/8 to 97. Wall Street rumblings began earlier this week and the rumor picked up steam after a Thursday report in the New York Post.  
The New York Post cited a rumor on Wall Street that Philip Morris would offer $50 a share for PepsiCo.
The speculation of a deal with Philip Morris comes less than one month after PepsiCo announced a major plan to pull out of weak international beverage markets.
The restructuring, which called for a charge of more than $500 million against earnings, also included cost-cutting targets and continued focus on its Frito-Lay snack food unit.  
But Wall Street is disappointed with the company's indecision about its casual restaurant business, which has performed below expectations. PepsiCo said it is reviewing those operations and analysts widely expect the company to eventually sell the business.
In the meantime, earnings growth will rest heavily on the strong Frito-Lay division.  
"In 1997, a large (part of PepsiCo earnings) is going to be riding on the shoulders of Frito-Lay. Frito-Lay, in my opinion, has to deliver next year," said Skip Carpenter of Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, who does not anticipate a major turnaround for the international beverage business until 1998 or 1999.
Analysts said PepsiCo reported third quarter earnings on Tuesday that met expectations, but failed to excite investors.
If PepsiCo sells the restaurant business as expected, the company may pour some of those proceeds into acquisitions to further beef up the solid snack food business, analysts said.  
Analysts also have dismissed recent rumors that PepsiCo would be interested in buying Starbucks Corp. They said a transaction between the two would likely dilute PepsiCo earnings and disappoint investors who want the company to exit the casual dining business.
Both companies declined to comment on the PepsiCo-Starbucks speculation. The two companies are in a joint venture for the production and sale of a cold coffee beverage called Frappucino.  
Philip Morris' huge product line includes Post breakfast cereals, Marlboro cigarettes and Kraft cheese.
Boris Becker withdrew from the Czech Indoor Open on Thursday because of a recurring wrist injury, while top seed Goran Ivanisevic crashed out to Czech Petr Korda 7-6 6-2.
Becker, who tore a ligament in his right wrist at the Wimbledon championships this year, was in pain after training and dropped out of his scheduled second round match against Czech Martin Damm.
"Boris said his wrist was too sore and that he would not be able to play this evening," ATP Tour Supervisor Gayle Bradshaw said.
On Wednesday Becker had held his wrist several times during his 6-3 6-4 victory over Denmark's Frederik Fetterlein.
The world number six tried to return to the circuit last month but the injury forced him to retire from the first round in Bucharest, lose in the second round in Basle and withdraw from Lyon two weeks ago.
Becker's absence has set back his bid for a record 12th appearance at the season-ending ATP Tour championship. He currently trails South African Wayne Ferreira for the eighth and final spot.
Ivanisevic, who has already qualified for the tour finale, lives and dies by the serve. 
But he was outgunned by Korda who served 10 aces and only one double fault, while Ivanisevic managed only nine aces along with five double faults.
"He surprised me the way he played, he served well and returned very well. I double-faulted at 5-5 in the tie break which hurt," said Ivanisevic.
"I didn't return well, I didn't take any chances on his second serve. I didn't know whether to stay back or come in and when you're not sure what to do then it's no good."
Second seed Ferreira scraped through to the quarter-finals with a 7-6 5-7 7-5 victory over Dutch qualifier Joost Winnink.
Ferreira, ranked seventh in the world, was stretched to the limit by Winnink. Their absorbing baseline battle ended in the 12th game of the deciding set when Winnink's backhand let him down on three successive occasions.
Third seed Boris Becker withdrew from the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open on Thursday because of a recurring wrist injury.
Becker, who tore a ligament in his right wrist during the third round at this year's Wimbledon, was in pain after training and dropped out of his scheduled second round match against Czech Martin Damm.
"Boris said his wrist was too sore and that he would not be able to play this evening," ATP Tour Supervisor Gayle Bradshaw said.
On Wednesday evening, Becker cruised to a 6-3 6-4 victory over Denmark's Frederik Fetterlein. During the match he held his wrist several times.
The world number six tried to return to the circuit last month but the injury forced him to retire from the first round in Bucharest, lose in the second round in Basle and withdraw from Lyon two weeks ago.
Becker's absence has set back his plan to qualify for a record 12th appearance at the season-ending ATP Tour championship. He currently trails South African Wayne Ferreira for the eighth and final spot in Hannover.
Second seed Ferreira scraped through to the quarter-finals in Ostrava with a 7-6 5-7 7-5 victory over Dutch qualifier Joost Winnink.
Ferreira, ranked seventh in the world, was stretched to the limit by Winnink. Their absorbing baseline battle ended in the 12th game of the deciding set when Winnink's backhand let him down on three successive occasions.
Although Becker was ranked only third for Ostrava behind Goran Ivanisevic and Ferreira, it was clear most fans wanted to watch him.
Barely 1,000 saw Ivanisevic's first round against world number 42 Adrian Voinea. A tournament record 10,000 watched Becker defeat Fetterlein, ranked 156.
Seventh seed Tim Henman reached the last eight with a 7-6 7-5 victory over British Davis Cup team mate Greg Rusedski.
Marjorie Scardino, set to become Pearson chief executive in January, rejects the tag of company insider and has vowed to carry out radical change at the British media firm "if needed".
Selecting an American woman to head a top British company was certain to raise a few eyebrows in the City of London. But initial doubts are paradoxically based on the fact that she is seen as part of the Pearson family rather than a newcomer.
"The message that this appointment puts across is that we can expect more of the same from the company. That's not what the market wanted to hear," said one media analyst.
Scardino, 49, is chief executive of business publisher The Economist Group, 50 percent owned by Pearson.
But she said that The Economist is run as an independent operation and she is not part of the Pearson establishment.
"I would like to put that one to rest - I am an outsider to Pearson," the mother-of-three told Reuters.
She said that she had spoken to the members of the Pearson board and had been assured that they were prepared to accept radical change "if needed".
She said she was well aware of press and market criticism of a lack of management focus at Pearson, a company whose activities range from the Financial Times to Australian soap opera "Neighbours".
Pearson has sold off businesses in wine, china and oil services in recent years to concentrate on three media-related areas -- Information, Education and Entertainment.
"I know this company has been broken up and put back together (by journalists and analysts) in all kinds of ways. I think I'm aware of all the possibilities."
There was more bad press on Thursday as the market questioned her qualifications.
"She's apparently been very successful at the Economist but it's not the same as running a major PLc," said one analyst.
But she received a glowing reference from Economist chairman Dominic Cadbury: "I am sure that she will move quickly to assess the Pearson business and define a new strategic direction which she will set about implementing," he said.
Profits at the Economist have more than doubled during her three years as chief executive. Scardino is also a director of U.S. food giant ConAgra Inc and British retailer WH Smith.
Born in Arizona but brought up in Texas, Scardino worked in the 1970s as a lawyer in Savannah, Georgia -- the hometown of her journalist husband.
By night she helped him with his weekly Georgia Gazette newspaper where he won a Pulitzer prize for his work.
She moved to New York in the mid 1980s where she headed the Economist's North American operations for several years.
She lives in the swish west London quarter of Knightsbridge with husband Albert. The couple have three children -- the youngest of whom is making a name for himself as an actor.
Indeed, Hal Scardino, 11, is maybe better known than his high-powered Mum. His films include Marvin's Room with Meryl Streep, Diane Keaton and Robert de Niro and The Indian in the Cupboard, for which he won a best child actor award.
"He's been in a couple of movies but I wouldn't call him a star," she said. Her other son, Will, is 16 while daughter Adelaide, 18, has just returned to the U.S. to study.
Japanese car giant Nissan Motor Co is expected to make a decision on whether to go ahead with building a new medium-sized vehicle for the European market in spring 1997, according to the head of its UK operations.
Ian Gibson, managing director of Nissan Motor UK and vice-president of Nissan Europe, said in an interview with Reuters he would be presenting his plan to the Nissan board in Tokyo next spring.
But he added that the investment size, design details and production were yet to be thrashed out. Gibson said it was still an open verdict on whether the plan would go ahead.
Speaking from the British Internaitonal Motor Show in Birmingham, he said the new car would be between its small Micra and larger Primera, based on the Almeira model which is currently manufactured in Japan and shipped to Europe.
"If we build the car in Europe, the design and develoment is purely for a model destined for Europe, not one that has to include a number of viewpoints for world export."
"We will do it from scratch if it goes ahead," said Gibson.
But he added that if the decision is given the go-ahead next year it would mean moving up to 100,000 units of capacity from Japan into Europe.
"The question is what opportunities are there for Japan to use that excess capacity for something else?"
Gibson said this was part of the equation in the decision but refused to outline what options the Japan headquarters were looking at in terms of "new models and new markets."
If Nissan does decide to build the new model in Europe it would be manufactured in the UK or Spain.
Gibson was circumspect about the cost of developing and putting the new model on sale, saying "I can't see it happening for less than 200 million (stg). But that's the absolute minimum.
He refused to cite a top end figure, but separately spoke of the general industry cost of building and marketing a new vehicle, estimating it at between one and three billion stg.
On Nissan's European sales for 1996, Gibson said there would be a modest rise, predicting three percent sales growth for 1997.
Daewoo Cars Ltd, the British motoring arm of Korean conglomerate Daewoo Corp, is considering transferring its unique UK marketing strategy to new markets.
In an interview with Reuters at this week's British International Motor Show in Birmingham, Daewoo UK Ltd managing director Tong Won Rhie said: "We are now reviewing the performance over the past two years, and the UK strategy has proved a good model."
He said adapting the policy of cutting out car dealerships by selling directly to customers, which has rapidly carved Daewoo a significant slice of Britain's highly competitive car market, "is a big possibility."
Daewoo already operates in 12 European countries and is preparing to launch its models, which are revamped versions of old General Motors Corp cars, in five more.
In its first nine months of operation in Britain last year Daewoo sold more than 13,000 cars. And by October 8 this year Rhie said it had already sold another 18,500 units.
"Our target when we launched was one percent market share in three years. We have already reached that," Rhie said.
Daewoo, which likes to advertise itself as breaking the mould of car supply in Britain, launched itself through cleverly targeted publicity, including surveys of customer likes and dislikes.
Rhie summed up customers' pet hates as "too much hassle" from salesmen and poor aftercare once the sale was complete.
"It is like a wedding, with the customer as the bride. Before, they say I love you, darling,' and all that, but after the marriage they forget," Rhie said.
Daewoo was the first company to offer three years' free servicing on all models and packed its cars with extras including airbags and mobile phones.
It has also led a revolution in all-inclusive pricing, a trend followed this week by GM unit Vauxhall Motors and by Porsche AG with its new Boxster sports car.
But Rhie said its U.K. strategy was not applicable to all markets, particularly those where the relationship between car producers and dealers is even more entrenched than in Britain.
"The UK market is more sophisticated than many other countries. The level of (consumer) awareness is higher."
Daewoo has encountered severe criticism from rivals, some of whom are alarmed at the speed with which it has penetrated the British market, where it has overtaken longer-established names like Saab, Mitsubishi and Hyundai.
Some question whether its pioneering servicing agreement with the Halfords superstore chain can provide the level of support for customers that it claims.
Daewoo's response to criticism that its current range of models is outmoded will be to launch three entirely new cars at the end of 1997. Rhie said one of these, known as the J Car, had been developed largely by its U.K. R&amp;D operation in the southern town of Worthing, which employs nearly 1,000 people.
Rhie declined to state Daewoo's next target for U.K. market share. "Quantity is very important but that is not the final goal," he said. "Our aim is a customer focus and how to continuously follow up customers' requirements."
Third seed Boris Becker on Thursday withdrew from the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open due to a recurring injury to his right wrist.
Becker, who tore a ligament in the wrist during a third round match at this year's Wimbledon, trained on Thursday morning, but afterward complained of pain in his wrist.
He later told ATP officials that he would not play his second round match against Czech Martin Damm later on Thursday.
"Boris said his wrist was too sore and that he would not be able to play this evening," ATP Tour Supervisor Gayle Bradshaw told Reuters. He did not elaborate.
On Wednesday evening, Becker cruised to an easy 6-3 6-4 victory over Denmark's Frederik Fetterlein.
During the match he held his wrist several times, and appeared to be favouring it again at practice on Thursday morning. Becker immediately left the training court for his hotel. He was not available for comment
"I have good days and bad days with my hand...it was sore in the match but I managed to fight through it and hopefully it will be alright tomorrow," Becker said after the match on Wednesday.
The world number six tried to return to the circuit last month, but recurring problems with the wrist forced him to retire from the first round in Bucharest, lose in the second round in Basle and withdraw from Lyon two weeks ago.
Becker's withdrawal puts a serious dent in the 28 year old's plans to qualify for a record 12th appearance at the ATP Tour Championships at the end of the year. He currently trails South African Wayne Ferreira, seeded second in Ostrava, by only 46 points for the eighth and final spot in Hannover.
It also comes as a blow to tournament organisers. Though he was only ranked third in the tournament behind top seed Goran Ivanisevic and Ferreira, it was clear most of the tickets sold were by fans hoping to catch a glimpse of the German.
Barely 1,000 fans came out to watch Ivanisevic's first round match against world number 42 Adrian Voinea. In contrast, a tournament record crowd of some 10,000 watched Becker defeat the Fetterlien, ranked 156 in the world.
The Czech engineering company CKD Holding a.s. said on Thursday that it had won two contracts totalling roughly $200 million to supply trams to the city of Manila in the Philipines.
The order by Manila's MRTC for trams to be used in its massive new mass transit project -- and to be produced at the CKD Tatra plant in Prague -- is welcome news to Czech industry which has been reeling from a rapidly expanding trade deficit.
"The object of the contracts is the supply of large-capacity trams to Manila," CKD spokesman Vaclav Brom told Reuters adding the order was for more than 70 large tram units.
The Czech Foreign Ministry said in a statement issued concurrently that the CKD contract was part of a "package of contracts" with Japan's Sumitomo Corp and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries as general suppliers for the project.
CKD said one contract was for the supply of trams totalling $104 million, the assembly of which would begin in the second half of 1997 with supply scheduled for sometime in 1998.
The second contract was a joint 10-year contract in which CKD would be responsible for maintenance and technical assistance for the trams along with training of the drivers, while Sumitomo would maintain the tracks and the depots.
The maintenance contract is worth $95 million to the Czech side alone, CKD said.
The Czech foreign ministry said the contracts were signed last week with the owner of the Manila project, MRTC.
"(The contracts' signing), in cooperation with the Japanese partners, open for Czech suppliers of tram units the possibility to penetrate into other Asia markets as well," the Czech foreign ministry said in a statement.
It said that Indonesia and the Peoples' Republic of China, were strong prospects for CKD trams, "especially since Mitsubishi does not produce trams, and with success in Manila, is prepared to coooperate with CKD."
The Czech merchandise trade deficit grew to a record eight-month total of 100 billion (corrects from million) crowns from January to August, the same as for the whole of 1996.
Many analysts see the Czech electric rail industry, which supplied trams for decades to the countries of the former Soviet Bloc, as a potential area where the country can narrow its yawning trade gap.
The Czech National Bank (CNB) on Thursday laid out conditions for a government scheme to buy smaller banks' doubtful debts in an effort to restore confidence in the country's banks.
The CNB said it would demand that those participating in the scheme -- which is open to a total of 13 small, private, banks -- follow strict conditions and allow the central bank to make management changes where needed.
CNB officials said the programme, approved by the cabinet on Wednesday, was not aimed at resolving a problem at any one bank.
"It is a preventative programme, it is a step toward strenghtening the confidence in our banking sector," CNB Governor Josef Tosovsky said.
He said the decision followed the failure of Keditni Banka in August -- the 11th bank in which the CNB had intervened -- and the "politicisation" of the case which had undermined confidence especially in small banks.
The collapse became a political issue which drove parliament to set up an inquiry.
The plan will be open to all small private banks which have total paid-in capital of 12.5 billion crowns ($458.5 million), each with total assets not more than 30 billion crowns.
The state-run Konsolidacni Banka would buy the banks' doubtful assets at a nominal price.
The banks will be required to buy back the assets after "around five to seven years", again priced at their nominal value, minus credits recovered by Konsolidacni from the debtors in the meantime, CNB board member Ota Kaftan said.
He said banks seeking to participate would be held to strict requirements which include sticking to a three-year stabilisation plan and an agreement to attain an eight percent capital adequacy ratio.
Kaftan said that the banks must maintain cost controls, profitability, and liquidity as well as agree to frequent reviews by the central bank.
The maximum purchase of debt by Konsolidacni can total up to 110 percent of a single bank's paid-in capital, meaning a maximum exposure for the state of 13.7 billion crowns in total if all eligible banks participated.
The programme is voluntary based on a contract with the CNB, and the central bank said it would not reveal banks which elect to participate in the scheme.
The banks eligible include Ekoagrobanka, Union Banka,  Evrobanka,  Prvni Mestska Banka,  COOP Banka,  Pragobanka,  Plzenska Banka,  Foresbank,  Bankovni Dum Skala, Moravia Banka,  Universal Banka,  Zemska Banka, and Banka Hana.
Tosovsky said the money for the scheme would come primarily from state-controlled Konsolidacni Banka and if necessary from the CNB itself. A newly created unit of Konsolidacni, Ceska Financni s.r.o., will administer the programme.
Any losses from the programme would be covered by the National Property Fund (NPF), the state privatisation agency.
Analysts welcomed the programme as long as it leads to better risk management at the smaller banks, which still comprise a minor fraction of activity. But overall, they said, it was a political step taken under pressure. ($1=27.26 Czech Crown)
Russia's former fuel and energy minister, Yuri Shafranik, tried but failed to create a mega oil corporation by merging four privatised companies, energy sources familiar with the ill-fated proposal said on Thursday.
They said Shafranik's proposal, first aired this summer, to merge the Tyumen Oil Company (Tyumenskaya Neftyanaya Kompaniya), ONAKO (the Orenburg Oil Company, or Orenburgskaya Neftyanaya Kompaniya)  ORNB.RTS, the Eastern Oil Company (Vostochnaya Nefytanaya Kompniya) and Slavneft, found no government support.
Sources said Shafranik, in search of a consolation prize, was now trying to create a financial-industrial group uniting some of the firms he wanted to merge and second-tier players.
Had Shafranik succeeded with his merger plans, he would have created Russia's largest oil producer, a super company whose units collectively produced over 89 million tonnes in 1995 -- far above current leader LUKoil, which produced over 57 million tonnes last year.
"Shafranik had this idea and was excited about it for a while, but then it ran into big problems with government acceptance," said one source who asked not be named.
The company, had it been created, would have accounted for nearly one third of Russia's total 1995 oil output of around 305 million tonnes. Russia is the world's third largest oil producer.
The sources said the proposed financial industrial group would consist of the Tyumen Oil Company, SIBUR (the Siberian- Urals Oil and Gas Chemicals Company, or Sibirsko-Uralskaya Neftegazokhimicheskaya Kompaniya), the Eastern Oil Company, Slavneft (a joint venture between Russia's Megionneftegaz MFGS.RTS and Belarus) and the Eastern-Siberian Oil and Gas Company (Vostochno-Sibirskaya Neftegazovaya Kompaniya).
SIBUR and Eastern-Siberian are two independents that do not have crude oil production units.
Sergei Verin, secretary to the board of directors of the Tyumen Oil Company, where Shafranik is chairman of the board, said only that the proposed financial-industrial group would undertake "joint projects".
Shafranik had hinted at a news conference in July, when he was still energy minister, that four companies would merge, but refused to say which ones.
"This is a big secret, and I'm not going to name the oil companies," he said. "Somebody will be against it, very against it, because this will be a powerful competitor."
Fuel and Energy Ministry spokesmen declined to comment on the failed proposal, and earlier prohibited a correspondent from raising the issue with the new minister, Pyotr Rodionov, as one condition of receiving an interview.
"Why don't you ask Shafranik?" Rodionov said on Thursday after a cabinet meeting, when asked about the failed merger.
Verin said only that a merger was not now being discussed and that the Tyumen Oil Company was the motor behind the financial-industrial group talks.
"Our goal is to undertake joint projects that a single company itself could not take on alone," Verin said, adding that all sides were in active negotiations on a development strategy.
Shafranik left the Fuel and Energy Ministry in August for the Tyumen Oil Company. It is based in Siberia's oil-rich Tyumen region, where Shafranik was administration head before taking his ministry post in 1993.
Shafranik saw Russia's state-run, monolithic oil industry transformed into 13 privatised companies, most of them vertically integrated, while he was minister and watched many ministry specialists quit for lucrative jobs at the new firms.
The sources did not say who in the government had rejected Shafranik's proposal. The shake-up of the oil industry was masterminded by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and President Boris Yeltsin.
When novice torero Ricardo Gomez steps into the arena and faces down a raging bull, only his fast-developing flair and a passion born of poverty lie between him and a gory end.
Art and courage fuse as the 22-year-old swirls his cape and moves with the elegance of a dancer. The rays of the afternoon sun glisten on his Suit of Lights -- the bullfighter's traditional costume. But when the going gets tough, the 120 pound (54 kg), 5 foot 5 inch (1.7 metre) baker's son knows the most important lessons to remember are those he has learned growing up on the tough streets of Bogota, the Colombian capital.
"I've got more passion than a rich person. I've had to put up with things in my life that a rich person would not have to suffer and when I get in front of a bull I have the same attitude. My daily life has given me one of the most important lessons for bullfighting," Gomez explained.
As a hand-me-down from Spanish colonialists, bullfighting -- the so-called fiesta brava -- has the image of a wealthy man's sport in Colombia. But while most of those in the stands at the capital's 15,000-capacity Santamaria bullring are from the nation's elite, the ones at the sharp end come mostly from humble origins.
Gomez is one of the rising stars of Bogota's fledgling school for bullfighters. His training programme, which he began at 16, includes pitting his wit against a contraption that resembles a shopping cart with horns. And for the last four seasons as a novice, he has cut his teeth on fighting the smaller bulls.
Like scores of other youngsters, his dream is to become a top professional -- a major league matador. His performances on two consecutive Sundays in October have drawn rave reviews from critical crowds and the specialist press. If all goes well, he may get his chance at the big time when the main season starts in December.
"I've often thought what would happen if I don't succeed in becoming a matador but I don't worry. It's something that I have to achieve -- it's as simple as that," he said in a short break from training.
Even if he does succeed in following in the footsteps of his idol Cesar Rincon -- reigning king of Colombian bullfighting -- 1,300 pounds (600 kgs) of killing machine will not be the only obstacle between him and living happily ever after. The sport's patrons are a wealthy minority who often value political and social contacts above ability, making it difficult for poorly connected youngsters to rise on merit.
In addition, every time a Colombian steps into the ring, he is fighting to get out of the ghetto that he has been cast into by a sport dominated by Spaniards.
"Colombian bullfighters have always been on unequal terms compared to the Spanish. While the Spanish were going from one big bullring to another the Colombians have to travel by bus along dusty village tracks looking for bulls to fight," said matador Alberto "El Bogotano" Ruiz, the training school's resident instructor.
When young hopefuls between the ages of 13 and 17 arrive at the school, Ruiz watches closely for a rare combination of intelligence, physical fitness, bravery and "the poor man looking for fame and the chance to live a little like the rich man." Fellow instructor Pablo Becerra separates bullfighters into those who are brave and those with great artistry. The brave ones, he says, fill seats and make millions as crowds flock to feel the fear and see if the bull finally gets its own back.
But far from the macho world portrayed in novelist Ernest Hemingway's "Death in the Afternoon" and "The Sun Also Rises," the head of Colombia's only bullfighting school does have his sensitive side. "Of course it's cruel to kill the bull but that's our job," Ruiz said. "But it's not like killing an enemy. We try to do it the best way possible. The fiesta brava is all about courage and death."
Demand for space has eased slightly as a recent backlog is cleared and some airlines provide extra capacity, but key ex-Hong Kong rates have continued to rise, Reuters research shows.
Airlines and freight forwarders report brisk business as the territory's traditional peak season gathers pace and high demand for space has allowed airlines on European routes to again raise rates for the second time within three weeks.
A rise of 50 HK cents a kg on October 16 follows a HK$2 a kg rise imposed on October 1 on key routes to Europe. Transpacific demand is also said to be especially strong allowing rates to firm slightly.
Pressure for cargo space is also being exacerbated by high demand on passenger flights which is reducing bellyhold capacity for many airlines.
Sam Chung, the chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Freight Forwarding Agents and director and general manager of Fritz Air Freight (HK) Ltd, said the market was very strong especially in his company's main sector, the United States.
"Every single flight is full but space should become a little better because some airlines are putting on extra capacity. In early October there was a backlog everywhere but that is now easing," Chung said.
He also highlighted the HK$2 a kilo rate rise on routes to Europe from October 1 with more "unfair rises" due to bite.
Two U.S. airlines have drafted in extra aircraft to cope with heavy trans-Pacific demand.
Polar Air Cargo is employing two additional Boeing 747 freighters between the territory and Chicago and New York.
"At the start of October it was really busy with a lot of airlines having a backlog in Hong Kong, Japan and Taiwan. But right after China's national day and the mid-Autumn festival when a lot of factories closed down it gave us the chance to move a lot of cargo out of Hong Kong and gave us the chance to clear the backlog," said David Sung, Polar Air's Hong Kong sales manager.
More extra capacity on the trans-Pacific route has come from Evergreen International Airlines Inc which says it now offers six Boeing 747 flights a week instead of four previously. The additional flights on Mondays are to Columbus,Ohio then onto New York and Los Angeles.
"All flights are absolutely full and if we had additional flights. into Hong Kong we would have no problem filling them because there is a lot of freight being moved and a backlog is building up," said Evergreen's Vice President Kersti Krepp.
There is also extra capacity being drafted onto a main European route. Lufthansa Cargo AG says it will put an additional freighter on the Hong Kong to Frankfurt route before the end of the month because of high demand.
The extra flight will increase the total number of flights Lufthansa operates to Germany in a joint venture with Cathay Pacific Cargo to 11 per week. September also saw an additional freighter being drafted onto the route increasing the number of joint freighter from nine a week during July and August to 10 now.
British Airways World Cargo ,which has three freighter flights per week between Hong Kong and London Gatwick wet-leased from Atlas Air, in addition to belly cargo space on its twice daily passenger flights to Heathrow, also reports a very strong market.
"This is the peak of the year and we have been very strong and are very pleased with our performance. Every available metre of space is full and we think that will carry on for the forseeable future," said Chris Humphrey, British Airways' regional cargo manager Pacific who is based in Hong Kong.
He said rates to Europe have increased to reflect the strength of the market and thinks another rate rise is justified.
"Fuel prices have gone through the roof. Yields are again at the same level they were last year but underlying costs are increasing, particularly fuel," complained Humphrey.
Mark Wilson, Managing Director of freight forwarders Benair Freight also said pressure for space has recently eased as a backlog is cleared.
"Space is tight but available which proves that the airlines are working together and not discounting too much. Rates have stayed firm and the airlines are trying to keep rates up," he said.
He said rates to Europe have recently increased by around 20 per cent and by 15 per cent to the U.S. Inter-Asian rates are stable where yields are traditionally stronger.
Stanley Hui, the chief operating officer of the territory's only all cargo airline AHK Air Hong Ltd, which flies 747 freighters both east and westbound, said he had no complaints especially about the trans-pacific sector.
"Unlike in previous years, there has not been that much additional capacity employed during the peak period. Demand both in and out of Europe is also firm and services to Japan are busy. After last year's record year and a slow start to this year we have high expectations about Japan," Hui said
The latest statistics from Hong Kong's Civil Aviation department show Tokyo-Narita to be the biggest importer of Hong Kong goods. 8,742 tonnes of air cargo was flown from Hong Kong to the Japanese capital during August, according to the statistics.
Hui also said he expected rates to Europe to continue to rise.
"We are not trying to be greedy but we can't lose money forever and all cargo airlines are trying to recover what we have lost," Hui said.
Many airlines report being especially badly hit by Hong Kong's seasonal monsoon winds. Northerly winds mean aircraft have to take off in a steep climb over densely populated Kowloon and payload has to be reduced.
Air France Cargo said all carriers were being affected on both European and trans-Pacific long haul routes by having to suddenly off-load pallets and a backlog of more than 400 tonnes built up in early October.
"Everybody is being hit by these weather conditions and customers are unhappy about having their cargo left behind - but so are we. It is the first time I've ever known so much having to be offloaded," said Philippe Bour, the airline's regional cargo manager for Hong Kong, China, Macau, Taiwan and South Korea.
Paul Choi, assistant general manager of MSAS Cargo International in Hong Kong said the back log has now eased, partly due to more cargo being flown from Macau.
Gemini Air Cargo flew its first McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30 freighter into the Portuguese enclave from New York on September 27 with about 40 tonnes of cargo mostly destined to be shipped to Hong Kong. The airport which opened last November says Gemini is the fourth all cargo service to serve Macau on a regular basis and unlike Hong Kong has no severe space and slot restrictions or curfew.
Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Ltd (HACTL), which enjoys a monopoly on cargo handling at Kai Tak airport said after a "pretty lack lustre" first half the market has picked up during August and September which should continue in the traditional peak period towards Christmas.
HACTL reported a 7.1 per cent increase in throughput during September over last year whnn exports and imports rose by 5.5 per cent to 68,673 tonnes and 7.3 per cent to 49,063 tonnes respectively over September last year.
HACTL managing director Anthony Charter said transshipments "soared" 13.7 per cent to 16,775 tonnes "which interestingly may point to sign of a regional pick-up."
"There seems to be a shortage of capacity which is traditional at this time of year along with the hike in rates. I think this year we are seeing a slightly more positive outloook," Charter said.
HACTL says it is on course for another record year and expects a rise of around four per cent which is a far cry from the 23 per cent growth in previous years but "still welcome." --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017
Chinese President Jiang Zemin on Thursday used the 60th anniversary of a communist military ordeal to try to strengthen his grip on the army by exhorting soldiers to toe the party line.
Western diplomats have said that whether Jiang will be able to fill the shoes of his mentor, paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, now 92 and in fragile health, depends to a large extent on his ability to win the military to his side.
"The Long March victory fully illustrates that the party's absolute leadership over the army is...the core and spirit of our army's fine tradition," Jiang said in reference to the communist army's epic, 9,650-km (6,000 mile) trek across the mountains of China in 1934-1936.
"Every comrade in the army must firmly note this basic principle and at any time and under any circumstances must not waver, even in the slightest," the Xinhua news agency quoted Jiang as saying in a speech to army leaders and veterans.
Officers and soldiers should heed the direction of communist rulers and strive to enforce the party line, Jiang advised his audience of mostly ageing People's Liberation Army (PLA) veterans.
The PLA owed its survival of the gruelling journey as well as its subsequent victory over the Nationalist forces in 1949 to the firm leadership of the Communist Party, Jiang said.
Jiang exhorted the army to be "forever be loyal to the party, loyal to socialism, loyal to the motherland and loyal to the people".
In a rare deviation from his usual dark, western-style suit and red tie, Jiang sent the army a visual signal by donning a military green Mao suit during his address to the military elders that was broadcast on state television.
Other party and army leaders used the occasion to voice their support for Jiang, who already holds the three most powerful jobs in China -- state president, Communist Party chief and head of the powerful Central Military Commission -- but has yet to accumulate full power as Deng's anointed successor.
Vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission Liu Huaqing urged the military to unite under the banner of Jiang as leader of the party.
"We must...uphold the party's basic theory and basic line and resolutely protect the collective authority of the third generation of leaders with Comrade Jiang Zemin as the core," Liu said.
Western analysts have said Jiang, who has no military experience and is not a veteran of the Long March that honed most of China's previous top leaders, still needs to shore up his position with the army after Deng's death.
Jiang, fearful that two decades of economic reform has undermined the communist's grip on power, has made repeated calls for officials to be politically correct and toe the party line.
Two prominent Chinese dissidents recently penned a bold statement calling for Jiang's impeachment for violating the constitution by saying the army should be under control of the party instead of the state.
One of the authors, Liu Xiaobo, was detained last week and sentenced to three years in a labour camp. Co-author Wang Xizhe has since fled to the United States.
China's leaders have agreed on a need to stimulate the economy but the central bank is trying to keep the policy low-key, a senior Chinese economist said on Thursday.
"There is a broad consensus on a need to stimulate the economy," said Fan Gang, an economist and director of the China Reform Foundation, an authoritative think-tank.
"But the central bank wants to keep this low-key," he told reporters in a broad-ranging discussion of China's economic policy.
China has largely relaxed its three-year programme of economic austerity aimed at wringing inflation out of the economy.
Retail price inflation had reached a worrisome 21.7 percent in 1994 but was brought down to 14.8 percent last year.
In September this year it fell to 5.0 percent, well within the government target of 10 percent for the full year.
At the same time, economic growth has managed to reach about 9.0 percent, though Fan said that a build-up of inventories -- some of that unsaleable -- probably accounted for about 1.5 percentage points of economic growth.
The central bank, the People's Bank of China, has cut interest rates twice this year, partly as a response to the marked gains in bringing inflation under control.
The People's Bank was also trying to lend a helping hand to ailing state industry, which has been saddled with heavy interest payments on its huge debts.
Central bank officials have said that the interest rate cuts did not mean a loosening of monetary policy, and that they would keep policy "appropriately tight".
"Central bank officials want to keep the word 'tight' in the policy," said Fan, adding that they did not want to see a renewed surge of government spending that would once again pump up inflation.
He said, however, that there still were controls on fixed investment that could be eased somewhat.
"The central government needs to accelerate growth without overheating," he said. "We need the highest growth possible."
The economist said there was still plenty of idle capacity in the state sector with many of the employees of state industry on leave from their jobs on partial pay because of a lack of orders.
Much of that was concentrated in the nation's "rust bowl" in the northeast, a bastion of heavy industry that has relied on central planning and been unable to upgrade its antiquated equipment and shed its huge payrolls of excess workers.
"From the point of view of reform, higher growth makes (reform of state industry) easier," he said
Much of China's creaking state industry needed to cut surplus labour to become more efficient, Fan said, although he conceded that this was still a politically sensitive issue.
"Social stability is still a big factor," he said.
The president of Chinese state oil refiner Sinopec said on Thursday the country planned to increase refining capacity and ethylene production to help keep up with rapid economic growth and fast rising energy demand.
"Within the ninth five-year plan (1996-2000), we will boost our economic system and growth...According to the government, we have been designated a pillar industry in the country," said Sheng Huaren, president of China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec).
Sheng was speaking at the beginning of a five-day exhibition in Hong Kong featuring more than 60 Sinopec subsidiaries, amongst them refiners, petrochemical plants, engineering companies and trade and investment arms.
Sheng outlined Sinopec's expansion plans in two phases.
By 2000, the company will have increased its refining capacity to over 200 million tonnes per year (4.0 million barrels per day  bpd ) while its ethylene production capacity would hit around five million tonnes per year.
By 2010, refining capacity will hit 300 to 350 million tonnes per year (up to 7.0 million bpd) while ethylene production would reach 8.0 to 10 million tonnes, Sheng said.
Sinopec's crude refining capacity is currently 166 million tonnes per year, with ethylene output at 2.36 million tonnes per year.
Fast economic growth is forecast to raise China's oil demand. Experts say refined oil product consumption will rise to 4.2 million bpd in 2000 and 6.8 million bpd in 2010 from 3.07 million bpd in 1995.
The world's sixth largest oil producer, China became a net oil importer in 1993 when brisk economic development outpaced domestic oil output, which is burdened by ageing oilfields and a lack of new discoveries.
While attempts are being made to locate new fields, Beijing has also given a clear mandate for refineries, particularly those along the coast and in big cities, to expand their capacities and upgrade to produce cleaner, more environmentally friendly products.
There are also indications that primary oil refining expansion will be accompanied by upgrading secondary petrochemical plants.
"The code is now "oil and chemical'. Based on experiences of the oil industry elsewhere, such an approach is more realistic, comprehensive," said a senior official with the Fujian refinery, in the southeastern province of Fujian.
China's biggest refinery, Yanshan in Beijing, plans to increase its 9.5 million tonnes per year capacity to 10 million tonnes before 2000, a senior official told Reuters.
Ethylene production, which has been expanded from 300,000 tonnes per year to 450,000 tonnes per year since September 1994, will be increased to 600,000 tonnes during the same period, she said.
In Fujian, the 2.5 million tonnes per year refinery will be expanded to 4.0 million tonnes by 1997. Talks are also underway with foreign investors to expand capacity further to 8.0 million tonnes per year and build an ethylene plant of 600,000 tonnes capacity, a Fujian official said.
Fierce bidders for the 10 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) joint venture plan are Amoco Corp and Exxon Corp.
Yangzi refinery in Nanjing in Jiangsu province plans to raise capacity to 8.0 million tonnes from 5.5 million tonnes per year, a senior refinery official said.
It signed a letter of intent with BASF AG in March to build an integrated petrochemical site. The 50-50 joint venture, worth 50 billion yuan ($6 billion), has 16 plants, one of which is a 600,000 tonnes per year ethylene facility.
(US$1 = 8.3 yuan)
--Hong Kong newsroom (852) 28436441
China tried to backtrack on Thursday from a warning to Hong Kong people on limits to their freedom of expression after the territory reverts to Beijing rule in 1997, saying liberties would remain but within the law.
"Hong Kong people will have full freedom of expression, but all freedoms must be within the limits allowed by law," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a news briefing.
His remarks followed an interview with Foreign Minister Qian Qichen by the Asian Wall Street Journal in which Qian hinted that Hong Kong would no longer be able to mark the anniversary of Beijing's June 4, 1989, crackdown on student-led protests.
Qian's interview stirred an outcry in Hong Kong, where China has pledged a high degree of political freedoms for 50 years after the handover on July 1, 1997, and not to change its current capitalist system.
"China has obviously inflicted a fair amount of political damage in Hong Kong, it is now trying to undo some of that damage," said one China analyst.
Shen said Hong Kong residents would have freedom of the press and freedom of speech but such liberties would have to operate within the boundaries of the law.
"Any activities held in Hong Kong must be in accordance with legal regulations," Shen said.
"Hong Kong should not interfere in mainland China's affairs by organising some political activities to attack the mainland's internal affairs," he said.
Shen said the territory, a British colony for a century and a half, would maintain its capitalist system after it returns to mainland control at midnight on June 30, 1997.
"After July 1, 1997, there will be no changes to our one nation, two systems policy, the Hong Kong people will rule Hong Kong," he said. "In our words, well water does not intrude into the river water."
Hong Kong newspaper reports that interpreted Qian's remarks as a ban on activities in the territory to commemorate the 1989 crackdown were wrong, Shen said.
"Hong Kong opinion has misinterpreted Qian's remarks," Shen said, adding that Beijing had not altered its pledge to maintain Hong Kong's current political and economic system unchanged under Chinese sovereignty.
A transcript of Qian's interview showed he was specifically asked to say what activities would not be allowed and whether the 1989 commemoration was among them. Qian replied that he was referring to just such activities.
Shen said people would be free to criticise Beijing but said they should be careful in commenting on Chinese leaders.
"If some media make personal attacks on other people or on our leaders, this touches on news ethics," Shen said without elaborating.
"Except for national defence and foreign affairs, the central government will not interfere (in) any activities of the Hong Kong special administrative region's government, and Hong Kong should not interfere in mainland internal affairs," Shen said.
Shen said dissidents in Hong Kong would be free to travel outside the territory but should respect local laws while in Hong Kong.
"Hong Kong dissidents in Hong Kong will have the freedoms to go and stay, but if they stay there, they must act in accordance with local laws," Shen said.
Hong Kong civil aviation department statistics show total air cargo handled in August by country rose by 6.7 percent compared with the same month last year.
Air cargo imports on both scheduled and non-scheduled flights reached 59,910.5 tonnes and 71,674.9 tonnes for exports.
The top 15 countries figures (rounded) are shown in tonnes in the table below in alphabetical order.
			AUGUST 1996 ALL CARGO
			Unloaded     Loaded    Pct change
						     from July 95
AUSTRALIA	    2,675	  2,327    -8.65
CANADA		 1,836	  1,508     8.95
CHINA MAINLAND     1,841	  2,896     9.46
FRANCE		 1,720	  2,010     5.69
GERMANY		3,365	  3,866     4.70
JAPAN		  5,570	 12,197     2.35
SOUTH KOREA	  3,026	  3,867     7.95
MALAYSIA	     2,052	  1.634     5.00
NETHERLANDS	  1,142	  1,167     4.70
PHILIPPINES	  1,600	  1,737    -6.12
SINGAPORE	    4,430	  3,945    12.30
TAIWAN		 9,880	  7,161    26.98
THAILAND	     5,475	  2,380     6.62
UK		     3,378	  3,850    13.72
USA		    4.812	 14,722    -1.15
- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 542 5017
Hong Kong civil aviation department statistics show cargo handled in August totalled by region rose by 6.7 per cent compared with the same month last year.
Air cargo imports on both scheduled and non scheduled flights reached 59,910 tonnes and 71,675 tonnes for exports.
Regional figures (rounded) in tonnes are shown in the table below.
		    AUGUST 1996 - ALL FLIGHTS
			    Unloaded    Loaded	Pct change
							    from Aug 95
 Africa			195	   241	20.0
 Asia - others	   4,013	 4,824	12.0
 Australasia	     2,996	 2,676	-6.1
 Continental Europe    8,850	 9,449	 1.6
 Japan		     5,570	12,197	 2.4
 Mainland China	  1,841	 2,896	 9.5
 Middle East		 700	 1,291	 2.7
 SE Asia		  15,306	10,845	 8.0
 South America		66	    65     -21.2
 Taiwan		    9,938	 7,163	27.0
 UK			  3,380	 3,850	14.0
 USA/Canada		6,940	16,176	 0.1
 Total		    59,910	71,675	 6.7
- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Japan's rule-bound markets must be fully deregulated to ensure that the nation does not fall further behind in the global finance business, an influential reform panel said on Thursday in an interim report.
Establishing markets to effectively manage 1,000 trillion yen ($8.92 trillion) of individual assets through deregulation is particularly important ahead of a rapid rise in the proportion of old people, key panel member Kazuhito Ikeo said.
"Unless Japan speeds up restructuring of the financial system, it will be left behind in global competition even more than now, particularly asset management services," Ikeo, a professor at Keio University in Tokyo, told reporters.
The proposal includes abolition of all rules on the range of businesses which units of banks and brokers are allowed to engage in by the end of fiscal 1997/98 year in March.
It also recommended a fundamental revision in the Securities and Exchange Law and liberalisation of commissions on stockbroking, as well as lifting an almost 50-year ban on holding companies, which control one or more companies, often through a majority stake.
Ikeo said the panel, made up of private-sector figures and academics, focused on benefits for consumers and put aside an expected negative impact on existing financial firms.
Although the panel was urging total deregulation in the financial industry, Ikeo said, if there was a need for rules in exceptional cases, they should be clearly written in financial laws so bureaucrats would not need to intervene.
In the past, deregulation plans were drawn up by bureaucrats in powerful ministries such as finance, trade and construction, which have carefully guarded industries they surpervise. But these have been slow in getting results, and criticism from the United States and other major trading partners has continued.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto's government has wanted to step up efforts to cut bureaucratic red tape to boost the fragile economy, because its high-cost structure is making the country less attractive to investors.
The panel, set up in July by the Economic Planning Agency, comprises six subcommittees focusing on finance, information technology, distribution, land, employment and medicine.
The subcommittees on land, distribution and medicine presented proposals last week and the two on employment and medicine unveiled recommendations separately on Thursday, all of which called for sweeping reform in each field.
The proposals will become an outline for the advisory council's final recommendation to the prime minister, which will be made in December after the council hears the opinions of bureaucrats on each issue.
Panel chairman Koichi Minaguchi told a news conference that he wanted to ensure that the panel's efforts would not be a "total waste of energy".
"The ministries concerned all agree that they are heading in the direction outlined in the reports, but when it comes to specifics, they said they still have different opinions," Minaguchi said.
EPA officials were also cautious about the future of the proposals by the panel, however, as any action taken may hinge on the outcome of general elections set for October 20.
"It is not clear how ministers in the new government to be formed will treat those proposals," an EPA official said.
Haruo Shimada, also a key member of the panel, said, however, that any delay in overhauling laws relating to employment would be "suicidal".
While the number of workers would rapidly fall after 2010, Japan still uses employment laws established half a century ago. "If we don't start (reform and deregulation), immediately, it would be suicidal," Shimada said. ($1=112 yen)
Just days after pleading guilty to price fixing and agreeing to pay $100 million in fines, Archer Daniels Midland Co. lost two key executives Thursday, as the giant agricultural products company remained dogged by controversy.
ADM said Michael Andreas, vice chairman and son of influential Chairman Dwayne Andreas, took a temporary leave, and Terrance Wilson, a vice president in charge of corn refining, retired for medical reasons relating to progressive heart disease.
Michael Andreas and Wilson are being investigated by the Justice Department in connection with a price-fixing scheme.
The Decatur, Ill.-based company, which advertises itself as "Supermarket to the World," has said previously that indictments were being considered against Wilson and Michael Andreas.
On Tuesday, ADM pleaded guilty to two counts of pricing-fixing and agreed to pay $100 million in fines to the federal government, the largest penalty ever in a criminal antritust case.
That day, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gary Spratling said federal authorities were still gathering evidence in the case involving Wilson and Michael Andreas.
William Leach, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, said some had expected Wilson and Michael Andreas to step down. "I'd say it's hardly unexpected given the circumstances," he said.
The announcement that Michael Andreas was taking leave and Wilson had retired came after the company's shareholder meeting Thursday at its central Illinois headquarters here. No mention of the investigation of the two executives was made by the company during the meeting.
Dwayne Andreas, like other ADM officials who spoke at the meeting, used mostly euphemisms when referring to ADM's guilty pleas to two counts of pricing-fixing and an agreement to pay $100 million in fines to the U.S. government.
"I acknowledge to you that this occurred on my watch as chairman of your company," Dwayne Andreas told shareholders at the annual meeting here. "You have my apology and my commitment that things are arranged so that this will never happen again."
One of the few direct mentions of the antitrust investigation came in response to a question from Ed Durkin of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, an institutional shareholder.
Durkin asked why ADM had not notified shareholders officially of its guilty pleas to two counts of price fixing and the $100 million plea. Richard Reising, corporate secretary and general counsel, said the company did not consider it necessary given the amount of publicity the antitrust settlement received.
ADM board member Brian Mulroney, former Prime Minister of Canada, told shareholders the "consensual resolution" with the Justice Department was reached after negotiations with the board's special committee of independent directors.
"This has been a terribly unfortunate experience for the company and we as a committee deeply deplore it," Mulroney said."It is our intention to ensure that the company learns from mistakes in the past and acts so that they never happen again," Mulroney said.
A proposal requiring the board be composed of a majority of independent directors was defeated, but received 42 percent of the votes cast.
Other shareholder proposals addressing corporate governance issues did not pass. ADM's slate of 12 directors was approved by about 89 percent of the votes cast, the company announced.
The new board, which was reduced in number from 17, was hailed by ADM as a more independent body since Dwayne Andreas is the only company executive remaining on the board.
The antitrust investigation sparked criticism from some large shareholders who questioned the independence of ADM's board of directors and its ability to oversee management.
In a statement released following the meeting, Charles Valdes, chairman of the the California Public Employees Retirement System (Calpers), said "Calpers will continue to meet with directors and pursue the wishes of shareholders that want a majority of independent directors and increased oversight of the ADM board."
Archer Daniels Midland Co.'s Chairman Dwayne Andreas apologised to shareholders Thursday for the "difficult situations" that the company faced over the past year.
Andreas, like other ADM officials who spoke at the meeting, used mostly euphemisms when referring to ADM's guilty pleas to two counts of pricing-fixing and an agreement to pay $100 million in fines to the U.S. government.
"I acknowledge to you that this occurred on my watch as chairman of your company," Andreas told shareholders at the annual meeting here. "You have my apology and my commitment that things are arranged so that this will never happen again."
A proposal requiring the board be composed of a majority of independent directors was defeated, but received 42 percent of the votes cast.
Other shareholder proposals addressing corporate governance issues did not pass. ADM's slate of 12 directors was approved by about 89 percent of the votes cast, the company announced.
The new board, which was reduced in number from 17, was hailed by ADM as a more independent body since Andreas is the only company executive remaining on the board.
William Bell of the Florida Retirement System Trust Fund said he hoped the 42 percent of the votes cast in favour of the outside director measure would send a signal to ADM about shareholder concerns regarding the independence of the board.
"I think it's a positive number," Bell told reporters after the meeting. The Florida trust fund and the California Public Employees Retirement System (Calpers) co-sponsored the independent board proposal.
In a statement released following the meeting, Charles Valdes, chairman of the Calpers, said "Calpers will continue to meet with directors and pursue the wishes of shareholders that want a majority of indpependent directors and increased oversight of the ADM board."
During the meeting, no mention was made of a pending U.S. Department of Justice investigation of Michael Andreas, vice chairman and son of Dwayne Andreas, and Terrance Wilson, a group vice president in charge of corn refining.
These two executives are eligible for stock options under an incentive plan that was approved by stockholders Thursday, the company said in response to a question.
The antitrust investigation sparked criticism from some large shareholders who questioned the independence of ADM's board of directors and its ability to oversee management.
One of the few direct mentions of the antitrust investigation came in response to a question from Ed Durkin of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, an institutional shareholder.
Durkin asked why ADM had not notified shareholders officially of its guilty pleas to two counts of price fixing and the $100 million plea. Richard Reising, corporate secretary and general counsel, said the company did not consider it necessary given the amount of publicity the antitrust settlement received.
ADM board member Brian Mulroney, former Prime Minister of Canada, told shareholders the "consensual resolution" with the Justice Department was reached after negotiations with the board's special committee of independent directors.
"This has been a terribly unfortunate experience for the company and we as a committee deeply deplore it," Mulroney said.
"It is our intention to ensure that the company learns from mistakes in the past and acts so that they never happen again," Mulroney said.
He referred to the investigation of ADM as a "shadow" that was cast on the future of the company.
"While some matters still await resolution, I am pleased to tell you today that we have begun to cast off that shadow and move the company forward into the future...," Mulroney said.
With most of their third quarter results in, regional Bells are fulfilling their promise to build out more telephone lines, to put more new services on each line and to make more money doing it.
Share analysts say the Bells and GTE Corp show no signs of slackening demand and are preparing themselves well for the challenge of full competition in their local markets.
"I would characterise the quarter as a cause for celebration in just about every instance," said Bill Vogel of Dillon Read, a long-time bull on regional Bell stocks.
Thursday saw results of Bell Atlantic Corp BellSouth Corp Pacific Telesis Group and SBC Communications Inc, following results on Tuesday from Ameritech Corp and on Wednesday from GTE Corp. NYNEX Corp and U S West Inc report next week.
Earnings per share growth averaged 8.25 percent, ranging from 3.0 percent at Ameritech to BellSouth's 12.5 percent. All were within a cent of analyst's First Call estimates.
"Generally the bottom line results have come in as expected," said Goldman Sachs analyst Julie Kennedy.
Annual access line growth has averaged 4.9 percent, well above levels seen in the 1980s and early 1990s, boosted by demand for Internet access, home computers, facsimile machines and extra business lines.
"The temporary scare the market had with Ameritech's line growth seems a one-off," said Kennedy.
Ameritech saw a dip in line growth to 3.7 percent from 4.4 percent from a year ago, but it followed a drop in advertising and seemed to reflect changed priorities, analysts said.
Pacific Telesis, which is being taken over by SBC, reported strong results which reflected a bounce-back in the California economy. The toll market, a problem area for the company in previous quarters, came good with stable market share and a 6.1 percent increase in revenues year-on-year.
Vogel said the market was absorbing competitive access providers (CAPS) like MFS Communications Co Inc and Teleport Communications LP, without hitting the Bells' growth.
"Results show that the main business lines of the Bells are untouched in both price and volume by the CAPS," he said.
Nevertheless, Bell shares remained muted on Thursday, with none of those reporting results moving more than 1.5 percent.
The Bells have underperformed the broad market this year, with analysts saying investors remain concerned about regulation and competition stemming from the 1996 Telecom Act.
This week's good news, in the shape of a legal challenge to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) jurisdiction over the pricing process for reselling local circuits to competitors, is still lost in the broader Bell worries.
The FCC has to review the prices the Bells can charge for access to their local customers in 1997.
"The cloud over these stocks, what has to be decided by the FCC on access charges, has still not lifted," Kennedy said. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
Apple Computer Inc.'s unexpected fourth quarter profit initially impressed Wall Street, but some analysts said Thursday that the computer maker was not out of the woods yet.
Apple on Wednesday reported a profit of $25 million for its fiscal fourth quarter, defying Wall Street's expectations for a loss. But analysts said that a steeper-than-expected 23 percent drop in revenue in the quarter could hurt the computer maker's prospects in the new fiscal year.
The analysts said sluggish revenues could force Apple to skimp on research and development spending just as rivals Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp. are preparing innovative software for personal computers that could permanently squelch Apple's technology and ease-of-use bragging rights.
"Apple's never hit a wall like this before," said Kurt King, an analyst at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "They've never seen their sales drop this much before. It's possible they can recover, but unlikely."
Analysts attributed Apple's profit, equal to 20 cents a share, to aggressive cost cutting, lower prices for memory chips, as well as a one-time gain of $17 million. In the 1995 quarter, the Cupertino, Calif.-based company earned $60 million, or 48 cents a share.
Revenues fell to $2.32 billion from $3 billion.
While Apple's machines remain popular in education and publishing, the company has lost many customers to Compaq, Dell, Hewlett-Packard and other competitors.
The man hired in February to revive the company, Gilbert Amelio, the former head of National Semiconductor Corp., has cut costs aggressively but has not found a way to boost sales.
In the crucial December quarter, revenues will be about even with the $2.32 billion reported for the September quarter, Apple executives said.
The prospect of flat sales during the Christmas season, typically the year's busiest, could finally convince loyal developers of educational and consumer software to defect, further loosening Apple's hold on those markets, analysts said.
"I can't remember the last time Apple's revenue declined in the December quarter from the September quarter," said Jim Poyner at Oppenheimer in New York. "Christmas is supposed to be Apple's high-water mark. This isn't a good sign."
The cautious comments were reflected in Apple's stock, which retreated after an early-morning surge to close at $26.375, up 62.5 cents, on Nasdaq. Earlier, the stock was as high as $27.75.
Apple, which lost about $800 million in the three prior quarters, has been slow to introduce new products.
It is not expected to release a new line of low-cost Macintosh machines aimed at consumers until next year, and it has been slow to replace a glitch-prone line of PowerBook portable computers. A new PowerBook line is expected to be unveiled on Monday, analysts said.
In a conference call with reporters and analysts, Apple Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said PowerBook sales were expected to fall $150 million in the current quarter, adding to pressure on revenues.
Anderson also said the company's research and development budget would probably be flat next year.
But the $600 million or so that Apple spent in fiscal 1996 will not keep up with Microsoft and Intel, which are each pouring billions of dollars into improving the multimedia and Internet capabilities of personal computers, analysts said.
"Where are Apple's innovations going to come from?" said Richard Zwetchkenbaum at market researcher International Data Corp. "They've got to come up with something new, something from the ground up."
In the first half of calendar 1996, Apple's share of the domestic computer market fell to 6.7 percent from 9.9 percent in the 1995 period, Zwetchkenbaum said. The rest of the PC market is expected to grow 20 percent this year.
"Apple was the only vendor of the top ten PC makers to fall in shipments this year," Zwetchkenbaum said.
Up to 100,000 tonnes of copper held in Shanghai bonded warehouses, confounding the world market as to its source and ultimate fate, probably belongs to China's strategic state reserve, industry sources said on Friday.
Around 40,000 tonnes of the copper have already been moved to warehouses near the northern port of Yingkou, where some of the strategic stockpile was stored, they said.  
Just who owns the copper is a question that has kept traders and industry analysts guessing since the metal was channelled into Shanghai by the China National Nonferrous Metals Import and Export Corp (CNIEC) in June and July.
It was unclear whether or not the 40,000 tonnes had cleared customs -- which would provide some concrete indication that the strategic reserve, administered directly by the central government's State Planning Commission, owned the copper.
Traders have said the reserve could negotiate concessions on duties -- three percent import tax and 17 percent value-added tax -- that made the copper prohibitively expensive otherwise.  
But one source, the head of a Hong Kong trading house, said it made no difference if the copper was customs cleared or not.
"If they spend all this money moving the copper to Yingkou, it will be sitting there for years," he said.
"Once it arrives in Yingkou, it is subject to monitoring by the State Planning Commission, which has to give permission for any more movement; it is out of the hands of traders," he said.
Mystery has surrounded the Shanghai stockpile in recent months, with traders unsure not only of who owns it, but of its exact size and what its owner planned to do with it.  
Trading sources generally agreed it would be cost-effective to take the copper back into a depleted central reserve as it had already served its purpose in taking advantage of long-term backwardation on the London Metal Exchange (LME).
A backwardation occurs when the spot price of a metal is higher than the forward price.
CNIEC lent around 85,000 tonnes of copper onto the LME between April and June 1995 on behalf of the state reserve, running the state stockpile down to 115,000 tonnes from 200,000 tonnes previously.  
Traders in Asia said CNIEC could well have lent it to the market at around US$2,700 a tonne, and then paid somewhere between $2,200 and $2,400 a tonne when it started taking the metal back earlier this year.
This would have cleared CNIEC a healthy profit, which could then have been used to finance storage and other costs.
Word that CNIEC had offered the copper to European trading houses in a series of secret meetings unnerved an already jittery market.  
Industry analysts Bloomsbury Minerals Economics (BME) said on Wednesday the motivation of the owners of the 85,000 tonnes, "whoever they are, is the most important short-term fundamental" in an already tight world market.
BME repeated in its latest review rumours of involvement by Sumitomo Corp, with CNIEC said to be helping the Japanese trader unload its copper positions after it revealed in June losses of $1.8 billion in a decade of unauthorised deals.
Sumitomo and CNIEC have made no comments on the talk and Chinese traders said they know nothing of such an arrangement.  
Traders in Shanghai said on Thursday they were unaware of movements out of the Shanghai bonded warehouses. They reported more arrivals that were probably spot purchases.
They also expressed concern that the tonnage in bonded warehouses would move onto the domestic market.
But these concerns were irrelevant, a Singapore trader said, despite a forecast that domestic Chinese copper demand could hit one million tonnes this year.  
As with many commodities, "there is a desire (by the Chinese government) to keep a stockpile of the metal," he said. "You don't keep it to help industry, you keep it in case of emergency."
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Like an ageing prizefighter, AT&amp;T Corp is destined to slug it out with vigorous rivals both big and small in the $75 billion long distance telephone arena, with no lift in earnings performance in sight.
Though AT&amp;T has just started to improve its marketing punch, share analysts say by the time it shows up in earnings it will be facing fresh opponents -- muscular regional Bells.
"It is hard to find a positive medium-term outlook for AT&amp;T," said Bette Massick of brokers Bear Stearns, adding that more attractive stocks could be found elsewhere.  
Thursday's third quarter earnings were in line with analysts' estimates, revised after September's profits warning.  But few analysts give hope for a quick profit rebound now that the company's fortunes are so clearly tied to its long distance marketplace.
AT&amp;T earlier reported a 12 percent earnings per share decline to $0.84 from $0.96 a year ago -- with increased competition and higher marketing expenses hitting long distance -- while financial services sank into losses.  
"I don't see much earnings improvement next quarter or in the first two 1997 quarters," said Simon Flannery of brokers J.P. Morgan.  The shares were 1/2 lower at $39-3/8.
AT&amp;T said it has been encouraged by early responses to its new $0.15 a minute flat price for long distance, and analysts say this should stem the weakness for now.
AT&amp;T has a higher proportion of revenues from the consumer long distance market place than its two archrivals MCI Communications Corp and Sprint Corp.  
The spinoff of Lucent Technologies Inc in September and of NCR Corp at the end of 1996, plus numerous unit sales, can only tighten the dependence.
Companies like GTE Corp -- which took half a million long distance customers in its first six months -- and Southern New England Telecommunications Corp are entering the market in a big way, mostly in the consumer area.
They join hundreds of tiny aggressive companies like Excel Communications Inc, which lease the circuits of the big players and then compete with them at low prices.  
By the second half of 1997, dependent on the state of a legal tussle over U.S. Federal Communications Commission resale rules, regional Bells will be starting to enter the long distance market themselves.
By this time AT&amp;T, like other long distance players, is hoping to offer local calling using the circuits of the regional Bells. But the legal challenge led by GTE may succeed in shutting the FCC out of the resale pricing process.
"If so, it will cost AT&amp;T more to get into the local market," Massick said.  
Major players by then will be starting to offer packages including wireless, local and long distance and in some cases satellite or cable television too, all on one bill.
This should shut out some of the small resellers and throw the fight onto brand names, where AT&amp;T should be strong -- but the outcome is far from clear, analysts say.
In the meantime, they are hoping for strong action at the loss-making Universal Card credit card unit.
"The credit card business was very disappointing; that's something to watch going forward," Flannery said.
Analysts were concerned by a worsened risk profile and bad debt record at the unit.  If this can happen during buoyant economic times, a recession would be very painful, they say. -- Nick Louth, New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
At Archer Daniels Midland Co.'s annual meeting last year, Chairman Dwayne Andreas declined to give shareholders the floor, saying, "This meeting runs according to my rules."
This year, however, shareholders are pressing for different rules.
Four institutional shareholders will have the floor at Thursday's meeting here to present proposals dealing with corporate governance -- or how the board of directors oversees corporate management at ADM, which on Tuesday pleaded guilty to two counts of price fixing and agreed to pay $100 million in fines, by far the highest penalty ever for violating antitrust laws in the United States.
In its guilty plea, the company admitted it fixed prices for lysine, a feed additive, and citric acid, widely used in foods, beverages and other products.
The shareholder vote at this year's meeting is expected to be close for one proposal that calls for ADM's board to be composed of a majority of independent directors with no personal or business connections with the company.
A survey of early votes showed that about 47 percent were in favour of the measure, the California Public Employees Retirement System (Calpers) said on Wednesday. Calpers, the nation's largest public retirement system, known for its shareholder activism, co-sponsored the proposal with the Florida Retirement System Trust Fund.
"This proposal is prompted by our belief that the employment, business and family relationships of any corporate director has the potential to raise conflicts of interest that may limit the vigilance and diligence of the board," the co-sponsors said in a supporting statement contained in ADM's proxy materials for the meeting.
The independence of ADM's board has been an issue since it was disclosed in late June 1995 that the company was the target of a federal price-fixing investigation. Despite the settlement with the Justice Department, some major shareholders continue to voice concern about the board's ability to oversee ADM's management.
Of particular concern to some is that the department continues to investigate two top ADM executives -- Vice Chairman Michael Andreas, the son of Chairman Dwayne Andreas, and Terrance Wilson, group vice president in charge of corn refining. Lysine, citric acid and other ADM products are refined from corn.
"There needs to be dramatic reform at this company, at both the board and the management level," said Edward Durkin, director of special programmes at the United Brotherhood of Carpenters union, which is sponsoring a proposal this year to hold directors personally liable in cases of gross negligence.
In addition, the New York City Fire Department Pension Fund has proposed that confidential ballotting be allowed in shareholder votes, except in cases where there is a contested board election.
Since last year's meeting, ADM has agreed to cut its 17-member board down to 12 members. All current company executives have left the board, with the exception of Dwayne Andreas.
Some institutional shareholders have questioned the independence of ADM's nominees as outside directors. One nominee, Mollie Hale Carter, is the daughter of H.D. Hale, a former board member who retired from ADM this year. Other nominees include former Secretary of Agriculture John Block and former Ambassador Richard Burt.
At last year's meeting, which was punctuated with rounds of applause for ADM executives, the board defended its independence. Brian Mulroney, a board member and former prime minister of Canada, said at the time that ADM's independent directors "are fully independent and have the utmost integrity."
Shares in Pearson Plc fell on Thursday as the stock market gave an initial thumbs-down to the appointment of an American woman publishing executive as chief executive of the British media group.
Marjorie Scardino, 49, chief executive of The Economist Group that is half owned by Pearson -- which publishes the Financial Times British business daily -- will succeed Frank Barlow as chief executive at the end of the year.
Her appointment ends a long period of uncertainty over the succession to Barlow, 66, who is retiring.
But market players were dismayed by her close ties with the Pearson group and the fact that a big name executive had not been brought in from outside to knock the business into shape.
"The message that this appointment puts across is that we can expect more of the same from the company. That's not what the market wanted to hear," said one media analyst.
Pearson shares fell to a low of 668 pence after the announcement. They recovered a little but still ended the day 13p lower at 675.
The company also announced that Dennis Stevenson, a non-executive director, becomes deputy chairman now and will take over from Michael Blakenham as chairman next May.
Scardino said that she was not a Pearson insider.
"I would like to put that one to rest -- I am an outsider to Pearson," she told Reuters.
She said that a trust agreement meant that Pearson directors remained in a minority on the Economist board. "We jealously guard our independence, we're not a part of the Pearson group."
Trained as a lawyer, Scardino helped her journalist husband to run the Pulitzer Prize winning local weekly the Georgia Gazette in the 1970s. The couple moved to New York in the 1980s where she headed the Economist's North American operation.
Share analysts say that her main task is to bring focus to Pearson, a sprawling media and leisure company which has a market capitalisation of almost four billion pounds ($6.3 billion).
Barlow has reshaped the company in his six years in charge, selling off the Royal Doulton china business and wine and oil industry interests. The company has focused on three divisions -- Information, Education and Entertainment. Its activities range from Australian soap opera to the Financial Times and analysts say not all pieces of the jigsaw fit.
Scardino, a mother of three, said she was prepared to make radical changes "if needed".
"I know this company has been broken up and put back together (by journalists and analysts) in all kinds of ways. I think I'm aware of all the possibilities."
She won a ringing endorsement from Dominic Cadbury, her colleague as chairman of business publisher the Economist.
"I am sure that she will move quickly to assess the Pearson business and define a new strategic direction which she will set about implementing," he said.
"She has the appropriate experience of publishing and a background as a lawyer, as well as knowing the U.S. and British environments first hand, and has a great record of success in the Economist's growing business and circulation."
Revenue has increased by almost 80 percent in her time at trhe Economist while profit after tax has more than doubled to 17.7 million pounds this year from 7.8 million in 1993. ($1=.6299 Pound)
Shares in perennial bid favourite Zeneca Group Plc spiralled higher once more on Thursday, but analysts said it was on the thinnest of pretexts.
The stock touched a new record of 17.25 pounds during the morning session, with the rise once more triggered by speculation about the intentions of Swiss drugs giant Roche Holding AG. -- hotly tipped by takeover theorists as the only company rich enough to buy Zeneca.
News that Roche had named Franz Humer as chief operating officer combined with talk in the press that Humer is keen to ensure Roche does "not play second fiddle" to his old employer Glaxo Wellcome fuelled the latest rise, traders said.
With few people willing to sell Zeneca stock in case they miss out on any takeover, which could be worth $30 billion, the stock is being continually squeezed higher.
Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull (SGST) analyst Peter Laing said Zeneca shares, which have gained 37 percent this year, are now at "eye-popping" levels. SGST believes that a hostile bid is implausible at current valuations, and, without this, the stock's current rating is increasingly hard to justify.
"Is it valid for a stock which is only two-thirds a drug stock and the rest agro-chemicals and specialty chemicals to be on the same premium as Pfizer?" said Laing, who argued that the current gains are a story of "supply and demand."
Cash-rich Roche is widely believed to want to make a large acquisition, both to reassert its position as number one in Switzerland and to counteract the shortfall in new drugs coming through the industry's pipeline.
But some analysts and industry executives believe that Zeneca would not necessarily be its chosen target.
One industry source said he believed Roche would be much more interested in the U.S. company Schering-Plough Corp, which had a similar market capitalization to Zeneca. He said Roche had eyed Schering Plough on a number of occasions.
Schering-Plough would offer Roche a much stronger footing in the key U.S. market than Zeneca, and it would plug gaps in Roche's existing infrastrucure, offering the Swiss group badly-needed muscle in the non-hospital and U.S. over-the-counter sectors.
However, analysts said Zeneca had a more attractive pipeline of new drugs than Schering-Plough. And as the world's second-biggest cancer drug company after Bristol Myers Squibb Co it would also boost Roche in a key therapeutic area.
"I am quite sure that at the right price several companies would like to acquire Zeneca," said Panmure Gordon analyst Robin Gilbert, adding that good quality medium-to-large businesses like Zeneca and Schering-Plough are few and far between.
But Gilbert said Zeneca, which is "firing on all cylinders" since its split from chemicals group ICI Plc in 1993, is determined to remain independent.
"They believe they have a future as an independent company, and obviously they don't agree with the size philosphy of people like Glaxo Wellcome," Gilbert said.
Riding rising U.S. cable TV fees, Time Warner Inc said its earnings before heavy debt payments shot up 32 percent in the third quarter, compared with the same three months last year.
Covering the quarter before last Thursday's completion of its $7.5 billion acquisition of Turner Broadcasting System, the entertainment group said three hit movies, strong magazine advertising sales helped by the Olympic Games, and good HBO results lifted cash flow to $964 million.
Revenues for the three months ended Sept. 30 were $4.877 billion, up from $4.344 billion a year ago.
Last year's third-quarter cash flow, defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, was $729 million, the company said on Wednesday.
Time Warner, many of whose cable TV and other businesses are co-owned with 25 percent partner U S West Inc. , reported a net loss of $167 million, or 43 cents a share, for the quarter.
Net losses in last year's quarter were $160 million, or 41 cents a share, on 1.5 million more shares outstanding.
Net interest costs were $276 million, up from $259 million in last year's third quarter. Preferred dividends rose to $76 million in the third quarter from $16 million.
Time Warner's stock showed no gain after the results but rose smartly later in the day after top executives told institutional investors that debt reduction was centre stage at the company.
The executives said Time Warner is in active discussions aimed at restructuring its troubled cable-television partnership with U S West Media Group.
One Time Warner executive said the talks with regional phone group U S West, 25 percent owner of most of Time Warner's cable systems, studios and the HBO pay-TV service, are likely to quicken and could yield a deal within months.
"We want to delever the company, lighten up on cable, and simplify the corporate capital structure," said the executive, speaking on a promise of anonymity.
The executives echoed Ted Turner, founder of Turner Broadcasting and now vice chairman of the combined company as well as its biggest individual shareholder. He has said he wants Time Warner's $17.5 billion debt halved.
Time Warner now sees itself with the acquisition of Turner, producer of Cable News Network, The Cartoon Network and two studios, as primarily a programming group, the executives said.
Capital-intensive cable operations are less important and ripe for partial divestment, the executives said. Investment capital can be better used outside cable, the executives said.
EBITDA at Time Warner's cable operations, including those shared with with U S West, rose 14 percent to $512 million, the company said in its earnings report.
Basic cable revenues rose sharply and advertising sales in cable also increased, the company said. With some 12.1 million customers, Time Warner is the nation's second-largest cable operator.
Time Warner also had three summer movies grossing more than $100 million in U.S. ticket sales -- "Twister," "Eraser" and "A Time To Kill".
Time Warner shares rose $1.125 to $42 in New York Stock Exchange Trading.
Apple Computer Inc. stunned investors Wednesday by reporting an unexpected $25 million fourth quarter profit, stemming a year of management turmoil and swelling red ink.
The Cupertino, Calif.-based computer maker, which had been expected to report a loss of 30 cents a share, posted a profit of 20 cents a share for the last three months of fiscal 1996, its first quarterly profit this year.
In the same quarter a year ago, Apple earned $60 million, or 48 cents per share. Included in the most recent quarter's operating results was a gain of $17 million.
Fourth-quarter revenue for fiscal 1996 declined 23 percent to $2.32 billion from $3 billion.
Apple released the news after the market closed and its shares jumped as much as $4.25 to $30 a share in after-hours trading.
Industry analysts attributed the profit to Apple's aggressive cost cutting, a bigger-than-expected exodus of employees and lower prices for key components, such as memory chips.
"It is a shock," said Daniel Kunstler, an analyst at JP Morgan in San Francisco who was expecting a loss. "It seems they've brought the break-even point for their business down pretty dramatically. This is very encouraging."
Most important to investors, Apple could remain profitable in coming quarters, which would bolster confidence among consumers that it will be around for years and keep loyal customers from switching to IBM-compatible personal computers, analysts said.
Fred Anderson, Apple's chief financial officer, stopped short of predicting a profit in the first fiscal quarter.
He said, however, that he expects the company's costs to increase only slightly in the December quarter on higher advertising expenses and that first-quarter revenue should be about the same as in the fourth fiscal quarter.
"We continue to make progress in strengthening Apple's financial condition, as our $410 million in positive cash flow from operations during the quarter suggests," Anderson said.
"We've reduced inventories by nearly $400 million since June and completed the quarter with over $1.7 billion in cash and short-term investments," he said in a statement.
In the previous three quarters, Apple reported huge losses because of declining Macintosh sales, management turmoil and growing popularity of personal computers running Microsoft's Windows software, which compete with Macintosh.
The company began slashing its costs when former National Semiconductor Corp. chief Gilbert Amelio took charge of Apple in February.
With most of the cost-cutting plan completed, Apple now will concentrate on the much tougher task of increasing revenue, Anderson said.
While shipments were down 26 percent in the fourth quarter to 932,000 units from the year-ago quarter, Apple said shipments were up 11 percent from the third quarter, a sign that customers were once again buying Apple's products.
Apple has a slew of new products in the works.
On Monday, the company is expected to unveil a new low-end PowerBook, a much-needed portable computer to replace Apple's older glitch-prone models.
In the first calendar quarter, the company also is expected to introduce new low-end consumer desktop models, a niche from which Apple had retreated in an effort to cut costs.
For the full year, Apple reported a loss of $816 million, or $6.59 a share, reflecting a series of hefty one-time charges for inventory writedowns and restructurings. In fiscal 1995, Apple earned $424 million, or $3.45 a share.
Revenue for the year fell 11 percent to $9.83 billion from $11.1 billion a year ago.
Before the huge nickel, copper and cobalt deposits at Voisey's Bay were discovered two years ago, the mainly aboriginal population of Nain did not know much about mining.
But as hundreds of prospectors flooded their snug coastal village in the northern Canadian province of Labrador, the inhabitants figured they had better learn fast.
"It fell on us like a ton of bricks in 1994," said William Barbour, president of the Labrador Inuit Association, which represents the Inuit -- or Eskimos -- who populate the frozen territory, which is on the Canadian mainland but is part of the Atlantic province of Newfoundland.
"There was panic. We felt completely ignored. So we educated ourselves in terms of the mining industry," Barbour told Reuters.
Now, even people with little education can keep up a steady conversation about massive sulphides and tailing ponds.
But that does not mean everybody sees things the same way as Inco Ltd, the Toronto-based nickel giant that owns the deposit. The tight-knit community of 1,200 is split over whether mining will help their remote town.
Adam Igloliorte, a 32-year-old Inuit from Nain, sees development as a chance for a good job. He has worked his way up to general labourer from janitor at the Voisey's Bay site.
Steady work and decent pay are hard to come by in the poor and troubled northern coast of Labrador, especially if, like Igloliorte, you only have six years of schooling.
"I got suspended (from school) and never went back," he said. Now he wants to upgrade his skills to land a permanent job with Inco once it takes over management of operations in January. "That would be excellent."
Igloliorte has improved his standard of living, is able to support his girlfriend and his one-year-old son and buy spare parts for his snowmobile.
He said he trusts Inco to be responsible as it develops the huge metals deposit that sits hidden underneath the moss which caribou graze on.
COMMUNITY FEARS OF WHAT MINING WILL BRING
Others are not as optimistic. They fear mining in the area will bring disease and drugs, destroy their aboriginal culture, eradicate their language, corrupt their daughters and upset the delicate balance of the vital ecosystem.
"Everybody sees some economic benefit. All the talk has been jobs," said Fran Williams, the director of an aboriginal radio station and local activist. "But there's still no focus on what the impact is on culture and tradition."
The effects are already starting to show in Nain, a town accessible only by plane, boat or snowmobile.
The community has struggled since the 1970s, when fish, the main resource, became scarce. Residents have experimented with a fish plant, commercialised caribou hunting and a nearby quarry, but so far nothing has overcome the dependence on government assistance or solved the alcohol and drug abuse, violence and suicide that so often stem from isolation and hardship in the region.
Williams feels mining and exploration are pulling her community further from a solution. Young men have been leaving to work in exploration camps, while women and the older generation stay behind to care for the huge number of children.
The men are too busy to hunt for the winter's supply of caribou, forcing their families to shop for the tasteless, outdated and costly canned food at the Nain grocery store.
"It's already having an impact on women," said Williams. "They are the ones with the least to gain and the most to lose. This activity will be a big disruption of family life."
The older people complain about the constant drone of airplanes and helicopters overhead.
Many of those earning large salaries at Voisey's Bay and other exploration camps have not learned how to handle the money. "We're not wage earners," said Williams. "We get it, we spend it."
While social services and courses may resolve some of the problems, the long-term effects of mining could be devastating.
"Drug abuse is already on the rise," said Williams, adding that she expects an increase in unwanted pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases and violence as strangers bring their bad habits to town.
"It's incredible how all of Labrador has all of a sudden become dots of mining claims," she said. "You no longer feel like you're an inhabitant of your own land."
One 25-year-old from Nain who has worked at the Voisey's Bay site for about two years, is in an ideal position to gain from the development.
The man, who preferred not to be named, said he was kicked out of school, fathered two children when he was in his teens and has a criminal record for a string of alcohol-related assaults.
He was glad to get a position at Voisey's Bay after years of drifting between odd jobs. But he has no plans to make a career of it.
He does not trust Inco to treat him properly or respect the land, he said. And he resents the tight controls of managers, who ban liquor and keep close tabs on the workers.
He said he has seen an influx of drugs on the site, and he has become part of a chain of people who smuggle alcohol into Voisey's Bay for the workers.
Nain's transition to a mining town from a troubled, dependent community is bound to be bumpy, noted John Igloliorte, an elected elder and Adam's father. But he feels the results will be positive for his people.
"In the community, a lot of young people had nothing to do," he said in his native Inuktitut. "They were doing mischief, break and enters. That seems to have stopped a bit now that they have jobs."
Igloliorte and the other elders were opposed to exploration and development when it started, but most have changed their minds as they become better informed, he said.
"The companies are doing a good job. They're looking after the land and the environment," he said. "If they keep doing that, everything will be all right."
Australian steelmaker, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, on Thursday raised the prospect of the world's steel giants forging alliances and together building huge steel mills in Asia to meet the region's increasing demand.
BHP Steel, Australia's biggest producer of raw steel, said companies might be tempted to jointly build major, traditional steel mills in the rapidly growing region instead of going ahead as expected with a rash of smaller new-technology plants.  
"We may see some of the major steel players in the world seriously considering international alliances where they come together to build steel facilities in the developing economies of the world," BHP Steel chief executive Ron McNeilly said.
Big traditional steel mills are in some ways better suited to Asia than the new-technology electric steel-making furnaces, which use large amounts of steel scrap as a feedstock, he told Reuters in an interview.
"The realities are there is not enough scrap in Asia," McNeilly said. But big traditional steel plants required billions of dollars of investment, he added.  
"The funds required ... would just be too large for me to be willing to take that on independently or separately as a single project, totally exposed to all of the risks," he said.
"But as a project in company with other people, it's something that we most certainly would consider," he added.
McNeilly, who is overseeing more than A$500 million of investment in new value-added steel production in Asia, also described plans by BHP's international rivals for major new steel capacity as "talk".  
Asian steel consumption is forecast by the steel industry to underpin strong world demand growth of almost two percent a year for the metal over the next fours year.
BHP's rivals in the Asian region have meanwhile announced plans for major new steel-making capacity, including plans by South Korea's Hyundai Group  for a six million tonnes a year traditional steel mill.
"There's certainly a lot of talk ... but there is not a lot of evidence of that (major new capacity) happening," McNeilly said.  
But he predicted competition in world markets for steel products to remain intense as the north Asian steel-makers of Japan, Taiwan and South Korea vied with European and U.S. steel giants for the growth markets of Asia and Latin America.
"The large successful players in the steel industry are looking for growth ...," McNeilly said.
"They're the people who are going to be looking for investment opportunities, for partners, for alliances with governments and for project opportunities in the region.
"And I think are also going to be looking more and more for other big players to be part of a project with them."  
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
The international partners in Australia's largest gas project said on Thursday they plan to spend A$6.0 billion to double production, making it Australia's largest single resources investment.
Australian oil and gas producer Woodside Petroleum Ltd said the partners in the North West Shelf gas project offshore Western Australia plan to double production capacity to 14.5 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas (LNG) a year.  
The decision by the North West Shelf partners was unlikely to boost the much-touted prospect of a co-operative development with the nearby Gorgon gas field, which has the capacity to produce six million tonnes of LNG a year, analysts said.
"The North West shelf partners have their own plans for expansion, but if the Gorgon partners have a good proposal that we can work together then we will certainly have a look at it," said Woodside's corporate affairs manager Geoff Wedgwood.
"But to date we have not seen a plan from them that fits within our plans," Wedgwood told Reuters.  
Last month an executive of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, a partner in both projects, raised hopes that the two projects could be developed together and questioned the expansion of the Shelf on a stand-alone basis.
Cor Herkstroter, chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell's committee of managing directors, then told Reuters in an interview that expansion of the North West Shelf could not be justified without integrating it with another project and that the development of both projects was a viable option.
Royal Dutch/Shell also owns 34 percent of Woodside.  
Woodside, the project operator, said the expansion plan was submitted to the project's eight Japanese power and gas utility customers at a meeting in Osaka this week.
"It is a significant step for the expansion of the North West Shelf project," Wedgwood said. The partners have spent A$12 billion on the project since it started in the early 1980s.
Woodside is an equal one-sixth shareholder in the project along with some of the world's major oil producers.
The Osaka meeting followed indications from buyers in June of their interest in an expansion of the project, said Woodside.  
However, work on the expansion would not start for another two years at least, Wedgwood said.
"The next thing that is likely to be a letter of intent in late 1997 for the development of this expansion proposal," Wedgwood said. He said between now and then there are lots of talks on technical issues surrounding the proposal.
"Following that would be a purchase agreement between the North West shelf partners and the Japanese buyers, which would be around late 1998," Wedgwood said.  
Only after this agreement would work start on the expansion. Besides Woodside and Shell, the other equal partners in the Shelf are The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, The British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Inc and a partnership of Mitsui &amp; Co Ltd and Mitsubishi Corp.
Shell and Chevron are also partners in Gorgon along with U.S. oil giants Texaco Inc and Mobil Corp.
-- Sydney newsrooom 61-2 9373-1800
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co Ltd's steel division expects to increase its earnings in the current 1996/97 year due to lower costs and improved operations, BHP Steel chief executive Ron McNeilly told Reuters on Thursday.
But BHP Steel sees no major improvement in its home Australian market until possibly the second quarter of calendar 1997, and expects the world steel market to pick up towards the end of the first half of next year, McNeilly said.  
Asked if BHP Steels profit for the the current year ending May 31 would be higher than the division's 1995/96 profit, he said: "Oh yeah, yeah, but as I said we don't make any forecasts."
McNeilly declined to give a forecast for 1996/97 profits but said improvements would be driven by lower costs.
"If there's going to be an improvement in our results -- and I am confident there will be -- it will be an improvement that's driven I think in the near term by better operations and lower costs rather than a market-driven improvement in the short term," he added.  
BHP Steel reported a 44 percent slump in profit to A$375 million before abnormals in 1995/96. Its bottom line sunk 76 percent to A$153 million after a A$222 million write-down of the value of its Newcastle raw steel-making plant in Australia.
McNeilly said he expected steel markets in Australia and abroad to pick around mid 1997, as the domestic economy improved and world steel demand, especially in Asia, fed through into a recovery in depressed world steel prices.
"I don't really see any significant improvement in the Australian scene until sort of maybe the second quarter of next year -- so quite flat," he said.  
McNeilly described domestic demand as very patchy.
"There are some signs of improved demand in the resource and infrastructure areas but no sign of any improvement whatsoever in domestic housing, in most of the rural sector and in general demand, so it really is quite flat," he said.
BHP's export despatches of steel have been increasing, but an intensely competitive steel market has weighed on prices.
McNeilly quoted International Iron and Steel Institute (IISI) forecasts for strong world steel consumption over the next four years and said prices should strengthen between the first half of 1997 and the second quarter of 1998.  
"I think we will see towards the end of the first half of next calendar year, towards the end of the second quarter of 1998, an improvement in demand and prices in Asia and likewise Australia," he said.
"But I do think that from now until then, what we see now will be generally the situation."
The IISI forecasts world steel consumption to grow at close to two percent annually to 714 million tonnes in year 2000, with most of this growth coming from Asia.  
"We are not seeing any improvement that's market derived and I don't think there'll be any improvement that's market derived over the next six months," he said.
BHP Steel's major new projects around the world are still being built and will not boost the division's profit until after 1996/97, he said.
"We won't see any major inflow of profitability from new projects, really until the second half of (calendar 1997), which is the first half of next financial year," McNeilly said.  
He declined to comment on speculation BHP is considering closing its old, integrated raw steel-making plant at Newcastle, rather than investing in a new electric-arc furnace there.
McNeilly said BHP's Glenbrook steel mill in New Zealand, also now under the spotlight, must slash A$50 million from its cost base. "It absolutely has to happen," he said.
He said was encouraged by the resolve "of all those involved" at the 700,000-tonnes-per-year plant to cut costs.
"But if we have sites that don't and won't and can't, and tired assets that can't be rejuvenated, we have to bite the bullet and do the obvious."  -- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Casualties are starting to mount as Chinese buyers of soybeans and soybean meal default or cancel contracts in the wake of falling international prices, Asian trading sources said on Thursday.
"We have stopped doing Chinese business for now," said a trader in Hong Kong with a major international house.
"We're waiting for the market to stabilise and are staying away from the possibility of defaults," he said.
Traders in Hong Kong, Singapore and China reported hearing of Chinese soymeal buyers delaying finance arrangements for orders in an attempt to force sellers to lower their prices.
Another Hong Kong source reported that Chinese buyers had defaulted on three to four cargoes, each of 50,000 tonnes, since last week when international prices began to fall.
"They are defaulting because PRC buyers delayed opening LCs (letters of credit) in the hope of squeezing another two or three dollars from their sellers," he said.
Traders have said these tactics are next to useless as physical soymeal for prompt delivery is tight, and would command a premium that would wipe out any extra profit.
Since entering the international trading arena earlier this decade, Chinese traders have earned themselves a reputation for dubious practices when it comes to paying for their orders.
In some cases, traders have reported, a Chinese buyer will default on or cancel an order for a commodity if the price falls after the order is placed and before it is delivered.
The Chinese company will then attempt to replace the commodity at the cheaper rate.
As a result, when prices of a commodity that is a hot item in China begin to fall, some international traders simply exit the market.
Others insist on deposits, and others grade Chinese traders according to their record of paying up and charge higher premiums accordingly.
Soybean meal has been the hot Chinese commodity of 1996, traders said, with arrivals from South America around 1.2 million tonnes since February.
Traders said maximum Chinese orders of U.S. meal in the past two weeks were 300,000 tonnes.
One trader claiming to have done 400,000 tonnes of beans and meal business in the past two weeks said he had letters of credit from his buyers for 350,000 tonnes.
His sales would show up in U.S. Department of Agriculture figures this week, he said.
The price of soybean meal on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) has been on a rollercoaster ride since late September, and initially dipped while China was on holiday from September 30 to October 3 celebrating National Day.
On October 4, Chinese buyers scooped up more than 600,000 tonnes of beans and meal, mostly of U.S. origin, some South American, paying $300 to $310 a tonne, traders said.
But last Friday, prices started to fall again, by Tuesday coming off another $10 or so a tonne -- and word of Chinese cancellations and defaults began to circle.
Reports from Chicago on Wednesday described the market as perplexed over rumours China had bought or cancelled export orders for U.S. and South American soybeans and soymeal.
CBOT October soymeal closed at $236.30 a tonne, after Tuesday's $235.30.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Chinese officials have called for a war on AIDS, warning that the nation is in danger of losing its last chance to slow the invasion and spread of the disease, state media said on Thursday.
Time was running out to strengthen safeguards against AIDS spreading rapidly through the populations of China's neighbours, minister of the State Family Planning Commission Peng Peiyun told a national meeting on AIDS in Beijing.
"From now until the end of the century is a crucial time for our nation to prevent the spread of AIDS," the official Health News quoted Peng as saying.
"If we do not pay close attention to prevention, the AIDS infection will increase geometrically," she said.
The spread of drug abuse, prostitution and illegal blood supplies could combine with a drastic increase in sexual disease to speed the AIDS epidemic in China, Health Minister Chen Minzhang told the conference, which closed on Thursday.
Many Chinese still knew little about AIDS or the HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) that causes it, Chen said.
"Now is the prime time for prevention and control of HIV infection," the Xinhua news agency quoted him as saying. "It could be the last chance. We have no time to waste."
China's official total for the number of people infected with HIV had hit 4,305, up from 3,341 at the end of 1995, and 131 had developed AIDS, the People's Daily newspaper said.
Officials say tens of thousands of cases go uncounted, and quote experts as estimating the actual number of HIV infections at between 50,000 and 100,000.
China has blamed much of the rapid spread of AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) in recent years on infection via drug addicts in southwestern provinces close to the "Golden Triangle" opium and heroin production area that includes parts of Thailand, Laos and Burma.
"Serious HIV/AIDS epidemics in neighbouring countries may have an impact on the domestic HIV epidemic," said Health Minister Chen. "A large number of migrants provide the opportunity for the spread of HIV infection."
Chinese health departments would continue to crack down on illegal blood banks to try to ensure the safety of blood transfusions, and would join with educational organisations and the media to spread knowledge of AIDS, Xinhua said.
Law enforcement agencies would clamp down on drug abuse and prostitution to try to cut HIV transmission through contaminated needles and sexual contact, it said.
Prostitution and narcotics abuse have both boomed in recent years as nearly two decades of economic reform weaken China's once-strict social controls.
Officials expect a campaign launched by China's communist leaders to promote puritan Marxist values to help cut infection caused by unsafe sex and drug use, but a Beijing AIDS activist said it was still unclear if the effort would really help.
Authorities should put more emphasis on education and health support for high-risk groups instead of relying on official disaproval and the police to curb their activities, activist Wan Yanhui said in a telephone interview.
China had largely failed to reach out to groups such as sex workers, drug addicts and homosexuals, many of whom still considered AIDS a foreigners' affliction, he said.
"There is not much public understanding (of AIDS)...the work done on the social side has been very weak," he said. "There needs to be a change in thinking."
A prominent exiled Chinese human rights activist has said his contacts with detained dissident Wang Dan do not justify the capital charge against the former student leader, who is expected to go on trial soon.
Wang Juntao, who now lives in the United States, has prepared written testimony rejecting charges that Wang Dan conspired with him to subvert the government, according to a U.S.-based human rights group.
"Wang Juntao has already ... prepared testimonial materials and turned them over to Wang Dan's relatives," said a statement from Human Rights in China received in Beijing on Thursday.
Wang Dan played a key role in pro-democracy demonstrations crushed by the army in 1989.
The charges against him included "collaborating with Wang Juntao and acting as director of the 'China Research Centre' established by Wang Juntao in the United States with the aim of subverting the Chinese government", the statement said.
Court officials have confirmed that Wang Dan, detained since May 1995, has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government -- a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death and a minimum of 10 years in prison.
Wang Juntao, condemned by Beijing as one of the "black hands" behind the student-led movement, was freed from prison on medical parole in 1994 and allowed to leave China for the United States.
He said his research centre was dedicated to studying the problems of China's modernisation drive and that Wang Dan had played but a nominal role in it.
"Wang Dan...acted as an honorary director and never published opinions in connection with the research centre's work and never participated in any of its activities," the statement quoted Wang Juntao as saying.
Other evidence against Wang Dan included taking part in home studies offered by a U.S. university and accepting donations and economic aid from overseas groups.
U.S.-based Chinese democracy activist Cheng Zhen said a group she headed had assisted Chinese student activists in enrolling in home study classes at foreign universities by helping them pay tuition and book fees but had no other dealings with them, the statement said.
"Wang Dan was helped in this way by them in selecting a correspondence course with the history department of the University of California, Berkeley," it quoted Cheng as saying.
The statement quoted Wang Dan's mother as saying her son's health had deteriorated while in confinement.
Family members could not be reached for comment.
Wang Dan's trial was expected to be held behind closed doors soon, relatives said earlier, adding that the family had not yet been advised of a trial date.
Wang Dan had already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in the 1989 demonstrations in Beijing which were crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
He had been active since his parole in 1993, defying police harassment to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
The U.S. government's top Asian official, Winston Lord, left China on Thursday, wrapping up a low-profile visit after talks that focused on human rights in China and problems on the Korean peninsula.
Diplomats described the meetings as frank and cordial overall, even though Lord raised the thorny issue of China's treatment of its dissidents amid signs of a renewed crackdown by Beijing's communist rulers on their critics.
Lord, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, arrived on Tuesday for the previously unannounced visit and kept a low-profile while in Beijing, a U.S. embassy official said. He left for Japan on Thursday.
Lord held substantive discussions with Deputy Foreign Minister Liu Huaqiu on Wednesday and also had a brief meeting with Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, diplomats said.
"They discussed a wide range of issues," one Western diplomat said.
The issue of Korea was one focus of the talks and although diplomats said there was little sign of concrete progress, the tone of discussion was positive.
"Both sides want to maintain stability on the peninsula," one diplomat said.
South Korea and the United States in April called for four-nation peace talks with North Korea and China to replace a truce that ended the Korean conflict but left Seoul and Pyongyang technically still at war.
Pyongyang has insisted on bilateral talks with Washington to seek an accord, saying Seoul was not a party to the 1953 truce. China has yet to take a clear stance on the four-way talks.
Frosty relations between Seoul and Pyongyang have been in crisis since last month, when 26 North Koreans landed in the South from a stranded submarine.
Diplomats said Lord's talks did not focus on any single issue, and a major aim of his trip was to prepare for a visit next month by Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
"Generally speaking relations are on the upturn," said one diplomat. Christopher is due to visit Beijing on November 21-22 on a trip originally announced in July.
A row over human rights scarred Christopher's last visit to China in 1993.
The visit would mark the highest point in relations since ties plunged after Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui paid a private visit to the United States in June 1995, a trip that enraged Beijing.
In Washington, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said Lord had raised Chinese treatment of dissidents.
"Human rights have been on our agenda quite importantly over the last couple of days, because of recent arrests of some of the political dissidents, and the recent travel to the United States of a noted champion of human rights. So, that issue for us is front and centre on our agenda with them."
Washington last week sharply criticised the sentencing of dissident Liu Xiaobo to three years in a labour camp, as well as apparent plans to try another pro-democracy activist, Wang Dan, on the capital charge of plotting to subvert the government.
Diplomats in Beijing said China would almost certainly be angered by the arrival of a third dissident, Wang Xizhe, in San Francisco this week after escaping from China.
Both sides have said they were moving toward a possible exchange of presidential visits during 1997.
Among outstanding issues that could spark U.S. anger are China's alleged nuclear sales and human rights record while Beijing blames Washington for holding up its application for membership in the World Trade Organisation.
China's Communist leaders may be fretting about the erosion of the ailing state sector at the expense of more nimble private firms.
But for one of the nation's newest banks -- the China Minsheng Banking Corporation -- this is an opportunity.
Formally inaugurated in January, the bank is aiming to lend the bulk of its funds to China's non-state sector, a rapidly expanding area of the economy.
"We are focusing our business on the non-state sector," chairman Jing Shuping said in an interview. "Many banks are not looking at this area or are unwilling to lend to it."
Much of China's creaking state industry is losing money and unable to compete in domestic or export markets. But for now, Communist leaders are unable to shed an ideological albatross, insisting the state retain the leading role in the economy.
"The state sector will still play the dominant role but there will be a growing non-state sector," said Jing. "This will be good for the economy and good for us."
China Minsheng is a non-state entity, founded with the backing of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce.
It has 59 shareholders, most federation members. Two of the biggest stakes, worth 90 million yuan ($10.8 million) each, are held by diversified Guangzhou Yitong Group and Xiamen Fuxun Group that has interests from real estate to pharmaceuticals.
The bank is relatively small by Chinese standards with total capital of 1.38 billion yuan and assets of 5 billion yuan.
Jing says it may not be profitable in its first year due to start-up costs but it aims for a 50 percent return on shareholder capital by the third year of operation.
By then, it hopes to have assets of over 10 billion yuan.
It differs from many of China's state-run banks that are unable to recover their loans -- made as policy decisions in support of struggling, government-run enterprises.
"We have no policy loans," said Jing.
China Minsheng has extended over 1.0 billion yuan in loans this year -- all on commercial terms.
"Most loans are for working capital and not for more than one year," he said. "All have collateral or a guarantee."
The bank's headquarters are a short walk from the Beijing city government, but Jing said officials do not stroll over to ask for special favours for hard-hit local companies.
"They go to the other banks," he said. "The state banks are trying to become commercial banks but they still have to make some policy loans."
Besides its headquarters and an office for international business, China Minsheng has three branches in Beijing. One is in the Haidian district where many high-technology, non-state companies have sprung up -- just the type of customer it wants.
The bank cannot lure deposits with higher interest rates since all deposit rates are fixed by the central bank.
Instead, it must compete in terms of service, staying open longer hours and pumping funds into improving technology by installing computer and automated teller equipment.
It has some flexibility on the interest it charges borrowers, though, with a range of 10 percent above or below levels set by the central bank.
In the future, China Minsheng will face more competition from foreign banks -- now barred from taking deposits or making loans in Chinese currency.
"At the moment, they cannot do local currency business," said Jing. "But that will change."
The bank is already looking at new areas of business, such as home mortgages, to meet expected demand as China develops a real estate market.
It may also want to tap domestic or foreign capital markets to ensure it has the financial muscle to stay competitive.
"There could be a movement in this direction in the future," Jing said. "But first we need a good performance over the next three years."
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Shares in Pearson Plc slipped on Thursday as the stock market reacted negatively to the appointment of a relatively little-known insider as chief executive of the British media group.
Marjorie Scardino, currently chief executive of The Economist Group that is half owned by Pearson, will succeed Frank Barlow as chief executive at the end of the year.
Dennis Stevenson, who is a non-executive director, becomes deputy chairman now and will take over from Michael Blakenham as chairman at Pearson's annual meeting next May.
The appointment of Scardino ends a long period of uncertainty over the succession to Barlow, 66, who had said he planned to retire by early next year.
But the market greeted her appointment with scepticism, with market players saying they knew little about her. The shares fell to a low of 668 pence, but later recovered to 678 for a loss of 10 pence.
"The market was looking for a big hitter and she wasn't the big name it was looking for," one market-maker said in reference to Scardino.
The market was also worried by a report in the Independent newspaper that said Pearson had resolved concerns about the tax implications of selling its stake in British satellite broadcaster BSkyB but faced difficulties separating direct and indirect holdings.
The report said Pearson's indirect stake of around four percent was worth 440 million pounds ($697.4 million) at BSkyB's current share price.
Pearson, which has a market capitalisation of almost four billion pounds, is a sprawling media and leisure company with interests ranging from the Financial Times business newspaper to television soap opera.
Analysts have criticised the company for a lack of a clear strategy and it has long been seen as a potential bid target.
Scardino said she was excited to be joining Pearson.
"It is one of the few companies positioned strongly enough to take advantage of the opportunities in the rapidly changing, digital-driven international marketplace."
Blakenham, who has been chairman of Pearson since 1983 following a six year stint as chief executive, said in statement the appointments completed the succession process at Pearson.
Barlow, who has been chief executive for seven years, had agreed to extend his contract for two years after his retirement date in 1995 in order to help implement the group's strategy to focus on the media sector.
"I think Pearson's future is very favourable and Marjorie Scardino is a very good appointment," he told Reuters.
Scardino, 49, has been chief executive of the Economist since 1992, before which she headed its North American operations.
Prior to that, she was partner in a Savannah, Georgia law firm and publisher and founder with her husband of a Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper, the Georgia Gazette.
Stevenson is chairman of aircraft leasing group GPA and is also a non-executive director of British Sky Broadcasting, J. Rothschild Assurance Plc and Manpower Inc. ($1=.6309 Pound)
The international partners in Australia's largest gas project said on Thursday they plan to spend A$6.0 billion (US$4.7 billion) to double production, making it Australia's largest single resources investment.
Australian oil and gas producer Woodside Petroleum Ltd said the partners in the North-West Shelf gas project offshore Western Australia planned to double production capacity to 14.5 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas (LNG) a year.
The decision by the North West Shelf partners was unlikely to boost the much-touted prospect of a co-operative development with the nearby Gorgon gas field, which has the capacity to produce six million tonnes of LNG a year, analysts said.
"The North West shelf partners have their own plans for expansion, but if the Gorgon partners have a good proposal that we can work together then we will certainly have a look at it," said Woodside's corporate affairs manager Geoff Wedgwood.
"But to date we have not seen a plan from them that fits within our plans," Wedgwood told Reuters.
Last month an executive of Anglo-Dutch oil giant Royal Dutch/Shell Group, a partner in both projects, raised hopes that the two projects could be developed together and questioned the expansion of the North West Shelf on a stand-alone basis.
Cor Herkstroter, chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell Group's committee of managing directors, then told Reuters in an interview that expansion of the North West Shelf could not be justified without integrating it with another project and that the development of both projects was a viable option.
Royal Dutch/Shell also owns 34 percent of Woodside.
Woodside, the North West Shelf project operator, said the expansion plan was submitted to the project's eight Japanese power and gas utility customers at a meeting in Osaka this week.
LNG is mainly used for fuelling power stations.
"It is a significant step for the expansion of the North West Shelf project," Wedgwood said. The partners have spent A$12 billion on the project since it started in the early 1980s.
Woodside is an equal 16.66 percent shareholder in the project along with some of the world's major oil producers.
The Osaka meeting followed indications from buyers in June of their interest in an expansion of the project, said Woodside.
However, work on the expansion would not start for another two years at least, Wedgwood said.
"The next thing that is likely to be a letter of intent in late 1997 for the development of this expansion proposal," Wedgwood said. He said between now and then there were lots of talks on technical issues surrounding the expansion proposal.
"Following that, would be a purchase agreement between the North West shelf partners and the Japanese buyers, which would be around late 1998," Wedgwood said.
Only after this agreement would work start on the expansion.
The other partners in the North West Shelf are Australia's The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Plc, Chevron Inc of the United States, and Japanese groups Mitsui &amp; Co Ltd and Mitsubishi Corp.
Royal Dutch/Shell and Chevron are also partners in Gorgon along with U.S. oil giants Texaco Inc and Mobil Corp.
(A$1 = $0.79)
Casualties are starting to mount as Chinese buyers of soybeans and soybean meal default or cancel contracts in the wake of falling international prices, Asian trading sources said on Thursday.
"We have stopped doing Chinese business for now," said a trader in Hong Kong with a major international house.
"We're waiting for the market to stabilise and are staying away from the possibility of defaults," he said.
Traders in Hong Kong, Singapore and China reported hearing of Chinese soymeal buyers delaying finance arrangements for orders in an attempt to force sellers to lower their prices.
Another Hong Kong source reported that Chinese buyers had defaulted on three to four cargoes, each of 50,000 tonnes, since last week when international prices began to fall.
"They are defaulting because PRC buyers delayed opening LCs (letters of credit) in the hope of squeezing another two or three dollars from their sellers," he said.
Traders have said these tactics are next to useless as physical soymeal for prompt delivery is tight, and would command a premium that would wipe out any extra profit.
Since entering the international trading arena earlier this decade, Chinese traders have earned themselves a reputation for dubious practices when it comes to paying for their orders.
In some cases, traders have reported, a Chinese buyer will default on or cancel an order for a commodity if the price falls after the order is placed and before it is delivered.
The Chinese company will then attempt to replace the commodity at the cheaper rate.
As a result, when prices of a commodity that is a hot item in China begin to fall, some international traders simply exit the market.
Others insist on deposits, and others grade Chinese traders according to their record of paying up and charge higher premiums accordingly.
Soybean meal has been the hot Chinese commodity of 1996, traders said, with arrivals from South America around 1.2 million tonnes since February.
Traders said maximum Chinese orders of U.S. meal in the past two weeks were 300,000 tonnes.
One trader claiming to have done 400,000 tonnes of beans and meal business in the past two weeks said he had letters of credit from his buyers for 350,000 tonnes.
His sales would show up in U.S. Department of Agriculture figures this week, he said.
The price of soybean meal on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) has been on a rollercoaster ride since late September, and initially dipped while China was on holiday from September 30 to October 3 celebrating National Day.
On October 4, Chinese buyers scooped up more than 600,000 tonnes of beans and meal, mostly of U.S. origin, some South American, paying $300 to $310 a tonne, traders said.
But last Friday, prices started to fall again, by Tuesday coming off another $10 or so a tonne -- and word of Chinese cancellations and defaults began to circle.
Reports from Chicago on Wednesday described the market as perplexed over rumours China had bought or cancelled export orders for U.S. and Latin American soybeans and soymeal.
CBOT October soymeal closed at $236.30 a tonne, after Tuesday's $235.30.
Britain's Tim Henman emerged on Friday as the only seed in the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open semifinals.
Seventh-ranked Henman overcame second seed Wayne Ferreira 6-4 6-3.
But fifth seed Todd Martin was edged out by Germany's David Prinosil 7-6 7-6 and sixth seed Michael Stich lost to Czech Martin Damm 5-7 6-4 6-4.
Czech Petr Korda completed the final four with his 6-1 6-0 demolition of Davis Cup team mate Jiri Novak and now faces another Davis Cup player in Damm. Henman plays Prinosil in Saturday's other semifinal.
Reigning Ostrava champion Ferreira, ranked seventh in the world, never looked comfortable against Henman, the more aggressive of the two for most of the match.
He failed to gain a single break point all match while the Briton broke serve late in both sets.
Henman's win avenged his loss to the South African in Toronto earlier this year, and he said he had taken notes from that match on to court on Friday.
"In Toronto, Ferreira was dictating the points -- serving very well and hitting forehands very well -- so today I tried to be very aggressive and, when I had an opportunity, move forward," said Henman, ranked 26 in the world.
Local favourite Damm, a finalist at the Beijing Open last week, spoiled Stich's 28th birthday. After losing the first set the Czech scored crucial breaks in the ninth game of the final two sets.
For Martin, defeat was especially painful as he could have gained valuable ground on Ferreira in the race for the final spot at the ATP Tour championship in Hanover at the end of the season.
The American currently sits 199 points behind the South African. A semifinal berth would have eaten 37 points out of that lead while a place in the finals would have almost halved Ferreira's advantage.
Prinosil, ranked 58th in the world, profited from a Martin double fault at 5-5 in the first set tiebreak and took a 4-0 lead in the second set tiebreak on the way to sealing victory.
Martin said: "I realise I didn't help my cause at all but we've got two of the biggest tournaments coming up and I think whoever does really well in those events should probably play themselves into a position at Hanover."
Martin, Stich and Ferreira both appear next week in Stuttgart, where the winner gains 370 Tour points, 200 more than the winner here.
The German tournament's organisers said on Friday they expect Boris Becker will be fit to play, despite a wrist injury which forced him to retire here.
In a move to accommodate Becker, his first round match has been put back to Wednesday.
McDonald's Corp said its new restaurant openings for 1996 and 1997 likely will be at the low-end of its targeted range of 2,500 to 3,200 units.
"We will hit the low end of our projected range (with) 2,500-plus restaurants (in 1996)," McDonald's spokesman Chuck Ebeling told Reuters. "We're just doing our planning for next year, but we expect to do 2,500 plus next year."
This would be the first time in at least three years that McDonald's failed to beat its expansion projections, as it cuts back on limited menu -- or satellite -- units.  
In 1995, McDonald's opened 2,430 units, beating the projection for that year of 2,300. In 1994, it opened 1,800 units, beating the projection of about 1,400 to 1,700.
McDonald's has nearly 20,000 restaurants worldwide.
"We've been ratcheting up the level of development every year since around 1991," Ebeling said.
Ebeling said McDonald's this year plans to open about "600-plus" satellite units worldwide, down from its original plan of 700 to 1,000 satellites. The biggest decline will be seen in the United States.  
"We recognize we need higher volume restaurants to meet the kind of profitability that we'd like for ourselves and our franchisees," Ebeling said.
Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Oakes said the profitability of some satellite units, which are often built in non-traditional sites such as shopping malls, has been uncertain. "In the big picture, the financial performance of satellites appears to be spotty," Oakes said.
Ebeling said U.S. satellite units will account for about one-third of the total for these smaller sites, down from 60 percent as originally planned.  
Overall, Ebeling said about one-third of McDonald's restaurant openings will still be in the United States.
Bear, Stearns analyst Joseph Buckley added he would not be surprised to see McDonald's shift its restaurant opening strategy to further emphasize the international market.
McDonald's said operating income outside the United States contributed 59 percent to consolidated income for the quarter.
Earlier, McDonald's reported third quarter income of $0.62 a share, $0.01 below the consensus estimate, but above the $0.56 it earned last year.
McDonald's said its U.S. operating income was down five percent in the quarter, which it blamed partly on an intensely competitive operating environment.
Same-store sales in the United States, measuring results for units open for at least one year, were negative in the third quarter and for the first nine months of the year.
But U.S sales may be picking up, Oakes added.
"I think (U.S. same-store sales) are starting to hit bottom," Oakes said. "Thus far in October, it (seems) like they have picked up and are in the flattish range."
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Amidst a wave of consolidation, U.S. hospital management and nursing home companies are expected to post mixed results in the third quarter.
Big hospital companies, despite cost and competitive pressures, are beating up on non-profits and posting fat profit margins. The average gain expected from the top five firms is 17.6 percent, based on First Call estimates.
"I haven't noticed deterioration in margins in these companies because they're grabbing market share, controlling costs and being efficient," said Wheat First analyst Joel Ray.  
The hospital business was shaken Thursday by the proposed $1.8-billion merger of Tenet HealthCare and OrNda HealthCorp, which combined will be second-largest in the field behind giant Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.
The nursing home industry was jolted Thursday when Integrated Health Services Inc said it acquired First American Health Care of Georgia, the largest privately held U.S. home healthcare company.
The volatile nursing home and post-acute care market is less concentrated than the hospital business and the third quarter profit picture is more mixed, analysts said.  
"Results are going to be coming in all over the board," said Alex. Brown &amp; Sons analyst Jean Swenson.
Big profit gainers on the quarter look to be Vencor and Genesis Health Ventures, with weak results forecast for Beverly Enterprises and Horizon/CMS Healthcare, analysts said.
Challenges facing both the labor-intensive hospital and nursing home businesses include upward wage pressure due to record-low unemployment levels, as well as ongoing debates in Washington over the future of Medicare and its reimbursement rates for certain contract therapy services, analysts said.
U.S. FIRST CALL CONSENSUS QTRLY EARNINGS FORECASTS
Company			    Qtr  EPS estimate  Yr-ago EPS
Beverly Enterprises	    Q3     $0.22	   $0.23
Columbia/HCA Healthcare	Q3     $0.70	   $0.61
Genesis Health Ventures	Q4     $0.39	   $0.31
Health Management		Q4     $0.17	   $0.14
Horizon/CMS Healthcare	 Q2     $0.26	   $0.27
Manor Care			 Q2     $0.53	   $0.46
OrNda Healthcorp		 Q4     $0.39	   $0.33
Vencor Inc			 Q3     $0.47	   $0.38
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Lear Corp., furthering its quest to supply complete car interiors, said Friday it agreed to buy the instrument panel and trim parts unit of Denmark-based Borealis Holding AB.
Lear said it signed a memorandum of understanding to acquire Borealis Industrier AB for undisclosed terms.
Based in Gothenburg, Sweden, Borealis Industrier manufacturers instrument panels, door panels, climate systems, exterior trim and various other components for the European car and truck industry.
Borealis Industrier had 1995 sales of about $230 million and owns five plants in Sweden that employ about 1,800 people.
Primary customers for the business include Swedish carmakers AB Volvo and Saab Automobile AB and truckmaker Scania AB.
Borealis Holding is owned by Finnish state-controlled oil and energy group Neste Oy  and Norwegian state-owned oil group Statoil AS.
Completion of the transaction is subject to approval by the Swedish competition authority and other conditions.
Lear said the acquisition supports its strategy of having in-house capability to provide total automotive interior systems, including instrument panels.
"Not only does this acquisition strengthen relations with our European customers, but it positions Lear as the only independent automotive supplier in the world with in-house capabilities in all five interior systems -- broadening the appeal of our already strong one-stop-shopping competitive advantage," Lear Chairman Kenneth Way said in a statement.
The deal is the latest of a series of consolidation moves in the automotive interior market. Lear earlier this year purchased carpet and floor-mat maker Masland Corp. for $384 million, and last year bought door panel and console maker Automotive Industries Inc for $626 million.
Lear's U.S. operations include the manufacturing of a wide range of automotive interior components.
The company's stock was unchanged Friday at $38 a share on the New York Stock Exchange.
Lear's competitors are also pursuing the same acquisition strategy.
Johnson Controls Inc., which has a strong seating business, recently acquired interior parts maker Prince Automotive, based in Holland Mich., for $1.35 billion in cash.
Canada's Magna International Inc., one of the "Big Three" automotive interior firms along with Lear and Johnson Controls, recently acquired seat maker Douglas &amp; Lomason Co. for $135 million.
Britain's decision to take legal action to ban Resale Price Maintenance (RPM) on non-prescription medicines is likely to boost competition and could benefit some stores in terms of market share, analysts said on Friday.
"Anything that actually causes prices to fall is not good news (for retailers), but for those wanting to increase market share it will mean more people coming through the stores," said one share analyst who asked not to be identified.
Office of Fair Trading head John Bridgeman said in a statement earlier that he would seek to remove RPM from over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, because "there are good reasons for believing that it is time to end price-fixing."
RPM allows manufacturers to set minimum levels for sale of certain over-the-counter medicines. The Community Pharmacy Action Group, which lobbies on behalf of pharmacies, said its removal could mean the closure of one in four local outlets.
The OFT's request goes to the Restrictive Practices Court which is unlikely to be able to consider the issue before late 1997, Bridgeman told a press conference.
Retailers therefore did not appear to be about to start an immediate round of price cuts.
Chemist and beauty products store chain Boots said it was disappointed at the decision and believed that RPM "operates in the public interest."
Boots has not reduced prices of such medicines during a long-running inquiry into price-fixing and industry sources said it was unlikely to take that route in the near future.
UniChem, a pharmaceuticals wholesaler and retailer, said removal of RPM would be "immaterial to...profitability," while Superdrug, the high street chemist chain owned by Kingfisher, welcomed the move but ruled out immediate price cuts.
Supermarket retailer ASDA, which has led the campaign over the last year to have RPM removed after successfully lobbying for it to be withdrawn from books, also welcomed the OFT's decision, saying it could save consumers 300 million pounds ($476 million) on everday healthcare products.
But it said its stance on prices would not change.
"RPM is still in place, we are still in the same situation we were in yesterday and we will still be in it tomorrow," a spokesman said.
ASDA is currently refusing to sell Anadin Paracetamol, a painkiller produced by Whitehall Laboratories, and large packs of indigestion treatment Alka Seltzer, after it baulked at manufacturers' price increases.
It has launched a range of some 40 own-brand OTC medicines and vitamins selling for as little as half the price of branded equivalents, and says they have helped it extend market share.
Also on Friday, ASDA said it was launching an initiative to help support local pharmacies, shops which chief executive Allan Leighton told BBC television he had no wish to see put out of business.
Share analysts said that removal of RPM on non-prescription medicines could see specialists such as Boots increasing market share, reflecting events after RPM was taken off books when specialist retailer W H Smith increased market share.
"Smiths got stronger, increasing market share through promotions and using muscle with suppliers. I expect the same will happen to Boots - it'll get bigger and stronger," said Nick Bubb of MeesPierson.
Boots shares dipped on the news and stood at 638-1/2p, down 5p, by 1440 GMT. ASDA was up a penny to 114-1/2 pence while Kingfisher was down 1-1/2 pence at 654 pence. ($1=.6298 Pound)
British building group AMEC Plc said on Friday it was exploring a possible investment in France's Spie Batignolle's electrical and construction businesses with the aim of widening its international exposure.
AMEC said it had been in talks with Spie management about taking an unquantified minority stake which could be raised to a majority stake from the current parent group Schneider SA.
If clinched, the deal would create a major European player with around five billion pounds ($7.9 billion) in sales, with 40 percent exposure in Britain, 30 percent in France and the rest worldwide.
Peter Mason, AMEC's chief executive, told Reuters: "One important concept is that there is little overlap between the two groups."
He admitted that AMEC's possible greater exposure to France came as the market was suffering from very tough conditions but he said that AMEC was "buying at the bottom, not at the top" and foresaw a turnaround.
The new deal could act as a springboard for AMEC into new markets including oil and gas and pharmaceuticals and new regions including Indonesia, Latin America and South Africa, Mason said.
At present 70 percent of its sales are in Britain.
Mason told Reuters that the two parties were at the due diligence stage and expected more details by November, with completion in December.
The initial stake will be funded from AMEC's existing cash reserves and will give it access to Spie's international network of regional bases offering partnership opportunities on a cost-efficient basis.
The decision to raise the stake to a majority holding would be taken in "a number of years' time and I'm not talking one or two years".
AMEC and Spie management envisage a possible flotation of the French operation.
"There will be negotiations between the management and us on how much we will retain and what to float. It will also depend on the state of the (stock) market at the time," the AMEC chief said.
"I have been most impressed with Spie's management team and the progress they have made in revitalising Spie," he added.
Spie has 28,000 employees and operates in 290 locations. In its 1995 results after restructuring it reported turnover of 17 billion francs ($3.26 billion) and an operating profit of 34 million francs. ($1=.6298 Pound) ($1=5.211 French Franc)
UK building bosses and health insiders have warned of dying confidence in privately financed health projects, unless there is rapid acceleration in the number of contracts awarded in the next few months.
This industry crisis of confidence comes ahead of Monday's annual Private Finance Panel conference on Monday, which will be addressed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke and health secretary Stephen Dorrell.  
This week the government provided a glimmer of hope, however, giving the go-ahead to a 280 million pounds east London hospital project won by a venture led by AMEC Plc.
But of all the problems in the Conservative government's flagship private finance initiative (PFI) -- aimed at attracting private sector cash for public infrastructure projects -- health has proved to be the biggest headache of all.
The Treasury set Health Secretary Stephen Dorrell a target of 500 million pounds of projects by April.  
The likelihood of that target being reached looked slim until this week, when the government sought to temporarily silence its critics with its announcement of the first major private finance health project -- the east London hospital.
Before that, building firms and National Health Service (NHS) leaders had been apportioning blame for delays on each other and the government as it tried to referee both sides.
British junior health minister John Horam defended his department's record in a recent interview with Reuters.  
"We are confident of getting 500 million pounds by April. If we are able to bring in a 170 million project and a 30 million one in the next few months then we are almost there," he said.
But some construction industry leaders remain downbeat, privately hinting the biggest players in the business will shun future projects for fear of tying up further millions in a sector which is taking too long to deliver the goods.
"I've heard that around 20 companies are not going to go forward with new bids," one industry leader said.
Also, some leading National Health Service (NHS) figures have questioned the value of the policy itself.  
Gordon Best, a leading adviser to chief executives of NHS Trusts told Reuters the policy was "a dead duck" in health and said the government would have to push one or two schemes through just to "save face." He said PFI had resulted in projects which the NHS could not afford and failed its needs.
Another construction industry leader summed up the crisis of confidence among builders: "Companies are frustrated with the whole negotiating approach -- I wouldn't say it should be abandoned but the whole process needs radical surgery."
Graham Watts, chief executive of the Construction Industry Council was also pessimistic.  
"The big companies have basically had enough. They've spent a lot of money so far and there is resentment that they're being used to pioneer a system which is not working at a time when an industry is still locked in recession."
PFI has been very slow getting off the ground, both due to red tape and having the Treasury as an "out-of-the-room negotiator' for many of the projects, industry sources said.
Business has been feeding through in other sectors like roads and prisons, but health has proved slow to take off.  
One positive factor is that PFI does have the backing of the opposition Labour Party, so industry figures are talking to Labour about their problems. A general election is due by May 1997, with Labour currently leading in opinion polls.
In the meantime, the health sector problems remain. Another issue dogging confidence in the building sector is the fear that building firms could be saddled with liabilities if an NHS Trust defaults on repayments over the 30-year term.
But minister Horam told Reuters the government had changed the law to underwrite that risk. "This is one reason why these projects have taken so long. We got Royal Assent on this in June and it makes that commitment inescapable."
He dimissed claims of disillusion: "The big boys are competing in PFI. No single project has been left without a bidder."
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
AMEC Plc, the British building group, said late on Friday that expected to issue details of its possible investment in France's Spie Batignolle by November, predicting it would be wrapped up by the end of the year.
Peter Mason, chief executive, said an envisaged initial stake would probably be followed by a decision to take on a larger controlling share "in a number of years time, and I'm not talking one or two years."
Spie Batignolles is a currently a unit of holding company Schneider SA.  
That would be followed by a decision on whether to float part of it off. The amount to be floated would depend on various factors, he said.
"There will be negotiations between the management and us on how much we will retain and what to float. It will also depend on the state of the (stock) market at the time," said AMEC's chief executive.
He said the deal had been under discussion for some months and represented a good fit. An eventual combined group would have 5.0 billion stg of sales and give AMEC access to key new markets in areas like oil and gas and pharmaceuticals.  
It will also act as a springboard for AMEC into new regions, notably Indonesia, South America and South Africa.
"At present 70 percent of our business is in the UK," said Mason. But the new deal will mean that the combined group has 40 percent U.K. exposure, 30 percent French exposure with the remainder in world sales.
"One important concept is that there is little overlap between the two groups," Mason added.
He admitted that the greater exposure to France came as the market was suffering from very tough conditions, but he said that AMEC was "buying at the bottom, not at the top."
The deal is currently at due diligence stage.
--London newsroom +44 171 5427717
Second seed Wayne Ferreira and fifth seed Todd Martin both went down to straight set defeats in the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open quarterfinals on Friday.
In the day's opening match, Ferreira lost 6-4 6-3 to Britain's Tim Henman, seeded seventh in the tournament, while Martin was edged out by Germany's David Prinosil 7-6 7-6.
Ferreira, ranked seventh in the world, never looked comfortable against Henman, who was the aggressor for most of the match.
The 22 year-old Brit avenged his loss to Ferreira in the round of 16 in Toronto earlier this year, and said he took notes from that match onto the court on Friday.
Henman managed to break Ferreira late in both sets, while the South African failed to gain a single break point in the macth.
"In Toronto Ferreira was dictating the points, serving very well and hitting forehands very well so today I tried to be very aggressive and when I had an opportunity, move forward," said Henman, ranked 26th in the world.
For Martin, the loss was especially painful since he could have gained valuable ground on Ferreira in the race for the final spot at the ATP Tour Championships in Hannover at the end of the season.
The American currently sits 199 points behind the South African, and a semifinal berth would have eaten 37 points out of the lead, while a place in the finals would have cut Ferreira's advantage by almost half.
Prinosil, ranked 58th in the world, took advantage of a Martin double fault at 5-5 in the first set tiebreak, and then jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the second set tiebreak, a hole the American could not pull himself out of.
"I realise I didn't help my cause by at all, but we've got two of the biggest tournaments coming up and I think whoever does really well in those events should probably play themselves into a position at Hannover," Martin said.
Martin was helped this week by Boris Becker's recurring wrist injury which forced him out of the Ostrava tournament after the first round.
All three players will compete next week at Stutgart, where the winner will receive 370 tour points, more than double the 170 points to be awarded to the winner at Ostrava.
Bitter infighting broke out among Czech Social Democrats on Friday only a month before elections in which the opposition party hopes to humiliate conservative Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
Party chairman Milos Zeman denied there was any split in his party, which is running neck and neck with Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS) before Senate elections next month.
But almost in the same breath he threatened to resign next spring unless a party deputy chairman who broke ranks to vote with the Klaus government last week went first.
Adding to his woes, a Social Democrat deputy threatened to leave the parliamentary party in a row with an ex-communist colleague, a move which could tip the balance of parliamentary power between the minority government and opposition.
Klaus, whose three-party coalition lost its parliamentary majority in lower house elections earlier this year, has seemed under heavy pressure with opinion polls showing the Social Democrats level or slightly ahead of his ODS.
But just as the Social Democrats seemed in with a good chance of beating the ODS for the first time since the restoration of democracy, strife flared in opposition ranks.
Last week Jozef Wagner, the chairman of the parliamentary budget committee, led a revolt by four Social Democrat deputies which allowed the 1997 state budget to pass its first reading.
Tempers flared on Friday after Wagner threatened to resign from the parliamentary party unless another Social Democrat deputy, ex-communist Michal Kraus, quit the budget committee and a parliamentary commission investigating a bank collapse.
Despite the appearance of disarray in Social Democrat ranks, Zeman played down Wagner's threat. "There is no real split. I do not want to overestimate the importance of his proclamation in this case," he told a news conference.
"A split would happen only if a body of opinion formed which was sharply different in questions of principle from the opinion of the party leadership," he said.
But then he attacked party deputy chairman Karel Machovec, one of the Wagner rebels. "There should not be a person in the leadership who shows himself up by talking about disputes in the party," said Zeman.
Asked if he would resign if Machovec remained vice chairman after a party congress scheduled for next March, Zeman said: "Yes. It is true, I can confirm that."
Kraus, a communist deputy before the 1989 collapse of the East Bloc, accused the four budget rebels of being "corrupted politically" by the Klaus coalition.
Wagner told the daily Mlada Fronta Dnes he would leave the Social Democratic parliamentary party or "club" if Kraus did not go. Machovec was quoted by local media as saying that if Wagner left, there would be a serious party split.
This could change the balance of power in the 200-seat lower house where the Social Democrats, along with the little-reformed Communists and the far-right Republicans, have 101 votes to the government's 99.
The Senate itself has few powers. But the elections on November 15 and 16, with a second round runoff a week later, have become a test of public opinion which could indicate whether early lower house elections are likely.
Analysts say that if the Social Democrats perform strongly, Zeman might be tempted to bring down the coalition to force lower house polls in which his party might overtake Klaus's ODS. But that depends on Zeman being able to maintain discipline.
So far voters do not seem concerned. A poll taken by the STEM agency before and after the budget vote showed the Social Democrats with 27.3 percent support ahead of ODS with 26.8.
In the lower house elections on May 31-June 1, ODS won 29.6 percent and the Social Democrats 26.4.
The director-general of the BBC called on Friday for an increase in the British television licence fee to protect what he said was "the most successful cultural institution in the world".
Speaking at the Edinburgh International Television Festival, John Birt said the fee -- payable by all television set owners -- had fallen in real terms over the past decade and described the recent financial history of the BBC as "miraculous".
He said an increase was needed to help fund new services as digital technology multiplies the number of channels available.
"The BBC is the most successful cultural institution in the world, one of the great inventions of the 20th century. But it can no longer be taken for granted," Birt said.
"If it (the BBC) is to innovate with high-quality services in the new technologies as it has done again and again ... then at some point in the future -- and for the first time since 1985 -- we shall need a real increase in the licence fee."
A colour television licence costs 89.50 pounds ($139.10) annually. Licence income totals around 1.8 billion pounds each year -- 95 percent of BBC income. The money funds the BBC's five national radio stations as well as its two television channels.
Sources at the BBC said it wanted a modest rise in "low single (percentage) figures over time". The BBC will shortly begin talks with the government to review the licence fee -- currently pegged to inflation.
Any price increase would take effect from April 1, 1997. A general election is due in Britain by next May and the government might be reluctant to saddle viewers with a higher licence fee shortly before it went to the polls.
Birt said the BBC was now towards the bottom of the European licence fee league table. He added that a top-rate subscription to satellite broadcaster BSkyB, the dominant force in British pay television, costs 300 pounds annually.
The BBC says it has achieved cost savings of 100 million pounds in each of the past three years and aims to build on its commercial success as Europe's biggest broadcasting exporter.
But Birt said more licence money was vital.
Digital technology -- which will allow the creation of hundreds of new channels and interactive services such as home shopping -- is set to reach Britain next year.
BSkyB is planning to launch digital satellite services in late 1997 and a terrestrial version is expected to follow within a further 12 months.
The BBC is planning to offer licence-fee payers supplementary programming and a 24-hour news service as it moves into the digital era.
"It (digital) will mean upholding our national role -- and opening new doors wherever we can for licence fee payers," Birt added.
($1=.6436 Pound)
Colombia's main oil workers' union, known for its fiercely nationalistic stance and opposition to multinationals, will merge with smaller labor organizations to form an industry-wide front, its leader Hernando Hernandez said on Friday.
The 5,700-strong USO union, which currently only represents workers of the state oil company Ecopetrol, will approve the decision in a general assembly on Monday in a move that Hernandez believes could eventually pave the way to a 40,000-member "super- union".  
Foreign oil companies fear the move will give the USO a foothold in their fields, mostly operated by non-unionized workers, and that the union will sour labor relations with its aggressive, left-wing stance. They also accuse the USO of ties with leftist guerrilla movements, which frequently target the oil industry -- a charge union leaders deny.  
"This merger will help us maintain union solidarity in the face of detrimental government policies and enable us to present a single platform," Hernandez said. "This will put us in a better position to defend the future of our natural resources....
At Monday's meeting in the oil production center Barrancabermeja, the USO will approve a merger with the Association of Oil Industry Workers (ASOPETROL), which has a small but established presence in a number of multinational oil companies.  
SINTRAOXY, made up of U.S. multinational Occidental Petroleum workers, also seems set to heed the merger call.
Hernandez said the immediate effect would be the creation of a 10,000-strong organization, adding that non-unionized oil companies would be targeted in a drive to create a union 40,000 members to represent the entire industry.
This week the USO flexed its muscles and paralyzed the country's two main oil pipelines for the first time ever.  
The 24-hour strike was to combat government plans to restructure Ecopetrol, which USO fears will lead to the company's eventual privatization, and to protest against British Petroleum's demands to renegotiate an association contract with the state oil company.
A foreign oil company senior representative, who did not wish to be named, described USO's merger plans as an USO ploy to regain control after seeing its influence progressively eroded by the entry of multinationals into exploration and production.
"The merger will complicate relations with our labor force and the prospect of having to deal with a belligerent labor union with close ties to the guerrilla movements is far from stimulating," the representative said.
Hector Penuela, head of ASOPETROL, confirmed the imminent merger with USO.
A Labor Ministry spokesman said there was no bar on the merger but said those unions involved would have to formally inform the ministry to gain legal recognition.
China said on Friday that sexual contact was the leading cause of AIDS and warned that venereal disease could be a springboard for an AIDS epidemic.
"China should take immediate steps to curb the epidemic of STDs (sexually transmitted diseases) because their incidence rate is rising in the country," the official Xinhua news agency quoted health experts as saying.
"Sexual contact is now the leading cause of HIV infection," the agency said. AIDS, or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, is caused by infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
The number of reported cases of eight major sexually transmitted diseases diseases, including AIDS, gonorrhea and syphilis, had risen to 362,000 last year and officials forecast that figure could rocket to more than 800,000 by 2000, it said.
"We should give first priority to STD control in the battle against AIDS, because STDs are a springboard for an HIV/AIDS epidemic," Xinhua quoted Minister of Public Health Chen Minzhang as telling a national conference on the disease in Beijing.
"In line with the increase of STDs, the occurrence of HIV infection will be more frequent," Xinhua quoted Ye Shunzhang, director of the National Venereal Disease Control Centre, as telling the conference, which closed on Thursday.
Official figures show China has 4,305 people infected with HIV, up from 3,341 at the end of 1995, but experts say up to 100,000 could be infected.
"China could see its number of HIV cases spinning out of control if prompt, preventive measures are not taken," Xinhua said.
China would open hundreds of screening stations as part of a plan to set up a national AIDS monitoring network to supply accurate and fast data on the spread of the disease, it said.
Health authorities would open between 300 and 400 HIV monitoring centres by 2000 and set up a national laboratory to lead the country's battle against the disease.
Prostitution and narcotics abuse have both boomed in recent years as freewheeling economic reforms weaken puritan Marxist values.
This is Reuters' 2nd ex-Hong Kong air cargo market report.
It will be published regulary until a new version is published at a later date.
HONG KONG, Oct 17 - (Reuter) Current average ex-Hong Kong air cargo market rates in Hong Kong dollars per kg for a 100kg shipment, with volume-to-weight of six to one.
						Oct 17	     Sept 30
				EUROPE
HK-LHR					22.25		20.85
HK-FRA					22.40		21.09
				USA
HK-JFK					20.70		20.50
HK-LAX					21.05		20.95
				MIDDLE EAST
HK-DXB					15.80	     15.18
				ASIA PACIFIC
HK-SIN					 9.10		9.06
HK-TAIPEI				    4.10		3.90
HK-TOKYO				    30.70	     30.50
* The rates in this report were obtained by Reuters journalists on a confidential basis from a range of airlines, large forwarders and smaller cargo agents.
* All prices were quoted in Hong Kong dollars.
* The tariffs represent average calculated from a range of prices and are indicative of current market acitivity.  
Demand for space has eased slightly as a recent backlog is cleared and some airlines provide extra capacity, but key ex-Hong Kong rates have continued to rise, Reuters research shows.
Airlines and freight forwarders report brisk business as the territory's traditional peak season gathers pace and high demand for space has allowed airlines on European routes to again raise rates for the second time within three weeks.
A rise of 50 HK cents a kg on October 16 follows a HK$2 a kg rise imposed on October 1 on key routes to Europe. Transpacific demand is also said to be especially strong allowing rates to firm slightly.
Pressure for cargo space is also being exacerbated by high demand on passenger flights which is reducing bellyhold capacity for many airlines.
Sam Chung, the chairman of the Hong Kong Association of Freight Forwarding Agents and director and general manager of Fritz Air Freight (HK) Ltd, said the market was very strong especially in his company's main sector, the United States.
"Every single flight is full but space should become a little better because some airlines are putting on extra capacity. In early October there was a backlog everywhere but that is now easing," Chung said.
He also highlighted the HK$2 a kilo rate rise on routes to Europe from October 1 with more "unfair rises" due to bite.
Two U.S. airlines have drafted in extra aircraft to cope with heavy trans-Pacific demand.
Polar Air Cargo is employing two additional Boeing 747 freighters between the territory and Chicago and New York.
"At the start of October it was really busy with a lot of airlines having a backlog in Hong Kong, Japan and Taiwan. But right after China's national day and the mid-Autumn festival when a lot of factories closed down it gave us the chance to move a lot of cargo out of Hong Kong and gave us the chance to clear the backlog," said David Sung, Polar Air's Hong Kong sales manager.
More extra capacity on the trans-Pacific route has come from Evergreen International Airlines Inc which says it now offers six Boeing 747 flights a week instead of four previously. The additional flights on Mondays are to Columbus,Ohio then onto New York and Los Angeles.
"All flights are absolutely full and if we had additional flights. into Hong Kong we would have no problem filling them because there is a lot of freight being moved and a backlog is building up," said Evergreen's Vice President Kersti Krepp
There is also extra capacity being drafted onto a main European route. Lufthansa Cargo AG says it will put an additional freighter on the Hong Kong to Frankfurt route before the end of the month because of high demand.
The extra flight will increase the total number of flights Lufthansa operates to Germany in a joint venture with Cathay Pacific Cargo to 11 per week. September also saw an additional freighter being drafted onto the route increasing the number of joint freighter from nine a week during July and August to 10 now.
British Airways World Cargo ,which has three freighter flights per week between Hong Kong and London Gatwick wet-leased from Atlas Air, in addition to belly cargo space on its twice daily passenger flights to Heathrow, also reports a very strong market.
"This is the peak of the year and we have been very strong and are very pleased with our performance. Every available metre of space is full and we think that will carry on for the forseeable future," said Chris Humphrey, British Airways s regional cargo manager Pacific who is based in Hong Kong.
He said rates to Europe have increased to reflect the strength of the market and thinks another rate rise is justified.
"Fuel prices have gone through the roof. Yields are again at the same level they were last year but underlying costs are increasing, particularly fuel," complained Humphrey.
Mark Wilson, Managing Director of freight forwarders Benair Freight also said pressure for space has recently eased as a backlog is cleared.
"Space is tight but available which proves that the airlines are working together and not discounting too much. Rates have stayed firm and the airlines are trying to keep rates up," he said.
He said rates to Europe have recently increased by around 20 per cent and by 15 per cent to the U.S. Inter-Asian rates are stable where yields are traditionally stronger.
Stanley Hui, the chief operating officer of the territory's only all cargo airline AHK Air Hong Ltd, which flies 747 freighters both east and westbound, said he had no complaints especially about the trans-pacific sector.
"Unlike in previous years, there has not been that much additional capacity employed during the peak period. Demand both in and out of Europe is also firm and services to Japan are busy. After last year's record year and a slow start to this year we have high expectations about Japan," Hui said
The latest statistics from Hong Kong's Civil Aviation department show Tokyo-Narita to be the biggest importer of Hong Kong goods. 8,742 tonnes of air cargo was flown from Hong Kong to the Japanese capital during August, according to the statistics.
Hui also said he expected rates to Europe to continue to rise.
"We are not trying to be greedy but we can't lose money forever and all cargo airlines are trying to recover what we have lost," Hui said.
Many airlines report being especially badly hit by Hong Kong's seasonal monsoon winds. Northerly winds mean aircraft have to take off in a steep climb over densely populated Kowloon and payload has to be reduced.
Air France Cargo said all carriers were being affected on both European and trans-Pacific long haul routes by having to suddenly off-load pallets and a backlog of more than 400 tonnes built up in early October.
"Everybody is being hit by these weather conditions and customers are unhappy about having their cargo left behind - but so are we. It is the first time I've ever known so much having to be offloaded," said Philippe Bour, the airline's regional cargo manager for Hong Kong, China, Macau, Taiwan and South Korea.
Paul Choi, assistant general manager of MSAS Cargo International in Hong Kong said the back log has now eased, partly due to more cargo being flown from Macau.
Gemini Air Cargo flew its first McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30 freighter into the Portuguese enclave from New York on September 27 with about 40 tonnes of cargo mostly destined to be shipped to Hong Kong. The airport which opened last November says Gemini is the fourth all cargo service to serve Macau on a regular basis and unlike Hong Kong has no severe space and slot restrictions or curfew.
Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Ltd (HACTL), which enjoys a monopoly on cargo handling at Kai Tak airport said after a "pretty lack lustre" first half the market has picked up during August and September which should continue in the traditional peak period towards Christmas.
HACTL reported a 7.1 per cent increase in throughput during September over last year whnn exports and imports rose by 5.5 per cent to 68,673 tonnes and 7.3 per cent to 49,063 tonnes respectively over September last year.
HACTL managing director Anthony Charter said transshipments "soared" 13.7 per cent to 16,775 tonnes "which interestingly may point to sign of a regional pick-up."
"There seems to be a shortage of capacity which is traditional at this time of year along with the hike in rates. I think this year we are seeing a slightly more positive outloook," Charter said.
HACTL says it is on course for another record year and expects a rise of around four per cent which is a far cry from the 23 per cent growth in previous years but "still welcome." - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017
British Airways said it will be able to carry an extra 70 tonnes of air cargo a week when its twice-daily passenger services between Hong Kong and London begin a new, shorter route over China later this month.
Chris Humphrey, BA's regional cargo manager Pacific said the new northern route over Chinese air space will mean shorter journey times for BA's Boeing 747-400 aircraft which won't need to carry as much fuel enabling the cargo payload to be increased by five to six tonnes per flight on average.
He said the new routing was negotiated during recent talks between the Chinese and British governments and also benefits BA's rivals on the route, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd and Virgin Atlantic. Both Cathay Pacific and Virgin Atlantic said they are also due to start the new shorter route on October 27.
"The new routing via Urumqi in China will be a real benefit to us with the start of our winter schedule on October the 27th. It means a shorter distance, less fuel and more cargo. With the extra capacity it will generate of around 70 tonnes a week which is very close to getting another 747 freighter on the route," Humphrey said.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
China must make real changes to its economy if it wants to join the World Trade Organisation and should replace anti-U.S. rhetoric with international cooperation, a leading U.S. businessman said on Friday.
Beijing should take growing dissatisfaction among foreign investors seriously, said James McGregor, chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China. A recent crackdown on dissidents could only harm vital ties with Washington, he said.
"China is always telling foreign investors that we must show sincerity in our business dealings in China," McGregor told a meeting of the Beijing Foreign Correspondents Club.
"Perhaps the time has come for China to show some sincerity in getting into WTO (World Trade Organisation)," he said.
Chinese officials have blamed the United States for blocking their accession to the global trade group, but no other country wanted to ease entry requirements to a point at which they were not commercially viable, he said.
"There is room for compromise on China's WTO entry, but China should be sincerely interested in joining," he said.
The terms of Beijing's entry would affect other applicants to the WTO, McGregor said, adding that the group could not lower its standards for China.
Business investors from the United States, already upset by changes in taxes and rules, should pay note to anti-U.S. tirades in China's official press and the hostile stance of a popular book on Sino-U.S. relations called "China Can Say No", he said.
"I think that American business people in China really should pay attention to these stirrings of anti-American Chinese nationalism that we're seeing in this book and in the newspapers every day," he said.
The solid accomplishments achieved by the Beijing leadership over the past nearly two decades of economic reform could inspire positive nationalism without need to resort to anti-foreign rhetoric, he said.
While some Beijing officials appeared to want foreigners to play a minimal role, what China really needed was more opening to the outside and a bold continuation of economic reforms launched by paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, he said.
"And China should say yes to a more stable and friendlier relationship with America," he said.
Sino-U.S. ties have been rocked in recent years by disputes over Taiwan, human rights and copyright piracy, as well as annual battles over the conditions attached by the United States to China's Most Favoured Nation trade status (MFN).
While the American Chamber of Commerce had worked hard to boost relations and assure Beijing's MFN status, China's clampdown on its tiny band of pro-democracy dissidents could only harm ties, McGregor said.
"Our plan for next year is to try to get permanent MFN so we won't have this battle every year, but if China is rounding up dissidents and throwing them in jail...It's disappointing because it's not going to help U.S.-China relations," he said.
Beijing should also take account of dissatisfaction among foreign businessmen and investors and take into account their need to make profits, he said.
"China is not at the peak of its goodwill with foreign investors right now... Goodwill matters," he said.
China's oil and chemical trading giant Sinochem hopes to list shares in Singapore as a first step in its plan to become a world-class conglomerate, a top official said on Friday.
"Our objective is to build our company into a transnational conglomerate," President Zheng Dunxun said.
"We are looking at big Korean and Japanese conglomerates as models," he said.
Zheng, speaking to reporters and security analysts at Sinochem's Beijing headquarters, did not say how many shares would be offered or who much money would be raised.
Timing would depend on the Singapore stock exchange, which was now reviewing Sinochem's plan.
However, company officials said the review period might be longer than usual because the firm was a trading operation and had no production in Singapore.
The company had said last June it was confident of the success of its application and expected to be listed in two months.
Sinochem would retain 60 percent control of the listed company, Zhang said.
Sinochem, whose full name is China National Chemicals Import and Export Corporation, had net assets of more than $1.0 billion at the end of last year. Besides oil and chemical trading, its operations range from oil refining to shipping, warehousing and finance.
Sinochem officials said the company accounted for 40 percent of all of China's oil imports and the remaining 60 percent went through a joint venture in which it had a 50 percent stake.
Company officials said Sinochem had net profits of $75 million last year, down from $100 million in 1994. Turnover rose to $18.21 billion from $14.98 billion in 1994.
Asked why profits slid when revenues rose, officials said market conditions were to blame. They did not elaborate.
The Singapore listed unit would be Sinochem Asia Holdings (Company) Ltd and would include oil and other commodities trading operations in Singapore as well as trading vehicles in Thailand and South Korea.
Sinochem Asia Chairman Fu Yong declined to give the value of the assets of the Singapore listed company, but said they would not include Sinochem's big Hong Kong arm.
"Sinochem Hong Kong would be too big to be put into Sinochem Asia," he said.
Asked if this suggested another listing, for the Hong Kong operations, Fu said: "If the Singarpoe listing goes smoothly we might try other centres."
If the offer gains clearance form the Singapore stock exchange, Singapore's United Overseas Bank Ltd is expected to be the lead underwriter.
Two out of Japan's "Big Four" brokers, Nomura Securities and Daiwa Securities, are expected to regain their financial health in the current business year, analysts said on Friday.
Japan's second-biggest broker Daiwa Securities said on Friday that it was considering a restructuring programme for a non-bank affiliate.
While details have yet to be decided, analysts said it would not be surprising if Daiwa announces financial aid later in the 1996/97 business year ending in March.
"We expect Daiwa to post a parent current profit of 67 billion yen ($598 million) in 1996/97 if daily average turnover on the Tokyo exchange hits 430 billion yen ($3.83 billion) and if it does not give any support," said Ayako Sato, an analyst at UBS Securities.
Problem loans held by Daiwa's non-bank affiliate are estimated to total 100 billion yen ($892 million) to 150 billion yen ($1.33 billion), and even if the broker decides to help its affiliate write off problem loans in 1996/97, it would have no major impact on Daiwa's financial health, she said.
The "Big Four", including Nikko Securities and Yamaichi Securities, are scheduled to announce their business results on Tuesday for the first half of the fiscal year to September 30.
Japanese business daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun reported on Friday that Daiwa was likely to post flat parent net profits in 1996/97 as it has basically decided to provide financial support of about 100 billion yen ($892 million) to a non-bank affiliate.
Daiwa was expected to post a parent current profit of 50 billion yen ($446 million) for 1996/97 and an extraordinary profit of about 50 billion yen ($446 million) from sales of shares, offsetting the special loss stemming from the financial support, the paper said.
In the year ended March 31, 1996, Daiwa posted a parent net profit of 43.69 billion yen ($390 million).
The broker did not issue a profit forecast.
Last month, Nomura said it would provide financial support to its ailing affiliate and post a special loss of 371 billion yen ($3.31 billion) in the half year to September 30.
Nomura said it would post a net loss for the first half because of the special loss, but declined to give an earnings forecast for the half-year and the full year.
However, analysts were unsure whether the other two, Nikko and Yamaichi, which face similar financial problems at their non-bank affiliates, would take action in 1996/97.
A Nikko spokesman said on Friday that the company was considering measures to help its financial affiliates, but no decision had been made.
Ryuji Shirai, deputy president at Yamaichi Securities, said earlier this month that the firm has been reviewing the 10-year programme it launched three years ago to help restructure its non-bank affiliate, and may shorten that period.
UBS's Sato said that it may be difficult for Nikko to quickly decide any course of action for its non-bank affiliates as one of Nikko group's non-bank affiliates is jointly owned by Asahi Bank and its group companies.
Yamaichi's relatively weak capital base compared with the three other big brokers may make it difficult to provide financial aid to its non-bank affiliate in 1996/97, analysts also said.
Nikko projected a parent net profit of nine billion yen ($80.3 million) for the first half and 24 billion yen ($214 million) for the full 1996/97 year.
Yamaichi expected a parent net profit for the half-year of five billion yen ($44.6 million) and for the full year of 16 billion yen ($142 million). ($1=112 yen)
IBM reports earnings on Monday and analysts expect growth of about 5 percent for the third quarter, boosted by sales of personal computers, other hardware and its fast-growing service business.
Industry analysts expect the improvement after a difficult second quarter for International Business Machines Corp., the nation's biggest computer company, and despite a product transition that depressed results in its mainframe business.
The strong dollar will also constrain IBM's results, though not as much as in the second quarter, analysts said.
"I don't hear any whispers that it's a blowout or any whispers that it's going to be soft," said John Jones at Salomon Brothers. "I think it's going to be modestly above consensus."
According to First Call, which tracks forecasts, IBM is expected to earn $2.43 a share, on average, up from $2.30 a share, in the 1995 quarter. Estimates range from $2.17 a share to $2.60 a share.
In the third quarter of 1995 IBM earned $1.3 billion excluding a one-time charge of $1.8 billion associated with its aquisition of Lotus Development Corp. Including the Lotus charge, IBM lost $538 million, or 96 cents a share.
IBM stock rose $3.75 to $129.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, as some investors were apparently betting on solid results.
Sales grew in all of IBM's hardware businesses except mainframes, where tough pricing by competitors and IBM's transition to a new line of low-cost CMOS machines constrained results, analysts said. CMOS, or complimentary metal oxide semicondutor, mainframes are cheaper to manfacture and use less power.
"This quarter is not all that important a quarter," said Daniel Ries at Nomura Equity Research. "It was still a transition for the mainframe products. They started shipping them in volume on Sept. 30," right when the quarter ended.
Bill Milton at Brown Brothers Harriman said IBM most likely benefited from the sharp drop in memory chip prices that hurt its semiconductor operations in the second quarter. IBM's Microelectronics unit makes the dynamic random access memory (DRAM) chips that are the brains of many PCs.
"In the second quarter, the company felt the pain as a producer," Milton said. "But in the third quarter, many of those low-priced DRAMs were incorporated in IBM PCs and they saw a net benefit as a consumer," he said.
Analysts said they expect the rest of IBM's hardware businesses to show growth, including personal computers, AS/400 minicomputers, which are used in corporations and are the company's second most profitable computers, and RS/6000 workstations, used by engineers and designers.
PC sales growth will not match the second quarter's 30 percent rate, analysts said. Compaq Computer Corp. was upgrading products in the second quarter, which helped IBM's PC sales.
"Last quarter they had the strongest quarter in years (in PCs)," said Nomura's Ries. "The significant contributing factor to that was that Compaq was refreshing their product line."
But Ries said PC demand was very strong now, especially with corporate customers, one of IBM's strengths.
Analysts also said they expect continued strong growth in IBM's computer services, the stellar performer last quarter with growth of 23 percent.
"Services will continue to grow at more than 20 percent," Brown Brothers' Milton said.
IBM Chief Financial Officer G. Richard Thoman and other executives will discuss the results with analysts on Monday morning in New York.
McDonald's Corp. on Friday reported a 10 percent rise in net income, despite a weak U.S. operating environment that was offset by growth overseas.
The fast-food giant, which has nearly 20,000 restaurants worldwide, said net income rose to $440 million from $400 million. Earnings per share gained 11 percent, with fewer shares outstanding, to 62 cents a share from 56 cents.
Earnings for the quarter, however, were about 1 cent below what analysts had expected.
McDonald's, based in Oak Brook, Ill., said operating earnings in the United States fell five percent in the third quarter while company revenues rose only one percent.
"Our U.S. restaurants are operating in a complex, dynamic and difficult marketplace and recent operating performance has fallen short of our goals," Chairman Michael Quinlan said in a statement.
McDonald's said U.S. same store sales -- measuring results for units open at least one year -- were negative for both the third quarter and nine-month period.
But U.S. sales may be picking up, said Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Oakes. "I think (U.S. same store sales) are starting to hit bottom," Oakes said. "Thus far in October, it (seems) like they have picked up and are in the flattish range."
McDonald's recently reorganized its management to address disappointing results in the United States.
Outside the United States, McDonald's operating earnings grew 11 percent in the quarter as revenue jumped 13 percent.
It said growth in earnings was strongest in Hong Kong, England, Italy, Spain, Sweden and Taiwan. Results in Mexico remained weak due to the sluggish economy, it said.
While McDonald's continues to expand its global reach, the company said its new restaurant openings for 1996 and 1997 likely will be at the low-end of its targeted range of 2,500 to 3,200 units.
"We will hit the low end of our projected range (with) 2,500-plus restaurants (in 1996)," McDonald's spokesman Chuck Ebeling said. "We're just doing our planning for next year, but we expect to do 2,500 plus next year."
This would be the first time in at least three years that McDonald's failed to meet its expansion projections, as it cuts back on limited menu, or satellite, units.
In 1995, McDonald's opened 2,430 units, beating the projection for that year of 2,300. In 1994, it opened 1,800 units, beating the projection of about 1,400 to 1,700.
McDonald's has nearly 20,000 restaurants worldwide.
"We've been ratcheting up the level of development every year since around 1991," Ebeling said.
Ebeling said McDonald's this year plans to open about "600-plus" satellite units worldwide, down from its original plan of 700 to 1,000 satellites. The biggest decline will be seen in the United States.
"We recognise we need higher volume restaurants to meet the kind of profitability that we'd like for ourselves and our franchisees," Ebeling said.
Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Oakes said the profitability of some satellite units, which are often built in non-traditional sites such as shopping malls, has been uncertain. "In the big picture, the financial performance of satellites appears to be spotty," Oakes said.
Ebeling said U.S. satellite units will acount for about one-third of the total for these smaller sites, compared with 60 percent as originally planned.
Overall, Ebeling said about one-third of McDonald's total restaurant openings will still be in the United States.
Ford Motor Co., which reported a $472 million loss in Europe this week, faces a long and difficult job to cut costs and jump-start its product line to deal with a sluggish European market and tough competition, analysts said Friday.
Ford executives this week disclosed that they plan a broad effort to cut costs in Europe, including product costs, material costs, and personnel and plant costs.
"We need to restructure and we need to reduce our costs," Ford Vice President of Finance David McCammon told reporters.
The cuts will include an early retirement programme that is expected to eliminate more than 2,000 jobs in Europe, he said.
The initiatives, to be announced within the next three months, follow Ford's actions in 1993 to eliminate about 13,000 jobs from its Euoprean operations.
Ford's $472 million European loss compared with a $320 million deficit a year ago, and was due partly to product launch costs.
But analysts said there are no quick fixes to Ford's problems in Europe, which include high costs for its smaller cars and the lack of a competitive, high-volume large car.
"I don't think it's something that's corrected in one or two quarters," said PaineWebber analyst Michael Ward. "We probably have another year or two where the news from Ford's European operations is not very good."
The automaker's production and parts suppliers are heavily concentrated in Germany, where costs are high and the company is more susceptible to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. General Motors Corp.'s assembly operations and suppliers are spread more evenly throughout Europe, giving the automaker a competitive advantage.
Although the third quarter is typically the weakest period of the year because of vacations and model changeovers, GM's European operations earned $75 million during the third quarter, compared with a year-ago loss of $98 million -- a performance analysts attribute to extremely low investment costs and strong product acceptance.
Shifting Ford's supplier base is a long-term task, as is cutting investment costs in new products. The first new cars developed under Ford's more efficient "Ford 2000" structure are not expected to be on the market for at least two more years, analysts said.
The new Ford Ka minicar, developed for $250 million using off-the-shelf components, is a step in the right direction, but is expected to bring only razor thin profit margins, due to its low price, analysts said.
Unlike in the United States, Ford in Europe cannot count on highly profitable light trucks and sport utility vehicles to make most of its money. It must rely on mostly small cars, including the Fiesta, Escort and the mid-size Mondeo.
Ford's Scorpio large car, which was widely panned two years ago when it was last redesigned, has performed poorly against the likes of Bayerische Motoren Werke AG's 5-Series, GM's Opel Omega and the Mercedes-Benz E-Class.
"They have no money spinner in Europe," said Lehman Brothers auto analyst Joseph Phillippi.
Ford's Mondeo, a strong seller, is still handicapped by its initial $6 billion development cost, which also included the Ford Contour and Mercury Mystique in the United States.
Although the Mondeo received exterior and interior changes for the 1997 model year, competition in that segment of the market is much tougher than it was when the car first debuted in 1993.
Opel's new Vectra, Audi AG's A4 and Volkswagen AG's new Passat are expected to draw many buyers away from the Mondeo.
Making matters worse is the sluggish market. Analysts estimate that automakers have enough capacity to build 16 million cars in Europe, but sales this year will be only about 12.5 million, forcing deep price cuts.
"What's happening is there's an overcapacity situation in Europe," Ford's McCammon said. "Everybody's fighting it out for market share and spending a lot of money for marketing incentives."
He said all European automakers, except for GM, have been struggling through the same problems. A decade ago, it was GM that was struggling in Europe and Ford was the top performer.
"I guess things switched," McCammon said. "We had a great position of leadership and we're unhappy that we don't have that any more."
International Business Machines Corp is expected to report solid third quarter earnings Monday, but because its new mainframes did not ship in big volumes until the end of the quarter, analysts said they do not expect any big upside surprises.
According to First Call, the computer giant is expected to report earnings in the range of $2.17 to $2.60 a share, with a consensus estimate of $2.43 a share, versus $2.30 a year ago.
IBM is also expected to have a negative impact from currency moves, but not as big as its hit in second quarter.
Lear Corp., furthering its quest to supply complete car interiors, said Friday it agreed to buy the instrument panel and trim parts unit of Denmark-based Borealis Holding AB.
Lear said it signed a memorandum of understanding to acquire Borealis Industrier AB for undisclosed terms.
Based in Gothenburg, Sweden, Borealis Industrier manufacturers instrument panels, door panels, climate systems, exterior trim and various other components for the European car and truck industry.
Borealis Industrier had 1995 sales of about $230 million and owns five plants in Sweden that employ about 1,800 people.
Primary customers for the business include Swedish carmakers AB Volvo and Saab Automobile AB and truckmaker Scania AB.
Borealis Holding is owned by Finnish state-controlled oil and energy group Neste Oy and Norwegian state-owned oil group Statoil AS.
Completion of the transaction is subject to approval by the Swedish competition authority and other conditions.
Lear said the acquisition supports its strategy of having in-house capability to provide total automotive interior systems, including instrument panels.
"Not only does this acquisition strengthen relations with our European customers, but it positions Lear as the only independent automotive supplier in the world with in-house capabilities in all five interior systems -- broadening the appeal of our already strong one-stop-shopping competitive advantage," Lear Chairman Kenneth Way said in a statement.
The deal is the latest of a series of consolidation moves in the automotive interior market. Lear earlier this year purchased carpet and floor-mat maker Masland Corp. for $384 million, and last year bought door panel and console maker Automotive Industries Inc for $626 million.
Lear's U.S. operations include the manufacturing of a wide range of automotive interior components.
The company's stock was unchanged Friday at $38 a share on the New York Stock Exchange.
Lear's competitors are also pursuing the same acquisition strategy.
Johnson Controls Inc., which has a strong seating business, recently acquired interior parts maker Prince Automotive, based in Holland Mich., for $1.35 billion in cash.
Canada's Magna International Inc., one of the "Big Three" automotive interior firms along with Lear and Johnson Controls, recently acquired seat maker Douglas &amp; Lomason Co. for $135 million.
Microsoft Corp. is expected to report a sharp slowdown in earnings growth Monday due largely to a sales surge last year when the software giant launched its Windows 95 operating system.
On average, industry analysts expect the company to post earnings of 90 cents a share for its fiscal first quarter, up 15 percent from last year's 78 cents, according to First Call, which tracks earnings predictions. In last year's fiscal first quarter Microsoft reported net income of $499 million.
Analysts generally said the Redmond, Wash.-based company would post revenues in the $2.3 billion range for the period that ended Sept. 30, up from $2.02 billion.
While Microsoft's growth rate is still healthy, and results are expected to be slightly higher than in the quarter ended in June, the company is facing difficult comparisons after last year, when revenues and earnings grew more than 46 percent.
"It's a tough comparison because in the September quarter last year was the initial release of Windows 95 and all the sell-in associated with that, so it was a great quarter," said Chris Galvin of Hambrecht and Quist.
But he and other analysts said Microsoft's business was continuing to expand steadily, benefiting from rising sales of personal computers and the increasing penetration of Windows 95 and the more lucrative Windows NT system.
Microsoft's already-high profit margins also are rising as the company sells a growing proportion of its software by preloading it onto new computers or selling licenses to large customers rather than shrink-wrapped boxes at retail stores.
Microsoft's business is expected to gain momentum through the fiscal year as the recently updated Windows NT wins more acceptance and the company rolls out a major new version of its Office software package beginning in December.
For the full fiscal year, analysts see earnings and sales up about 20 percent over last year.
"I think NT will really start ramping in the December quarter and in the first part of '97," said Scott McAdams of Ragen MacKenzie. "It's going to be a very powerful driver of earnings."
One cloud on Microsoft's horizon is the imminent arrival of a wave of "thin client" products such as the Network Computer championed by Oracle Corp. Chairman Larry Ellison.
Late this month, Sun Microsystems Inc. is expected to launch a line of products code-named "Mr. Coffee" based on the increasingly popular Java language, which is being positioned as an alternative to the "Wintel" combination of Microsoft Windows operating systems on Intel Corp. processors.
While corporate users are not rushing to desert their personal computer networks, the increasing publicity about alternatives could hurt Microsoft's stock price, which was off $1.25 Friday at $134.25 in afteroon trading on Nasdaq but still up more than 50 percent so far this year.
Microsoft Corp is expected to report a sharp slowdown in earnings growth Monday due largely to a sales surge last year when the software giant launched its Windows 95 operating system.
On average, industry analysts expect the company to post earnings of $0.90 a share for its fiscal first quarter, up 15 percent from last year's $0.78, according to First Call.  
"It's a tough comparison because in the September quarter last year was the initial release of Windows 95 and all the sell-in associated with that, so it was a great quarter," said Chris Galvin of Hambrecht and Quist.
But he and other analysts said Microsoft's business was continuing to expand steadily, benefiting from rising sales of personal computers and the increasing penetration of Windows 95 and the more lucrative Windows NT system.  
Microsoft's already-high profit margins also are rising as the company sells a growing proportion of its software by preloading it onto new computers or selling licenses to large customers rather than shrink-wrapped boxes at retail stores.
Microsoft's business is expected to gain momentum through the fiscal year as the recently updated Windows NT wins more acceptance and the company rolls out a major new version of its Office application suite beginning in December.
For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1997, analysts on average see earnings of $4.07 a share, up 19 percent from last year's $3.43, First Call said.  
"I think NT will really start ramping in the December quarter and in the first part of '97," said analyst Scott McAdams of Ragen MacKenzie. "It's going to be a very powerful driver of earnings," he said.
One cloud on Microsoft's horizon is the imminent arrival of a wave of "thin client" products such as the Network Computer championed by Oracle Corp Chairman Larry Ellison.  
Late this month Sun Microsystems Inc is expected to launch a line of products code-named "Mr. Coffee" based on the increasingly popular Java language, which is being positioned as an alternative to the "Wintel" combination of Microsoft operating systems on Intel Corp processors.
While corporate users are not rushing to desert their personal computer networks, the increasing publicity about alternatives could hurt Microsoft's stock price, which is at near-record levels and up more than 50 percent since its 1995 closing price of $87.75.  
"It's been a bit of a back burner issue, ... but it will move to the front burner," said Rick Sherlund of Goldman Sachs.
Microsoft's earnings picture also is becoming blurred by revenue that the company defers to account for delayed costs such as service updates and technical support for its operating systems and business applications.
Microsoft had "unearned revenue" of $545 million on its balance sheet as of June 30, a figure that could rise to $1 billion by the end of the current fiscal year, McAdams said.
Britain's Lloyds Chemists said on Friday it was unable to advise shareholders what action to take on a renewed bid offer from UniChem until it had heard from rival suitor Gehe AG.
"What we will now need to do is to see if we can ascertain Gehe's intentions," finance director Johnathan Fellows said in an interview.
Both UniChem's original bid for the pharmacy chain and a rival offer from German pharmaceutical wholesaler Gehe AG lapsed in March after being referred to Britain's Monopolies and Mergers Commission because of competition fears.
"We have no comment at this stage. We need to meet as a board and we clearly need to have some correspondence with our shareholders. We have not yet resolved what recommendations to make," Fellows said.
"I would hope to make an announcement in the next few days."
News of UniChem's renewed offer sent Lloyds shares to a record high of 523p, before slipping back to 518p, up 13-1/2p on the day. UniChem shares fell 6p to 250. Gehe shares trading in Frankfurt were off two marks at 109 marks.
Gehe, whose lapsed offer was an all cash bid pitched at 500 pence per share, said it planned an announcement later in the day.
UniChem, which already owns 9.9 percent of Lloyds, is offering 16 new UniChem shares and 926p in cash for every 10 Lloyds shares. That values the company at 657.6 million pounds ($1.04 billion).
UniChem also said it had identified cost savings and revenue benefits "conservatively" estimated at more than 15 million pounds in the 12 months after an acquisition and in excess of 20 million pounds a year thereafter.
As well as cost-savings UniChem said the acquisition would enable faster development of its retail pharmacy business and be earnings enhancing after 12 months.
"We believe that our extensive retail expertise, together with our unparalleled pharmaceutical wholesale distribution capabilities, will greatly enhance both businesses," said Jeffery Harris, chief executive of UniChem.
The offer was announced shortly after Britain's Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) cleared the way for a takeover of Lloyds, providing UniChem and Gehe fulfill promises to sell off certain parts of Lloyds.
"UniChem and GEHE have each identified a number of potential firm buyers for the businesses they are required to divest. These have been approved by the minister," said the DTI.
If either UniChem or Gehe are successful in acquiring Lloyds, they must sell off specified Lloyds' wholesale businesses within three months of the completed merger, the department said.
Lloyds Chemists, owns the second largest chain of retail pharmacies in Britain with more than 900 outlets. UniChem is one of the two largest wholesalers of pharmaceutical products in Britain and also owns a chaon of some 400 retail pharmacies.
Gehe, Europe's largest drug distributor, is keen to expand its pharmaceutical retail business in Britain which it entered with the acquisition of AAH Plc in April. ($1=.6298 Pound)
Wolseley Plc, the British building materials giant, is seen reporting slightly lower year pretax profits next Tuesday as expected, but reporting a rise in its dividend payout.
Wolseley was one of many in the sector to issue a profit warning earlier this year when it said that year profits for the period to July 31 would not match 1995.  
But the group is seen turning in a more solid performance for the year than rivals including Redland Plc and RMC Group Plc who have been hit by their heavy exposure to the German market.
Analysts forecasts for Wolseley's year profits ranged from 230 million stg to 240 million, with an average prediction of 234.9 million against 245.4 million last year.
The dividend is expected to come out between 10.3 pence and 10.5 pence, with analysts predicting an average payout of 10.3 pence against 9.8 pence last year.  
A key reason for its relatively better performance compared to sector rivals is that that 50 percent of Wolseley's revenues stemmed from the U.S. market, an analyst said.
"The U.S. may have its regional differences but nationally the economy is doing well," he said.
He added, however, that the UK market remained difficult and France continued to be "dreadful."
France is expected to continue to be difficult, while in the UK a recent uptick in the housing market may have fed through to materials firms -- but this remains to be seen.  
With a recent changeover of top management, market watchers will also be looking for evidence of any tinkering with the group strategy.
Wolseley's existing strategy is seen as sound and analysts may be perturbed if there is evidence of it being radically altered, said one.
No exceptionals are anticipated in the results.
--Edna Fernandes, London newsroom +44 171 5427717
Ice cream had a sad time in Europe this summer, adding fresh impetus for the big makers to try to persuade us to eat it in the winter.
"We think for Unilever its meant 125 million pounds ($198.4 million) in lost sales and lost profits of 50 million in the summer months across europe," said David Lang, analyst at Henderson Crosthwaite.
The dull summer has hit impulse purchases of ice creams worst of all, a high-margin sector that makes up one third of all European ice cream sales.
Coca-Cola, sometimes taken as a benchmark for consumer spending behaviour, reported a 10 percent decline in case sales in Germany, 17 percent down in Britain and four percent down in France as a result of the poor summer.
It's no surprise then to find marketing executives at Wall's and Nestle scurrying for new products to sell in the winter months.
Britain's Birds Eye Wall's, owned by Unilever, said it has launched seven new lines across its impulse, take-home and multipack sectors as chocolate indulgences for the winter months.
Nestle is trying to roll out products like its Christmas Log in France to even out the seasonal swing in sales.
Both companies argue if people in Norway and Sweden, where the climate is cooler, can eat twice as much ice cream than in Britain, then there is work to be done.
"The snag is that in summer when people are on holiday that is when impulse sales are always at their highest, people just don't associate having an ice cream with winter," said John Campbell, an analyst at Paribas.
Industry watchers also point out that children, who account for 40 percent of all impulse icecream sales, take their longest holidays in the summer.
Wall's, the largest player in the British icecream market worth about 1.0 billion pounds estimates some 60 million pounds of the market growth in 1995 came from the very hot summer.
Wall's brands account for 17 out of the top 20 selling impulse brands with Wall's Solero heading up the league followed by Magnum White and Magnum Classic.
In terms of total market share Wall's has 43 percent in Britain, Nestle Lyons Maid 12 percent, Mars 7 percent, own label 29 percent and others 9 percent.
In a week of indifferent summer weather Wall's sells about 23 to 25 million portions of icecream whereas in a hot sunny week this figure can rise to around 55 million portions.
The big players in the 15 billion pounds European icecream market have come down with a thud from the summer of 1995.
It was the third hottest summer on record in Europe and August the hottest and sunniest ever -- with long periods of temperatures above 16 degrees centigrade, at which point consumers really switch into buying icecream.
Temperatures soared to an average 17.5 degrees centigrade in Britain with 7.8 hours of sunshine a day compared with 7.2 hours in 1996. Statistics from the MetOffice, Britain's national weather centre, show an average temperature of 15.9 degrees for the summer of 1996. The office says the South of France and Spain had just an average summer this year.
Nestle, who entered the UK market in 1992 with the purchase of the Lyons Maid brand, estimates total sales in Britain are down some 5 percent at 879 million due to the dull summer, of this hand held icecreams accounted for 489 million.
In Britain the all-time Summer record for Wall's still stands at 71 million portions sold during one week in the long, hot summer of 1976 -- the year when Wall's Cornetto first hit the market.
However much the big fridge fillers spend on advertising and dreaming up new products it will be hard to break that record.
($1=.6299 Pound)
Emaciated refining margins and soaring demand have forced China to raise domestic prices on gasoil effective Friday, Chinese oil sources said.
Sinopec earlier confirmed the ex-refinery price for diesel, or gasoil, was being raised to 1,990 yuan per tonne from 1,900 yuan.
This is the first time prices have been raised since ceilings on domestic refined product prices were introduced in May 1994 to lock in margins for domestic refiners.  
"If prices are not raised, refineries, especially those along the coast cannot survive," a trader with state refiner Sinopec said by telephone.
"Refineries have lobbied for a long time for prices to be raised," he said, adding mainland refiners had been reeling from soaring crude bills this year.
Chinese refiners have been holding back importS of crude oil in international markets this year.  
Prompt prices of North Sea Brent, a global benchmark, are currently $24.20 per barrel. Earlier this week they hit a five-year high of $25.06 per barrel -- representing a 57 percent rise in prices from the low of this year of $15.93.
Asian benchmark Tapis crude is currently valued at five-year highs of $26.40 per barrel -- a 35 percent increase on the 1996 low of $19.45.
Chinese refineries have also been afflicted by a 110 yuan increase in domestic crude prices since January to between 864 and 794 yuan per tonne.  
Sources said it was not immediately clear whether prices of other petroleum products would move up in tandem as Beijing had initially been reluctant to approve the diesel increase due to fear of causing an inflationary backlash.
Other Sinopec sources said the move may be intended to encourage domestic production of more gasoil, over higher-valued products such as gasoline.
"Sales of gasoil are very brisk, the moment it's out it's sold, refineries are just not producing enough to satisfy demand," a source with the coastal Fujian refinery said.
--Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 28436441
China is dipping its toe into the freedoms of Hong Kong but is finding the water chilly -- and Beijing's latest pronouncement on freedom of expression under Chinese rule may be giving it cold feet, analysts said on Friday.
China's communist rulers are so accustomed to exercising power that is scarcely checked by law, they may be having difficulty curbing their tongues when it comes to the delicate handover of Hong Kong, diplomats said on Friday.
One example came on Thursday when China tried to backtrack from a warning by Foreign Minister Qian Qichen to Hong Kong people on limits to their freedom of expression after the territory reverts to Beijing rule on July 1, 1997.
"Chinese officials seem to be speaking from the heart when it comes to Hong Kong and then realise that they have put their foot in their mouth where the law is concerned," said one Western analyst.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang raced on Thursday to repair damage from his boss's remarks, saying: "Hong Kong people will have full freedom of expression, but all freedoms must be within the limits allowed by law."
His statement followed an interview with Foreign Minister Qian by the Asian Wall Street Journal,in which Qian hinted that Hong Kong would no longer be able to mark the anniversary of Beijing's June 4, 1989, crackdown on student-led protests.
Qian's interview stirred an outcry in Hong Kong, where China has pledged a high degree of political freedoms for 50 years after the handover on July 1, 1997, and not to change its capitalist system.
But Shen's damage control may have been too late.
Western diplomats said Qian's remarks gave great cause for concern and were almost certain to stir anxiety in Hong Kong.
"Ordinary Hong Kong people have fairly mixed feelings," said one Western diplomat. "There is an element of patriotism about their return to the mainland but they don't want their basic freedoms to be put in question."
Chinese officials said Foreign Minister Qian was believed to have shown great interest in the response in Hong Kong to his remarks on the limits on what Hong Kong's people could do after the 1997 handover.
Qian was reported to have showed little surprise at the reaction in Hong Kong, and had paid close attention to the stir in the territory, one official said.
"It looks as if he may have gone a little beyond what he should have said," said another Western diplomat. "But he clearly thought he was safe in saying that and now they are trying to smooth over the rough edges."
Hong Kong newspaper reports that interpreted Qian's remarks as a ban on activities in the territory to commemorate the 1989 crackdown were wrong, Shen said, adding that Beijing had not altered its pledge to maintain Hong Kong's current political and economic system under Chinese sovereignty.
A transcript of Qian's interview showed he was specifically asked what activities would not be allowed and whether the 1989 commemoration was among them. Qian replied that he was referring to just such activities.
"This isn't the first time this kind of faux pas has happened," one diplomat said, referring to similar remarks this year on post-1997 freedom limitations by Lu Ping, director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office under China's State Council, or cabinet.
"I don't expect that it will be the last."
To hear the Shanghai Film Studio tell the story, it is a classic drama of a poor, brave underdog challenging a greedy, monopolising giant.
But the studio, one of the oldest and biggest film-making operations in China, says it is gaining ground in its cinema chain war against the main movie distributor in Shanghai, the Yongle chain.
The studio boss, Zhu Yongde, said he created his own chain of cinemas last year after Yongle refused a re-division of box offices receipts.
"I didn't want to do it but we had no choice, the Shanghai movie market is becoming more and more important," he said in an interview.
The Shanghai Film Studio has made only paper-thin profits in recent years largely due, Zhu says, to the unreasonably high demands of Yongle and other film distributors around China.
With cinema attendance well below half what it was in the days before China's 1980s television revolution, revenue has plummeted and costs have exploded.
What's a film studio boss to do but try to shave the distributor's box office share?
Zhu says he originally went to Yongle to ask for a re-division of profits, which used to be 30 percent for Yongle, 20 percent for the film studio and 50 percent for the cinema operators.
His final offer was a straight split: 25 percent for Yongle, and 25 percent for the film studio. Yongle refused, he said.
"I said to them: we spend the money to make the movies, we take all the investment risk, while you do nothing. You make profits on the basis of almost no costs. But they wouldn't do it," he said.
So Zhu went off and set up his own cinema chain instead.
Yongle's story is slightly different.
A spokeswoman said the Dongfang cinema chain was set up as part of a national process of diversifying ownership of cinemas and distribution. She said Yongle currently received only 15 percent of box office receipts.
Shanghai now has a total of 100 movie screens, ranging from some of the world's classiest picture houses dating from the golden age of cinema, to down-at-heel workers' clubs which put on movies each night in their main hall.
Yongle controls all of the top cinemas, including the magnificent Daguangming movie house on Nanjing Road, a major shopping and entertainment thoroughfare for more than a century.
Zhu's rival chain, called Dongfang (Orient), controls 22 screens which tend to be more basic and local, cinemagoers say.
"It took a lot of effort, a lot of negotiating with each cinema operator, the whole process took more than a year," said Zhu.
He said he only managed to prise many of the cinema operators away from Yongle by guaranteeing them a minimum level of income.
"Box office receipts for all of them are up since we took over their distribution, some up 70 percent, some up as much as 200 percent," he said. "The 22 cinemas used to account for eight percent of Shanghai's box office receipts, but it's gone up to 24 percent."
Yongle has been fighting back over the past year with the release of a series of blockbuster Hollywood epics, including most recently "Twister" and "True Lies", which have proved very popular.
Zhu declined to say how many movies the studio would produce this year, and a member of his staff later only said it would be less than 15, far below production levels of a decade ago.
But Zhu did say he was looking to diversify the studio's finances away from movies into a wide range of other activities including hotels, real estate, television production, advertising and a steel tube factory.
He said his aim was to make films responsible for less than 20 percent of the film studio's total profits by the year 2000.
"We can't make money out of films the way things are," he said.
Britain's Tim Henman emerged on Friday as the only seed to advance to the semifinals of the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open.
In the day's opening match, seventh seeded Henman downed second seed Wayne Ferreira 6-4 6-3, while fifth seed Todd Martin was edged out by Germany's David Prinosil 7-6 7-6 and sixth seed Michael Stich lost to Czech Martin Damm 5-7 6-4 6-4.
Czech Petr Korda rounded out the final four with his win over Davis Cup team mate Jiri Novak 6-1 6-0. Korda now faces another Davis Cupper in Damm. Henman will square off against Prinosil in the other semifinal on Saturday.
Reigning Ostrava champion Ferreira, ranked seventh in the world, never looked comfortable against Henman, the more aggressive of the two for most of the match.
He failed to gain a single break point all match while the 22-year-old Briton broke serve late in both sets.
Henman's win avenged his loss to the South African in Toronto earlier this year, and he said he had taken notes from that match on to court on Friday.
"In Toronto, Ferreira was dictating the points -- serving very well and hitting forehands very well -- so today I tried to be very aggressive and, when I had an opportunity, move forward," said Henman, ranked 26th in the world.
Local favourite Damm, a finalist at the Beijing Open last week showed little signs of jet lag in spoiling Stich's 28th birthday. After losing the first set, Damm scored crucial breaks in the ninth game of the final two sets to take the match.
For Martin, defeat was especially painful as he could have gained valuable ground on Ferreira in the race for the final spot at the ATP Tour championship in Hanover at the end of the season.
The American currently sits 199 points behind the South African. A semifinal berth would have eaten 37 points out of that lead while a place in the finals would have almost halved Ferreira's advantage.
Prinosil, ranked 58th in the world, profited from a Martin double fault at 5-5 in the first set tiebreak and took a 4-0 lead in the second set tiebreak on the way to sealing victory.
Martin said: "I realise I didn't help my cause at all but we've got two of the biggest tournaments coming up and I think whoever does really well in those events should probably play themselves into a position at Hanover.
Martin, Stich and Ferreira both play next week in Stuttgart, where the winner gains 370 tour points, 200 more than the winner here.
The tournament's organisers said on Friday that they expect Becker will also be fit to play. In a move to accomodate the Australian Open champion, his first round match has been put back until Wednesday.
Germany's David Prinosil ended rising British star Tim Henman's bid for his first ATP Tour victory on Saturday, while Czech Petr Korda halted compatriot Martin Damm's quest for his second final appearance in two weeks.
Prinosil beat Henman 6-4 6-3 in the semifinals of the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open and Korda followed with a hard-fought 4-6 6-3 7-5 victory against his Davis Cup team mate.
Seventh seed Henman, who had not lost a set all week, looked shaky on his groundstrokes early, but stayed in contention with his strong serve, firing seven of his 11 aces in the first set.
But in the 10th game of the match, Henman's serve failed him, his double fault giving the German triple break point.
Henman, who has now reached seven semifinals but never gone further, fought back with a service winner and then an ace, but as he has done all week, Prinosil blasted a brilliant return to take the point and set.
The British number one recovered to gain two break points of his own in the third game, but failed to come up big when he needed to.
Prinosil, who was born near here in Olomouc before emigrating to Germany, then took control.
Henman said: "I didn't serve well at the right times. I felt confident coming into the match, (but) I just didn't really make anything happen today. It was just a case of not really having a good day at the office.
"I'm disappointed to have lost because I thought it was a good opportunity to make my first final. Bar this match, I've played very well this week and am confident going into Stuttgart and Paris."
Prinosil said: "I served very strongly today and just tried to play within myself, not get too excited and lose my concentration. No matter what happens tomorrow, this tournament has been a great success for me."
Damm also looked on the bright side, viewing his appearance in the final last Sunday in the Beijing Open and this week's march to the semifinals as two of the best weeks of tennis he has ever played.
Victimns on the way have included world number three Michael Chang and ex-Wimbledon champion Michael Stich.
For Korda the win came as a relief following claims in the local media that he could no longer hold his nerve in big matches.
The former world number five has suffered several injuries in the past two years, dropping to 49th in the rankings.
"I felt a lot of pressure at the beginning of the match and I've never seen Martin play that well, but I think I also showed that I am still capable of playing tennis at the highest level," said Korda, who won his first tournament in two seasons at the Qatar Open earlier this year.
Jean-Luc Lagardere, chairman of Lagardere Groupe, said on Saturday that his group was not going to sell Thomson's prized digital television know-how to South Korea's Daewoo Electronics.
Lagardere, adressing students at the Sorbonne university during a weekend seminar on industry, said in his first public comments after winning the bidding for state-owned Thomson that he had selected Daewoo as partner because it was the best guarantee for jobs at Thomson's French production units.
The French government on Wednesday announced it had selected Lagardere to buy state-owned Thomson SA for one franc, after an 11-billion francs capital injection.
Lagardare had been bidding against telecommunication equipment and industrial engineering group Alcatel Alsthom.
Lagardere Groupe plans to merge its Matra defense business with Thomson's 58-percent unit Thomson-CSF, after buying out the minorities on the Paris Bourse, and has agreed to sell Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo -- also for a symbolic franc.
Lagardere heard the news that his group had won the bidding, -- against expectations as the French media expected Alcatel Alsthom and its no-nonsense chairman Serge Tchuruk to be the winners -- on Tuesday evening during an official dinner at the start of a Picasso exhibition in Paris.
"I did not feel like I received the golden medal," Lagardere said. "I felt like I was selected to play for France," the 69-year old businessman said.
"In four year's time, while I will then still be involved in our business, I hope that people like (Matra boss) Noel Forgeard can celebrate the award of a golden medal. We will have a good team in an industry where competition is without pity," he said.
Lagardere, a Gascogne farmer's son who built a worldwide books-to-missiles business empire from a small company he joined 32-years ago, is facing criticism by some French media and labour unions for selling the Multimedia business to Daewoo.
The critics blame him for selling French technology to a South Korean company and they also expect massive job losses.
Lagardere said these remarks were not true.
He said that back in February when President Jacques Chirac first mentioned the privatisation, he believed the state was only going to sell Thomson-CSF as part of a defence overhaul.
"But then the Finance Ministry came from behind and integrated Multimedia into the deal," Lagardere said.
"So I went to look for partners. I searched in Europe, the U.S., Japan and Korea. I choose Daewoo because I thought they were the best guarantee for jobs, " he said.
Daewoo Electronics plans to create 5,000 jobs in France at Thomson Multimedia, the world's fourth biggest maker of televisions which employs some 49,500 people world-wide.
"I give my personal guarantee to those (French) jobs. Daewoo has made commitments to the government and to us," he said.
While Daewoo is taking over the television and video recorder production activities. Thomson Multimedia's digital television know-how will be put into a special joint-venture.
"We took the technology out of the company and put it in a joint venture (with Daewoo) in which we have 51 percent," Lagardere said. While he used the past tense on Saturday, the French Privatisation Commission and European Commission still have to approve the deal, which is scheduled for completion at the end of the year.
Computer Associates International Inc. is expected to unveil Monday a new Internet division that promises to save businesses from the headaches of seeking numerous vendors now needed to set up and manage a Web site.
The company, which manages Web sites for large corporate customers, also plans to sign up hundreds of thousands of small businesses to use the service whether they own computers or not, sources close to the company said.
In this "community" Internet service, neighbourhood businesses such as pizza parlours would contract with Computer Associates to establish an Internet presence, allowing customers to call up a shop's Web site to place an order.
Currently, a company wishing to establish itself on the the Internet is confronted with a maze of separate vendors from which they must buy the necessary hardware, software and consultanting services to put together the disparate elements.
The aim of Computer Associates' one-stop Internet service would be to shoulder all the messy technical responsibilities for customers, allowing them to focus on their own business.
"Computer Associates wants to ride the electronic commerce wave that is coming down the pike," said one source familiar with the CA Internet unit strategy. "CA will provide a company the capacity for electronic commerce (on Web) sites in return for a revenue-sharing arrangement."
Although not nearly so well known as Microsoft Corp. and other brand name PC software makers, Computer Associates is the world's top mainframe software supplier and the second largest independent software firm overall after Microsoft.
Launching the new business unit is one of several major announcements the company is expected to make at its three-day CA World conference that started Sunday in New Orleans.
In addition, Islandia, N.Y.-based Computer Associates has slated separate press conferences with Microsoft, Intel Corp. and Tandem Computers Inc. Monday and Tuesday.
Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates is scheduled to deliver a keynote speech Tuesday evening that is likely to centre on the further integration of Consumer Associates and Microsoft software strategies.
Computer Associates declined to comment on announcements that may be in the works. Specifically, officials would not discuss plans to launch a separate Internet business unit.
But sources familiar with Consumer Associates' plans confirmed that the new Internet unit has been formed to help customers create dynamic Web sites tied to internal corporate database systems.
A special focus would be to make customer information stored on legacy mainframe systems available via the Web.
Web-based electronic commerce tools would tie the system directly to a company's back-office accounting department.
The division will account for only a few hundred out of Computer Associates' 9,000 total employees, the sources said.
The planned business, which has been in the works since April, would be a natural extension of CA's systems management and database products target its existing customer base of the world's largest corporations, as well as smaller firms.
In the pizza parlour example, a customer order would be routed over Computer Associates computers to the local pizza parlour, which would bake the pizza, bill the customer's credit card account and then deliver the order.
Customer data storage would be hosted on Consumer Associates mainframes, an unusual feature compared to the hundreds of other Web service providers, who tend to leave information management in the hands of customers once Web site development work is complete.
In effect, Computer Associates' plans would resurrect mainframe time-sharing, where in companies rent time on remote computers and pay service providers to assume responsibility for the headaches of managing the systems.
Computer Associates stock, which has been trading at historic highs recently, rose $1 to close at $58.25 on the New York Stock Exchange Friday.
Germany's David Prinosil, in a homecoming of sorts, overwhelmed Czech Petr Korda 6-1 6-2 in the final of the $475,000 Czech Indoor Open on Sunday.
The 23-year-old German, who was born near here in Olomouc and emigrated to Germany when he was 14, took control of the match from the beginning, keeping Korda off balance with his booming serve and crisp groundstrokes.
As was the case all week, Prinosil used his deft return of service as an offensive weapon, seizing on both break points he had to take the first set in just 22 minutes.
It was more of the same in the second set, with world number 49 Korda taking more chances, but failing to unsettle the German, who was playing in only his second final on the tour after he won in Newport last year.
Korda was on the verge of breaking Prinosil in the fourth game, but the world number 58 blasted four straight service winners to take the game, and then ripped two crosscourt forehands to break in the fifth and seventh games in a match that lasted just 50 minutes.  
"If someone told me I wouldn't lose a set all week, I would have said they were crazy. I don't think I have ever played this well," said Prinosil, who enjoyed straight set victories over Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek, American Todd Martin and Briton Tim Henman on his way to the final and a prize of $64,000.
Korda said: "I was a little drained from yesterday's match and he hit the ball well. The points were short, which gave me little chance to take control of the match."
Korda needed two hours late on Saturday to defeat Davis Cup team mate Martin Damm in three sets while Prinosil beat Henman in just 56 minutes.
Apple Computer Inc. will unveil Monday a new family of portable PowerBook computers to fill a critical gap in its product line.
The new PowerBook 1400 family, scheduled to be sold in mid-November with prices starting at $2,500, will feature a built-in CD-ROM drive and a bigger screen. The models are designed to appeal to small office users and students, Apple said.
Until now, the lack of a CD-ROM drive in its portables has held back Apple in competing with offerings from International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp. and Dell Computer Corp., analysts said.
The new family "isn't going to put them in the leadership role, but it's going to get them back in the game," said Bruce Steven, an analyst at market researcher International Data Corp.
Apple said it also plans to introduce another new series of PowerBooks in the first half of the 1997 with more advanced multimedia and communication capabilities. The company did not release any more specifications.
Apple has been scrambling to retool the PowerBook line. The predecessor to the new model, the PowerBook 5300, was recalled last spring because of several defects including a faulty AC power connector and a display casing that could easily crack.
The PowerBook 1400 will replace that family. The new machines will be based on a mid-range PowerPC microprocessor.
The faster microprocessor, the CD-ROM drive and bigger screen make the 1400 comparable in price and performance to top-selling models from other vendors, but the 1400 will have a tough time competing with low-priced offerings from second-tier PC manufacturers, Steven said.
Based on the memory, screen options and disk-drive size, the 1400 models will sell for an estimated $2,500 to $4,000 retail in the United States, an Apple spokeswoman said.
The entry-level model will not have the internal CD-ROM drive, she said.
Although the machines will go on sale in mid-November, there will be a limited supply on some models until after the New Year, she said.
Canada's six biggest banks are poised for a further round of buoyant profits when they begin reporting third-quarter earnings Tuesday, setting the stage for a third consecutive record year, analysts said.
An improved interest rate picture, higher investment banking and dealing revenues and better loan quality are expected to drive profits in the third quarter ended July 31.
On average, earnings for the so-called Big Six are expected to be 15 percent to 20 percent higher than the third quarter of last year, analysts said.
"I would expect more sectors of the banks to be more profitable than they were in the corresponding quarter of last year," said Roy Palmer, an analyst with TD Securities.
Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada's third- and fourth-largest banks, respectively, kick off the earnings parade on Tuesday.
Canada's fifth-biggest bank, Toronto-Dominion Bank, and the smallest, National Bank of Canada, report on Thursday.
The country's top two banks, Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, are scheduled to deliver their results Sept. 5.
Despite a recent downturn in financial markets, analysts said securities earnings should be stronger than last year. Canada's brokerage industry is dominated by subsidiaries of the countries major banks.
The banks are also expected to benefit from lower loan losses as the industry continues to rebound from disastrous loans in commercial real estate, which collapsed in the late 1980's.
Despite the correction in stocks earlier this summer, bank stocks have remained strong performers. Lower Canadian interest rates have helped push bank stock prices to all-time highs on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
"I think that if the combination of strong profitability couples up with lower interest rates, then it probably will set the backdrop for higher share prices," said Susan Cohen, an analyst with Deacon Capital Corp.
Analysts said they do not expect any of the banks to raise their dividends during the reporting period.
But the string of record bank profits are expected to yield dividend hikes at the end of the fiscal year.
The big banks are on track for a third straight year of record annual profits. The group rang up a combined profit of C$5.17 billion in fiscal 1995 ended Oct. 31, up from C$4.25 billion a year earlier.
As for 1997, Palmer said he expects a modest increase in profits.
"Investment banking is a cyclical business. It may tail off a bit, but there is no sign of a recession yet, so I would think we could get modestly higher earnings next year," he said.
Bank of Montreal is expected to report a third-quarter profit of 97 cents Canadian (70.8 cents) per share, up from 93 cents Canadian (67.9 cents) per share a year ago, according to figures supplied by the International Brokers Estimates Service.
Scotiabank's earnings are seen climbing to C$1 (73 cents) per share in the third quarter, up from 86 cents Canadian (62.8 cents) a share.
Toronto-Dominion Bank is expected to post a 72 cents Canadian (52.5 cents) per share profit, up slightly from 71 cents Canadian (51.8 cents) per share in the third quarter of 1995.
National Bank's third quarter earnings are forecast to rise to 41 cents Canadian (29.9 cents) per share from 33 cents (24.1 cents) Canadian a share a year earlier.
CIBC's third quarter results are pegged at C$1.42 ($1.04) a share compared to last year's C$1.13 ($82 cents) per share.
Royal Bank of Canada is seen improving to 96 cents Canadian (70 cents) a share in the third quarter, up from 88 cents Canadian (64.2 cents) per share a year earlier.
Far from the hoopla of the U.S. presidential race, Jack Kemp's youngest son, Jimmy, has been tossing footballs on Canada's windswept prairie and relishing his relative anonymity.
To football fans in this small western Canada city, Kemp is better known as the quarterback of their beloved Saskatchewan Roughriders than the son of the American Republican vice-presidential candidate.
"It's nice to have your own identity. Up here I'm a Roughriders quarterback and not Jack Kemp's son. I'm proud of my dad, but it's great to be in Canada," Kemp, 25, told Reuters during a recent interview at a local sports pub.
The well-mannered, cherub-faced Kemp is finishing his third year in the Canadian Football League. He was traded to the Regina team last August after stints with the Montreal Alouettes and the now-defunct San Antonio Texans and Sacramento Gold Miners.
As the Nov. 5 election nears, Kemp said he does not get too bothered about his high-profile father. The local press has pretty much left that part of his life private.
"Kemp Just a Normal Guy," the Regina Leader-Post newspaper said in a story about the young quarterback when he arrived in town.
Before going to Saskatchewan, Kemp joined his family at the Republican convention in San Diego and pondered quitting football to work on his dad's campaign. But the elder Kemp, a former American Football League quarterback who tried out for the CFL's Calgary Stampeders in 1958, urged his son to continue playing.
"We prayed and talked about it and my dad wanted me to take this opportunity that has been given to me," said Kemp, who has since enjoyed some success with Saskatchewan.
A back-up when he arrived in Regina, Kemp was forced into the spotlight after the club's other quarterbacks fell to injuries.
Kemp had the best game of his career this month, passing for three touchdowns in a come-from-behind win against Hamilton. But the team struggled this year and failed to make the playoffs.
"I think I'm good enough to start in this league. I don't think I'm a great quarterback right now, but I need to play more and go through a training camp," he said.
Jack Kemp has kept a close eye on his son's football career. He flew to Canada three times this season when Jimmy played for Montreal and they talk frequently about football over the telephone.
"He's incredibly encouraging. Even to the point that it gets on my nerves sometimes because he is a very proud father and he thinks anything that I do is great," the younger Kemp said.
Despite living on the Canadian prairies, Kemp keeps tabs on his father's campaign. He watched the vice presdential debate on CNN and catches the programme "This Week With David Brinkley" before a Sunday game.
He said he did not have much faith in opinion polls that show the Bob Dole/Jack Kemp ticket lagging far behind the Democratic team of President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore.
"I think people can change their minds easily and I think the support for Clinton is soft. I guess it doesn't look good, but I think they've got a chance," Kemp said.
Kemp does not plan to follow his father into politics, but he does not rule out getting involved at the local level.
"I'm not sure my dad was interested in politics when he was 25. My brother (Jeff) is probably more of a politican than I am, but I do care about the issues," he said.
At least 24 soldiers and leftist rebels died in fierce fighting in three provinces of Colombia over the weekend, military sources said on Sunday.
The bloodiest clashes took place on Saturday in the conflict-torn region of Uraba, a banana-growing area in northwest Colombia where guerrillas and right-wing paramilitary groups have traditionally fought for control of lucrative contraband routes.
An army spokesman said 10 soldiers and eight Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) insurgents died in battles there. Gen. Rito Alejo said intensive counterinsurgency operations continued on Sunday.
Elsewhere, in southwestern Huila province the FARC, Colombia's largest and oldest guerrilla force, dynamited a military convoy, killing four soldiers. And in firefights in northeastern Norte de Santander province, one soldier and one FARC rebel died early on Sunday, military sources said.
In the Caribbean port city of Barranquilla, four suspected rebels were injured when their clandestine bomb-making factory exploded.
The latest wave of deaths comes against the backdrop of what military experts say is the worst guerrilla violence in more than three decades of armed uprising.
The rebels unleashed their new offensive on Aug. 30 when they overran a military base in southern Colombia, killing 27 soldiers and taking at least 60 prisoner.
The FARC is still holding the troops and in its latest communique issued over the weekend repeated accusations that the army was planning to rescue the captives by force, thereby putting their lives at risk.
The rebel force said it has a leaked military document proving its allegations and added the army was planning to try the soldiers for cowardice once they were released -- claims denied by Interior Minister Horacio Serpa on Sunday.
While the current guerrilla offensive has led many defence analysts to suggest the situation has slipped out of control of the military, the government has been buoyed by news of the surrender of 110 fighters from the People's Liberation Army (EPL), Colombia's third-largest guerrilla force.
The Maoist-inspired rebels handed over their weapons to the military on Saturday in a rural zone of northern Cordoba province.
China has tried to put new pressure on Taiwan to boost economic ties, courting the island's businessmen with an announcement of rules on direct shipping links, analysts said on Sunday.
But they said Beijing remained far from its goal of securing direct shipping, banned by the rival Nationalist government of Taiwan.
"From what we have seen, this already has put some pressure on the Taiwan authorities," said Fan Xizhou, head of the Taiwan Research Institute at Xiamen University.
"This could help stabilise economic ties but more practical steps are needed," he said, speaking by telephone from the southeastern port city that would likely benefit from any direct shipping links.
Beijing, which views the island as a renegade province, unilaterally announced last week a series of regulations on direct shipping links, giving its blue print for future trade.
Taiwan's Nationalist government has banned direct air and shipping links with China since 1949 when Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops lost the Chinese civil war to the communists and fled to the island.
With tensions easing since the late 1980s, civilian aircraft and vessels have skirted the ban by stopping over in a third country or territory such as the British colony of Hong Kong or Portuguese-run Macau.
Taiwanese businessmen, who have poured over $20 billion into China, are eager for direct transport links, but Taiwanese authorities have been reluctant to lift the ban.
The latest news fuelled hopes among many of Taiwan's businessmen that some of the restrictions might be eased, and it briefly buoyed shipping stocks on the Taipei bourse.
The Nationalists, who say they are committed to eventual reunification with China, see direct transport links as their last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
China said that direct shipping would be purely a domestic matter, specifying that only Taiwanese or Chinese companies -- or joint ventures including one side or the other -- would be allowed to conduct business on the routes.
"The documents define clearly that direct cargo transport between harbours on the Chinese mainland and Taiwan is regarded as domestic transportation under special management," the official Xinhua news agency said.
They also make no mention of the role that Taiwan authorities would play, saying only that all companies engaged in the trade would need Beijing's permission.
Taiwan has set its own formula for future links but it wants to limit the trade to foreign registered companies through a so-called "offshore" southern port.
Beijing's tactics echo those applied to the British colony of Hong Kong, where it has tried to lure companies with substantial business interests in China to do its bidding politically while it engages in political arm-wrestling with the British administration.
In Hong Kong, at least, those tactics have been highly successful as many of the same tycoons who once courted the British administration have turned to Beijing to look for economic favours in return for their political support.
Whether that works with Taiwan remains to be seen.
"The new shipping rules were clearly designed to step up the pressure on Taiwan," said a Western diplomat.
"But if Taiwan doesn't agree, it's all empty talk."
China on Sunday used a Long March 2D rocket to fire a scientific research satellite into orbit from a base in the remote northwestern province of Gansu, the Xinhua news agency said.
The successful launch of the remote-sensing satellite followed a string of setbacks for the Chinese space industry that have sent insurance premiums for commercial launches soaring.
"The satellite went smoothly into orbit and all instruments aboard are operating well," Xinhua said.
The launch of the satellite, which is designed to spend 15 days in orbit before returning to earth for retrieval, was the third successfully completed by the two-stage, liquid-fuelled Long March 2D rocket, the official agency said.
China's space industry, once much admired for its bargain prices and its strong track record of launch successes, has been plagued by problems in recent years.
In August, a domestic communications satellite launched aboard a Long March 3 rocket from Xichang in the southwestern province of Sichuan failed to reach its proper orbit.
In February, a Long March 3B carrying an Intelsat satellite veered wildly seconds after lift-off before exploding in mid-air near the Xichang space centre.
China said six people were killed, 57 injured and 80 homes destroyed in the incident. Video footage smuggled out of China by an Israeli scientist showed dozens of levelled buildings and suggested the casualties were higher.
Chinese officials said the loss of the rocket and its payload was caused by a failure of the "inertia platform" that operates the rocket's directional controls.
In January 1995, a Long March 2E rocket blew up, killing a family of six in a rain of debris and destroying the Hughes-built Apstar 2 satellite it was carrying.
The failures, although hardly exceptional in the high-risk satellite business, have sent insurance premiums for Chinese launches soaring, eroding China's price advantage over Western and Japanese competitors.
Several launch contracts with foreign companies were cancelled following the setbacks, partly because of concerns over delays due to China's launch backlog.
China says it still has a high success rate, with only a handful of the 43 launches carried out by its Long March rocket series going wrong, and officials said this month they had tightened safety measures to prevent further disasters.
Launch vehicles would now self-destruct in the case of failure and officials would ensure people living nearby are evacuated before each launch.
In July, China took a step towards restoration its reputation for reliability when it successfully launched the Apstar 1A satellite.
A son-in-law of China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping has resigned as director of the armament department of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), Chinese sources with close ties to the military said on Sunday.
Major General He Ping, husband of Deng's youngest daughter Deng Rong, quit the post recently after his hopes for promotion were dashed, one source said.
"He Ping was unhappy... He wanted to become deputy chief of general staff, but the Central Military Commission would only make him assistant chief of general staff initially," the source, who requested anonymity, told Reuters.
The assistant chief of general staff is one rank below the deputy chief of general staff.
Another source said a replacement had been named to succeed He Ping as director of the armament department, which supplies equipment to the three million-strong PLA.
The commission's refusal to give Deng's son-in-law the post he wanted was not so much a blow to the first family as it was a boost to the position of Communist Party boss Jiang Zemin.
"It was not so much as a challenge to Deng Xiaoping. Rather, it was a sign that Jiang Zemin is now more powerful," the second source said.
The first source agreed. "Jiang Zemin does not have to do everything Deng Xiaoping says," the source said of the commission's decision not to promote He Ping to deputy chief of general staff.
Jiang, who is chairman of the commission, has moved in recent years to shore up his position by appointing allies to key military positions and shrug off Deng's shadow.
Deng, 92, no longer holds any office but remains highly influential. He has not been seen in public since early 1994.
The paramount leader vouched for his son-in-law, whose company was alleged to have been involved in the smuggling of the biggest haul of automatic weapons in U.S. history.
"Deng Xiaoping spoke. He said: 'It was not He Ping's fault'... He Ping does not have any more problems," the first source said of the arms smuggling scandal.
"It was a trap by the United States," the source said of the arms seizure. Many communist officials harbour deep suspicions of the United States and the view that the arms seizure was a U.S. conspiracy to undermine China.
China's two top government-run arms merchants, Polytechnologies Ltd and China North Industries Corp (Norinco), have rejected U.S. charges they were involved in the scandal.
He Ping is president of Poly Group, which is owned by the PLA's armament department. Poly Group subsidiary Polytechnologies is a joint venture with China's flagship multinational China International Trust and Investment Co and headed by Wang Jun, son of a late vice-president and close associate of Deng.
Norinco is a civilian organisation that has no direct relationship with the army but supplies it with arms.
In March, U.S. federal agents seized a shipment of 2,000 AK-47 fully automatic machine guns and 4,000 ammunition magazines, with a street value of more than $4 million.
U.S. agents arrested at least seven people, including executives of Norinco, in May and charged them with involvement in the ring.
The seizure was the culmination of a 16-month investigation of senior officials, based in both the United States and China, of Norinco and Polytechnologies.
The suspects had offered to sell much more powerful weapons to undercover agents, including mortars, rocket launchers, machineguns and a surface-to-air missile, U.S. officials have said.
Chinese communities across the globe will soon have their very own high-society magazine, rivalling the standards of glamour publications such as Cosmopolitan and Vanity Fair.
Imagine a world-class magazine which combines the flair and colour visuals of the U.S. Architectural Digest and the  New York Times magazine. None of it is in English but in Chinese. "The Chinese" will hit the newsstands on November 1.
With editorial operations based in Hong Kong, the magazine is owned by Thailand-based M. China International and Manager Media Group, which publish Asia Inc. monthly and the daily Asia Times in English.
The group's chairman, Sondhi Limthongul, a Thai with third generation Chinese ancestry, is extending his reach to rich ethnic Chinese readers and to the regional magazine sector.
The publication, with a launch circulation target of 56,000 copies, comes at a time of ballooning interest, fuelled by the sudden growth of China itself, in the diaspora of overseas Chinese communities, from Southeast Asia to New York and Los Angeles, to London, Paris and Amsterdam.
A rash of books has been published lately on this powerful diaspora of Chinese, many of whom descend from merchants who migrated from China centuries ago and who, together with more recent migrants, form a "bamboo network" of almost 60 million people.
"A lot of Chinese today are at the cutting edge of many industries and want a magazine to rediscover ourselves, to tell our own story in our own words, in our own pictures," editorial director Liu Heung Shing said.
Hong Kong-born Liu, a Pulitzer prize-winning former wire service photographer acclaimed for his photo coverage of China, Russia, India, is the magazine's driving force.
"I think many people like me feel ashamed when they pick up a Chinese magazine, because it's never quite there," said Liu.
"There's nothing really to buy. Just political magazines for dissidents. When you read them it's frustrating. The news is always sandwiched in between lots of half-truths," he said.
The publication targets a niche of well-heeled Chinese professionals or company owners, aged 28 to 50, mainly overseas educated, with an annual personal income of at least US$120,000 or a household income of at least $150,000.
"Ethnic Chinese will form the most powerful network of entrepreneurs in the world in the next decade. Fifty-four million ethnic Chinese worldwide, with assets of more than one trillion (dollars) are the most successful entrepreneurs in the world," writes John Naisbitt, author of a recent book, Megatrends Asia.
Features on the rich and famous personalities such as high-flying socialite David Tang, actress Gong Li, publisher and entrepreneur Jimmy Lai, as well as up-and-coming Chinese like Shanghai catwalk model Yao Shuyi, will be the magazine's staple diet.
It will be illustrated by bold colour visuals and advertisements for the flashy, expensive brand names for which Chinese around the world have a passion.
The Chinese diaspora forms powerful business networks, bonded by a unique sense of being Chinese even if not citizens of a Chinese state.
Hundreds of of thousands of ethnic Chinese have returned to East Asia from other parts of the world in recent years to take advantage of the unique economic boom powering the region.
The magazine intends to be apolitical. "The aim is to rediscover ourselves, without any political context," said Liu.
But it will spotlight and probe Chinese personalities in politics, be they in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong or in the diaspora overseas. "There is a Chinese sense and sensibility which has nothing to do with politics -- how they view the notion of the people called 'the Chinese'," said Liu.
"We want personalities rather than polemics. Be it Singapore's leader Lee Kuan Yew or an American Chinese running for governor in a U.S. state."
The English title is The Chinese. The Chinese title is the character "Zhong" which means "centre", the first character of "Zhong Guo" or "Middle Kingdom", one of China's names. The word derives from an ancient pictogram of an arrow piercing a target.
By using the simple word "zhong" for Chinese, the publishers avoid political connotations that would associate Chinese people with a specific territory.
Can the idea make money? Is there really a niche for such a publication in the cut-throat international magazines market?
"It's a competitive environment, but advertisers have now come to the idea that there is this group of people who are high income earners, clearly part of this fast-emerging economic community in Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia and elsewhere.
"If you look at Vogue, Esquire or others, these are giants with a strong appeal to advertisers. But Chinese language publishing is still a virgin market," Liu said.
The choice of Singapore for the listing of China's big oil and chemicals trader was at least partly a political decision, Chinese officials and foreign securities analysts said.
They said that close ties between China and Singapore helped in the choice of the island state for the proposed offer of Sinochem's shares.
"The decision to list in Singapore was partly due to good relations between China and Singapore," said Fu Yong, chairman of Sinochem Asia Holdings, the Sinochem arm which could be listed in Singapore.
"Singapore is also a stable and prosperous environment," he told securities analysts and reporters invited to the company's headquarters.
So far, Hong Kong has attracted the bulk of the foreign listings of Chinese companies.
Sinochem, whose full name is China National Chemicals Import and Export Corp, is a major state trading company that has used some of the cash from its lucrative trading operations to expand into numerous new businesses.
Under the proposed stock offer, currently under review by the Singapore bourse, Sinochem would place only some of its Asian trading operations -- including those in Singapore -- into the listed company.
It has not said how many shares would be offered or how much money might be raised.
Securities analysts said they were unsure how much profit could be expected from the operations in the listed company. But they added that the parent firm clearly had the financial clout to list assets on any of a number of foreign stock exchanges.
Sinochem's trading turnover swelled to $18.21 billion last year from $14.98 billion in 1994.
Company officials said the firm controls 40 percent of all of China's crude oil imports and has a 50 percent share of the company that accounts for the remainder.
It owns a share of a big joint venture oil refinery in the northeast city of Dalian, has a newly formed insurance joint venture with Manufacturers Life of Canada and has taken a stake in China's fledgling second telephone network.
It is now a major real estate holder, having splashed out with 700 million yuan ($84 million) to build its Beijing headquarters, and it is part owner of an 88-storey commercial tower being built in Shanghai.
Company officials hinted strongly that further stock offerings were to be expected -- most likely in Hong Kong -- if the Singapore listing went smoothly.
Singapore has become a model of sorts for China's vision of the future, according to Western diplomats.
It has raised living standards through rapid economic development while keeping tight political controls, they said.
Singapore has carefully cultivated political and economic ties with China since diplomatic links were forged in 1990. It has pushed hard to make a success of its flagship project in China -- a big industrial park in the eastern city of Suzhou.
If Sinochem's listing proposal obtains final approval, it would not be the only such Chinese state company to offer shares in Singapore as several China-linked firms have already listed.
Fellow Chinese company Guangzhou Investment -- the Hong Kong-listed investment arm of the southern city of Guangzhou -- is also looking to Singapore.
Sinochem said that Singapore's key role in the Asian oil refining and trading business was also a factor in its choice as the place of listing.
Securities analysts said that Sinochem probably would get a better price for the shares in Singapore than in Hong Kong.
But the analysts noted that strong political ties helped gain support from Beijing.
"In this case, politics clearly played a role," said a Singapore-based analyst.
Loewen Group Inc., the target of a $2.9 billion hostile bid by rival Service Corp. International is letting state authorities help mount its takeover defense.
So far, seven states, stretching from Hawaii to Pennsylvania, have launched antitrust investigations into the proposed transaction that would unite the two largest funeral service companies in North America, and Loewen has been quick to publicize their probes.
It is a defense strategy that has helped thwart other takeovers and mergers as states grow more more aggressive in challenging large transactions.
"The states are serious. Many of them have become quite knowledgable," said Dennis Yao, a former member of the Federal Trade Commission and now an antitrust expert at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
But while state probes can certainly cause trouble for a friendly or hostile takeover, merger and antitrust experts said those investigations have rarely killed a deal.
"As a defense, it's got limited usage. It's hard to guarantee" that it will be effective, said Steven Wolitzer, co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Lehman Brothers.
Instead, the probes tend to be most successful when the states team up with federal agencies to fight a deal. In the Loewen case, the proposed transaction also is being investigated by a Canadian agency.
Early this year, state authorities were credited with helping to scuttle toymaker Mattel Inc.'s unsolicited bid for rival Hasbro Inc.
And, in April, state and federal complaints about antitrust implications of a friendly merger between drugstore giants Rite Aid Corp. and Revco D.S. Inc. led to the collapse of that deal.
States typically become involved in mergers that would impact consumers, such as in the retail or banking sectors.
Since rejecting Service Corp.'s bid, Loewen has used the state probes as part of its defense against the unwanted bid. Last Monday, Vancouver-based funeral services company announced that Pennsylvania was the latest state to launch an investigation of the proposed deal.
Pennsylvania officials said they had been unaware that Loewen had issued a news release about its probe.
"Loewen believes that the genie is out of the bottle in terms of government interest and there certainly is a precedent of attorney generals' looking at the situation and raising concerns, which ultimately derail those kinds of offers," said a spokesman for Loewen, adding that the company has been surprised by the level of state interest.
Loewen also has filed a federal antitrust lawsuit against Service Corp.
For its part, Service Corp. has rejected the antitrust argument and said that any potential problem could be resolved by divesting controversial properties.
Industry experts estimate a combined Service Corp-Loewen would hold a 10 percent market share in the highly fragmented industry.
Pennyslvania, California and New York are considered the most aggressive states in challenging mergers.
Pennsylvania has stepped up its merger probes since 1994 and so far has investigated 17 transactions this year compared with 13 in 1995 and far fewer in the merger boom of the 1980s, said Carl Hisiro, head of the antitrust section at the Pennsylvania attorney general's office.
Merger experts also said that state attention to big mergers typically intensifies in an election year, when officials are trying to convince voters that they are committed to protecting public interest.
The stock of Vantive Corp. plunged as much as 24 percent Friday after the software company said it expects slowing revenue growth in the next two quarters because of a shortage of sales staff.
The warning came one day after the company reported better than expected third-quarter earnings.
Vantive, based in Santa Clara, Calif., lost $9.25 to close at $31.50 on Nasdaq trading of 4.5 million shares.
Vantive writes software that helps big companies, such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Motorola Inc., find and keep track of customers and their requests.
In the past few quarters, Vantive's revenue has more than doubled each time on increasing demand for its customer-service products.
In the third quarter ended Sept. 30, the company's income jumped five-fold to $3.17 million, or 12 cents a share, from $632,000, or 3 cents, a year ago.
Wall Street had expected Vantive to earn 7 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks analyst forecasts.
Third-quarter revenue more than doubled to $11.1 million from $4.29 million on strong software sales and service contracts, the company said.
In a conference call with analysts, however, Vantive executives said revenue in the its next two quarters will be about flat to slightly higher compared with the third. The company doesn't have enough qualified sales and marketing staff to sell its products, the company said.
"We believe most sequential growth for 1996 has already occurred," Kathleen Murphy, Vantive's chief financial officer, told the analysts.
The forecast caught Wall Street by surprise, since the firm had been expected to report continued revenue leaps.
Still, most said the forecast isn't a sign of extended tough times for Vantive.
"Even if sequential growth in the fourth and first quarter is flat, that (revenue) would be double what it was last year," in the same quarter, said Ed Bierdeman, an analyst for Dakin Securities.
Murphy said the company will concentrate on expanding and training its sales and support staff in the coming quarters. It takes about six months to train new sales people, so the new staff will not be effective until the second quarter of 1997.
The 1,400 staff of ailing French regional airline Air Liberte, under bankruptcy protection, on Sunday published a full-page newspaper advert demanding to get a look at the takeover bids made to the administrators.
"How is it possible that a company which has been fighting with succes for eight years to improve the quality of air transport could disappear today," staff said in an "open letter" advert in the Journal du Dimanche main French Sunday paper.
British Airways Plc, Richard Branson's Brussels-based Virgin Express, a consortium headed by Nouvelles Frontieres chairman Jacques Maillot, and commercial pilot Fernand Denan have made offers for Air Liberte.
The commercial court of Creteil, a southeastern Paris suburb, is expected to decide early this week which of the options will be pursued. Air Liberte went into administration on September 26 with debts of about 1.5 billion francs.
In the advert paid by the airline's works council, staff of Air Liberte (Air Liberty in English) blamed the French authorities for much of the companies' woes.
"By multiplying the obstacles to its development -- difficulties to obtain slots, difficulties to get ground handling services equal to those of the state airline (Air France /Air Inter ) -- the public authorities have pushed Air Liberte into a dead-end," the advert read.
They also blamed certain Air Liberte shareholders for "abadoning" the company at the eve of a recapitalisation and said they feared the final solution would be liquidation.
"We staff of Air Liberte, we cannot accept anymore to lose our jobs, put our families in distress nor to interrupt the service we have to give to passengers," the advert said.
Staff asked in the advert it wanted to see the bids made for the company and was ready to take its responsibilities -- ousted chairman and founder Lotfi Belhassine had been preparing a last-minute capital increase in which staff would put six weeks' pay into the company.
"Today, some people seem to wish the liquidation of Air Liberte rather than the arrival of a European company. Who has interest in seeing the return of a monopoly?," the ad asked in a reference to political unease about BA's bid.
British Airways plans to pay 25 million francs for Air Liberte and aims to merge it with its French TAT unit. The British airline said on Friday it had plans to spend 440 million francs on getting Air Liberte back into profit in three years.
Air Liberte owns about a quarter of the landing and take-off slots at Orly airport, Paris' second airport specialising in domestic flights, and this would dramatically boost BA's presence and competitiveness in France.
Air Liberte lost 650 million francs in the first nine months of 1996 due to an air fare war and insufficient passenger numbers. Since the start of the year the main French domestic routes are open to competition ahead of full liberalistaion in 1997. Air Liberte and other regional group AOM have been fighting to take market share from former monopolist Air Inter.
Jacques Maillot, also chairman of smaller airline Corsair, counts the Rivaud bank, travel group Club Mediterranee and Royal Air Maroc in his consortium.
Maillot has not given financial details but he plans to merge Air Liberte with AOM, which is for sale.
The Rivaud bank, a very secretive and influential financial group, is headed since last week by entrepreneur Vincent Bollore and the bank is close to the ruling RPR party.
The Le Monde newspaper said last week Prime Minister Alain Juppe was pushing for a domestic buyer for Air Liberte.
The 1,400 staff of ailing French regional airline Air Liberte, which is under bankruptcy protection, published a full-page newspaper advert on Sunday demanding that they be shown takeover bids made to the administrators.
"How is it possible that a company which has been fighting with success for eight years to improve the quality of air transport could disappear today," staff said in an "open letter" advert in the Journal du Dimanche main French Sunday paper.
British Airways Plc, Richard Branson's Brussels-based Virgin Express, a consortium headed by Nouvelles Frontieres chairman Jacques Maillot, and commercial pilot Fernand Denan have made offers for Air Liberte.
The commercial court of Creteil, a southeastern Paris suburb, is expected to decide early this week which of the options will be pursued. Air Liberte went into administration on September 26 with debts of about 1.5 billion francs.
In an ad paid for by the airline's works council, staff of Air Liberte blamed the French authorities for much of the companies' woes.
"By multiplying the obstacles to its development -- difficulties to obtain slots, difficulties to get ground handling services equal to those of the state airline (Air France /Air Inter ) -- the public authorities have pushed Air Liberte into a dead-end," the advert read.
They also blamed certain Air Liberte shareholders for "abandoning" the company at the eve of a recapitalisation and said they feared the final solution would be liquidation.
"We staff of Air Liberte, we cannot accept anymore to lose our jobs, put our families in distress nor to interrupt the service we have to give to passengers," the advert said.
The ad said the staff wanted to see the bids made for the company and were ready to take on responsibilities.
Ousted chairman and founder Lotfi Belhassine had been preparing a last-minute capital increase in which staff would put six weeks' pay into the company.
"Today, some people seem to wish the liquidation of Air Liberte rather than the arrival of a European company. Who has interest in seeing the return of a monopoly?," the ad asked.
British Airways plans to pay 25 million francs for Air Liberte and aims to merge it with its French TAT unit. The British airline said on Friday it had plans to spend 440 million francs on getting Air Liberte back into profit in three years.
Air Liberte owns about a quarter of the landing and take-off slots at Orly airport, Paris' second airport specialising in domestic flights, and this would dramatically boost BA's presence and competitiveness in France.
Air Liberte lost 650 million francs in the first nine months of 1996 due to an air fare war and insufficient passenger numbers. Since the start of the year the main French domestic routes are open to competition ahead of full liberalistaion in 1997. Air Liberte and other regional group AOM have been fighting to take market share from former monopolist Air Inter.
Jacques Maillot, also chairman of smaller airline Corsair, counts the Rivaud bank, travel group Club Mediterranee and Royal Air Maroc in his consortium.
Maillot has not given financial details but he plans to merge Air Liberte with AOM, which is for sale.
The Rivaud bank, a very secretive and influential financial group, is headed since last week by entrepreneur Vincent Bollore and the bank is close to the ruling RPR party.
The Le Monde newspaper said last week Prime Minister Alain Juppe was pushing for a domestic buyer for Air Liberte.
Poor metal prices hurt earnings at Canadian base metal miners in the third quarter, with profits down at Inco Ltd., Falconbridge Ltd. and Cominco Ltd.
Nickel giant Inco said on Monday its third-quarter profit fell to $29 million, or 19 cents a share, from $44 million or 33 cents a share a year earlier. The earnings per share for the 1996 third quarter were worse due partly to shares issued in the takeover of Diamond Fields Resources Inc.
Inco's rival, Falconbridge, earned $30.1 million ($22.3 million) or C17 cents (13 cents) a share excluding extraordinary gains, a steep drop from last year's C$84.5 million ($62.7 million) or C47 cents (35 cents) a share.
Vancouver-based Cominco, which produces zinc, nickel, copper and other metals, said earnings were C$5.2 million ($3.86 million) or C6 cents (4 cents) a share, down sharply from C$22 million ($16.4 million) or C25 cents (19 cents) a share last year.
All three cited copper as the main culprit.
The average price for copper on the London Metal Exchange in the third quarter was 90 cents a pound, vs. $1.37 at the same time last year, Cominco said.
The copper price plummeted in June after a copper scandal at Japanese metals giant Sumitomo Corp. The red metal has just begun to regain some of its strength.
All three companies also pointed to lower nickel prices as a major source of weakness in the third quarter.
The average nickel price for the quarter fell to $3.26 a pound from $3.92 at the same time last year, Cominco said.
Analysts said investors were now taking advantage of the lower stock prices to buy more shares.
Inco rose C$1.15 to C$41.90 in Toronto and by $1 to $31.125 in New York in late afternoon trading on Monday. Falconbridge rose 75 cents to C$29 ($21.48) and Cominco gained C45 cents to C$30.65 ($22.70) on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Copper and nickel have strengthened recently, putting a shine on the fourth quarter, said mining analyst Tony Hayes at the Credifinance brokerage.
"I'm astounded that copper has not already risen. It will go very rapidly when it does move."
Shares in Canadian brewing and sports firm Molson Cos. Ltd. sank on Monday after its Molson Breweries unit lost the rights to brew Coors Light, Canada's top-selling light beer, in a dispute with Adolph Coors Co..
Investors pounded Molson's stock after an arbitration panel ruled late Friday that Molson reliquished its right to brew and sell Coors products in April 1993 when Miller Brewing Co. acquired a stake in the Canadian brewer.
Molson class A stock closed down C$0.75 at C$20.15 on the Toronto Stock Exchange after earlier sinking to C$19.50, just shy of its 52-week low.
"It was a pretty severe ruling and I think it surprised Molson, surprised Coors and, frankly, surprised the street," said Mike Palmer, an analyst with Loewen, Ondaatje, McCutcheon Ltd.
The panel said Molson breached its licensing agreement with Coors by allowing Miller, a unit of Philip Morris Cos. Inc., to buy a 20 percent stake without Coors' consent.
Molson Breweries is also owned 40 percent each by Molson Cos and Australia's Foster's Brewing Group Ltd..
The panel ordered Molson to pay Coors all the profits it earned from selling Coors beer since 1993, an amount that has yet to be determined.
Coors brands produced by Molson -- Coors Light and Original Coors -- account for 8 percent of its sales volume. Coors Light is the dominant light beer in Canada, commanding a 5 to 5.5 percent share of the beer market.
Analysts said Molson can ill afford to lose a profitable brand as it battles rival Labatt Brewing Co. Ltd. in a domestic beer market that has been flat for several years.
"You start losing volume and it has a significant impact on your profits. It's very important to Molson to negotiate a deal with Coors," said Palmer.
While Molson officials said they are willing to negotiate a new licensing agreement, Coors was keeping its options open.
"What we need to do is go through the panel's ruling and understand all of the aspects of the ruling and then analyze what our options are," said Coors spokesman Jon Goldman.
He declined to outline Coors' options for the Canadian market. But analysts speculated that Coors could cut a richer deal with Molson, ship product directly to Canada or buy a local brewer to produce Coors in Canada.
"The easiest option is to negotiate a deal with Molson. They've had a big win here so it's time to kiss and make up," said Palmer.
If there is a new deal, Coors will likely seek more control over its brands and higher royalties from Molson, said Barry Joslin, Molson's vice-president of corporate affairs.
If Molson cannot negotiate a new licensing agreement, Joslin said the brewer would consider its options, including launching a new light brand.
Mobil Corp, widely credited with the most aggressive cost-cutting program of all U.S. oil companies, is not resting on its laurels.
The Fairfax, Va-based oil giant told analysts on Monday that it has implemented $760 million of cost savings so far this year as part of a $1.3 billion plan and expects the remaining $540 million to fall into place soon.
Furthermore, Mobil also expects to save at least another $300 million on an annualized basis by 1999 by streamlining purchases of everything from raw materials to computers.  
Mobil discussed cost-savings details after it posted a 10 percent decline in third quarter operating income due to a host of unfavorable conditions, including weak refining and marketing profits. A company spokesman confirmed the figures.
Industry analysts dismissed the earnings drop, saying Mobil's stock price had already reflected the poor industry fundamentals. Instead, Wall Street appeared more intrigued with the company's future cost-cutting plans.
"They have done an excellent job and I think they are determined to maintain the cost cutting," said Jack Aydin of McDonald &amp; Co Securities Inc.  
Some investors already have expressed concern about Mobil's ability to keep up its aggressive pace.
"People are wondering if they have squeezed everything out of the cost structure that they can and if their magic touch is over," said Smith Barney analyst James Falvey, who upgraded Mobil to a buy rating from outperform on Monday.
Chairman Lucio Noto sought to allay any concerns.
"Since we are in a very competitive industry that has significant price volatility, changes in the way we run our business are essential if we are to compete in the long term," Noto said in a news release about the company's earnings.  
Although Mobil is not expected to announce a major restructuring plan anytime soon, future savings are anticipated from purchasing and technology.
"Everybody has cut a lot of the fat and even some of the muscle," said John Parry, analyst at energy consulting firm John S. Herold Inc.
And Mobil is likely to soon start reaping benefits of its joint venture with British Petroleum Co Plc that calls for the merger of their downstream  operations in Europe.
The success of the joint venture will likely impact Mobil's plans for future savings as other firms also pursue similar pacts. Texaco Inc, Royal Dutch Shell Group and Star Enterprise are now exploring joining downstream operations. Star is a venture of Texaco and Saudi Arabia's state oil firm.
If other companies pursue such ventures and the BP pact is successful, analysts said Mobil eventually may seek a downstream partner in other parts of the world.
"I think the easy part of the cost cutting and restructuring has been announced. The key is going to be to remain on top of it," Aydin said.
International Business Machines Corp reported strong third quarter results on Monday but raised concern about the fourth quarter, sending shares on a roller-coaster ride.
IBM's third quarter earnings of $2.45 a share was just two cents above the Wall Street consensus estimate of $2.43. IBM opened off, then climbed to 135-3/8 during its analysts' call.
But analysts said comments by its chief financial officer about continuing negative impact from currency, memory prices and higher expenses dampened his otherwise bullish outlook.  
"There were some cautionary comments about fourth quarter," said Jay Stevens, a Dean Witter analyst, adding that he was revising his fourth quarter estimates.
Some analysts started cutting fourth quarter numbers after the conference call, reflecting the company's comments about a bigger currency impact, continued drop in memory chip prices and higher-than-expected fourth quarter restructuring costs.
In general, analysts said they were pleased with IBM's ongoing cost-cutting, its successful transition to new products in all its hardware areas and its investments in its future growth. Revenue growth was also better than expected.  
"I think the most impressive was the revenue growth," said Stephen Dube, a Wasserstein Perrella analyst. "It's coming from all other products except for mainframes." As expected, IBM said its mainframe revenues fell in the quarter.
Previously, IBM had expected that currency and memory chip prices would have a diminished impact on the second half.
But Monday, IBM said it could have a slightly bigger negative impact from currency rates than the $0.08 a share it saw in the third quarter and memory prices would continue to hurt its semiconductor business, comments that had a dampening effect on analysts hoping for a very strong fourth quarter.  
Analysts still expect IBM to report a strong fourth quarter, because many other products are doing well and it will also begin to see sales of its recently shipped models of its lower-cost mainframes. But they also need to account for IBM's comments that it will begin spreading out some of its mainframes sales over several quarters.
G. Richard Thoman, IBM's chief financial officer, told Wall Street that a "growing proportion" of IBM's mainframes sales are going through its computer services business, and therefore, IBM will not see the full sales in a quarter for all its machines.  
"If you sell a mainframe for $100,000 and you lease it or it's on a services contract ... rather than $100,000 at once, you have $8,000 a quarter," Thoman said in an interview, adding that this is "just an example."
Thoman buoyed analysts with news that IBM's mainframe installations, which grew 25 perent, are growing "almost back to 1980s" levels. But even with such strong customer interest, IBM's prices are still so low that revenues are still expected to decline, while mainframe profits are forecast to be hefty.
"This quarter it did not come from mainframes," said Stephen Dube, a Wasserstein Perella Securities analyst.
"Mainframes are not a growth area for them," he said. But mainframes are still IBM's second most profitable hardware product, after its AS/400 minicomputers.
The fourth quarter was also marred by a prediction that IBM will take a bigger-than-expected restructuring cost. Originally, IBM had predicted about $200 million per quarter this year, but said on Monday that it will spend an additional $100 million to $200 million in the fourth quarter.
IBM said the increase resulted from more employees taking its voluntary buyout plan in Europe in the fourth quarter.
The stock of media group Pearson closed sharply higher Monday as takeover speculation swirled on a report, which was later denied, that broadcaster BSkyB might be planning a bid in the wake of announced management changes.
Pearson shares closed 34-1/2 pence (55 cents) higher at 731p ($11.60) after earlier touching a high for the year of 745p ($11.82), as 6.7 million shares changed hands.
"The price was boosted last week by the management change but now it reflects revived bid speculation," said one analyst, referring to last week's naming of a new Pearson chief executive and chairman.
A report in the Independent newspaper said BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. has a 40 percent stake, was in the early stages of planning a bid worth more than 4 billion British pounds ($6.4 billion) in cooperation with a U.S.-based media group.
But BSkyB's chief executive, Sam Chisholm, was quoted in later editions of Murdoch's Times newspaper saying there were "no talks taking place between News Corp, BSkyB or any associated company about a bid for Pearson."
A BSkyB spokesman confirmed Chisholm had denied any such talks.
Pearson, which owns Britain's main business newspaper, the Financial Times, Penguin Books and a number of television production companies, said it did not comment on speculation.
Analysts said that although BSkyB appeared to have ruled itself out of a bid, observers felt any move on Pearson was likely to be made before new management takes control next year.
Last week Pearson appointed Marjorie Scardino to be chief executive from Jan. 1 -- the first female head of a company represented in the key FTSE 100 share index. It also named Dennis Stevenson its new chairman.
"If someone is thinking seriously about a bid, now is the time to do it. The new management hasn't arrived yet and so it would be harder to mount a defence," said one media analyst, who asked not to be identified.
But analysts said Pearson shares were now approaching the top end of their price target range for full valuation of the business and the price tag attached to speculation around BSkyB was high.
"It is touching the stratosphere at these levels," said Anthony De Larrinaga of Panmure Gordon.
The media analyst said it was difficult to put a price tag on Pearson because its diversified nature meant it could have specific attractions for a variety of bidders.
Speculation of a bid for the company last surfaced in August, when Anglo-Dutch publisher Reed-Elsevier was rumoured as a possible buyer.
After initial stock market disappointment, Scardino's appointment at Pearson was greeted with a 12 pence (19 cents) jump in the stock price on Friday as hopes emerged that she might reorganize the sprawling media company.
So far, Scardino appears to be keeping her options open, analysts said. "There is no real evidence yet that she would consider any demergers (spin-offs) and it is open to question whether such a move would bring shareholder benefit," one said.
Britain's Barclays Plc said on Monday it was in talks with U.S. group Morgan Stanley about its global custody business and banking sources confirmed the unit is up for sale.
Barclays and Morgan Stanley were coy in responding to press speculation, saying only that they are "in discussions to explore the potential for future co-operation".
The move would be another step in the consolidation of the global custody business which is becoming dominated by those banks who are willing to make the large front-end investment in systems which are necessary to later rake in fees.
Barclays' custody business has 350 to 400 staff worldwide, with some working in the Far East, but has for some time been treated as not in the bank's core business.
Securities worth some 150 billion pounds ($239.2 billion) have been placed with the unit.
In its interim results, published in August, Barclays included custody in its "Businesses in Transition" category which includes restructuring businesses in France and the United States. The category including custody made a profit of 23 million pounds in the half-year to June 30.
The report said, "Businesses in Transition primarily comprises lendings and other assets that are unlikely to be of long-term interest to the Group or that require significant restructuring."
It was not clear when the deal will be finalised but analysts said it would mark a further step in the consolidation of the global custody market.
"Consolidation is a natural if you look at the economic of the business," said John Leonard, banking analyst at Salomon Brothers. "It's a scale economy buisiness."
Leonard said that some banks had taken the decision not to invest the large sums needed to get computer systems up to scratch to be competitive.
Custody businesses range from traditional safekeeping of securities, which in Britain is dominated by Lloyds TSB and Royal Bank of Scotland, to performance measurement and stock lending.
As such, it has ceased to be the largely risk-free business it once was although risk levels are still relatively low.
"It guarantees a steady income stream but it's not totally insensitive to market volumes," Leonard added.
Analysts said Barclays has presumably decided that without further investment, the business will be too small to compete on the global stage. They expect Morgan Stanley to pay well under 100 million pounds for the business. "It could well be less than fifty million (pounds)," said one.
Finance workers' union BIFU attacked the leak of the discussions, saying staff face an uncertain future if the business was sold.
It called on the bank to "come clean" over its intentions. ($1=.6270 Pound)
Shares in Canadian brewing and sports firm Molson Cos. Ltd. sank on Monday after its Molson Breweries unit lost the rights to brew Coors Light, Canada's top-selling light beer, in a dispute with Adolph Coors Co..
Investors pounded Molson's stock after an arbitration panel ruled late Friday that Molson reliquished its right to brew and sell Coors products in April 1993 when Miller Brewing Co. acquired a stake in the Canadian brewer.
Molson class A stock closed down C$0.75 at C$20.15 on the Toronto Stock Exchange after earlier sinking to C$19.50, just shy of its 52-week low.
"It was a pretty severe ruling and I think it surprised Molson, surprised Coors and, frankly, surprised the street," said Mike Palmer, an analyst with Loewen, Ondaatje, McCutcheon Ltd.
The panel said Molson breached its licensing agreement with Coors by allowing Miller, a unit of Philip Morris Cos. Inc., to buy a 20 percent stake without Coors' consent.
Molson Breweries is also owned 40 percent each by Molson Cos and Australia's Foster's Brewing Group Ltd..
The panel ordered Molson to pay Coors all the profits it earned from selling Coors beer since 1993, an amount that has yet to be determined.
Coors brands produced by Molson -- Coors Light and Original Coors -- account for 8 percent of its sales volume. Coors Light is the dominant light beer in Canada, commanding a 5 to 5.5 percent share of the beer market.
Analysts said Molson can ill afford to lose a profitable brand as it battles rival Labatt Brewing Co. Ltd. in a domestic beer market that has been flat for several years.
"You start losing volume and it has a significant impact on your profits. It's very important to Molson to negotiate a deal with Coors," said Palmer.
While Molson officials said they are willing to negotiate a new licensing agreement, Coors was keeping its options open.
"What we need to do is go through the panel's ruling and understand all of the aspects of the ruling and then analyse what our options are," said Coors spokesman Jon Goldman.
He declined to outline Coors' options for the Canadian market. But analysts speculated that Coors could cut a richer deal with Molson, ship product directly to Canada or buy a local brewer to produce Coors in Canada.
"The easiest option is to negotiate a deal with Molson. They've had a big win here so it's time to kiss and make up," said Palmer.
If there is a new deal, Coors will likely seek more control over its brands and higher royalties from Molson, said Barry Joslin, Molson's vice-president of corporate affairs.
If Molson cannot negotiate a new licensing agreement, Joslin said the brewer would consider its options, including launching a new light brand.
Canada's largest stock exchange's key index broke through the psychological barrier of 5500 points on Monday to a new closing high of 5518 points.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's 300 Composite Index rose 25.5 points to hit 5518 points by day's end, propelled by soaring gold issues and surging oil stocks.
The 300 Index reached 5000 points on Feb. 1.
Today, "we have gone through the 5500 barrier," noted ScotiaMcLeod's senior vice-president Fred Ketchen.
Another trader said: "There seems... to be foreign interest in Canada."
Overseas investors are eyeing Canada's falling interest rates and declining deficit financing needs, analysts said.
Trading volume totalled 858 million shares valued at C$1.25 billion (US$929 million).
Advancing issues beat out declining ones 561 to 420, while 276 traded unchanged.
Nine of Toronto's 14 sub-indices gained ground, led by the heavily weighted gold sector, which rose 1.2 percent, and the oil group which jumped 1.7 percent, along with stronger base metals and media issues.
Falling groups included consumer products, conglomerates and forestry products.
Among Toronto's hot stocks were fertilizer firms. Viridian Inc. said it agreed to a friendly C$1.33 billion (US$988 million) merger with Agrium Inc.
Viridian shares jumped C$1.25 to C$17.75 on more than 4.1 million shares, while Agrium lost C$0.35 to hit C$18.55 in heavy dealings. The merger would create one of North America's largest integrated fertilizer firms.
Nickel giant Inco Ltd. jumped C$1.05 to C$41.80 in heavy trading, after it announced higher-than-expected third quarter earnings at US$0.19 a share compared to year-earlier US$0.33 a share.
Stampeder Exploration Ltd topped Toronto's most active stocks, rising C$0.10 to reach C$6.55.
Cocoa producers broadly agree on output management and have struck a compromise to unite against use of non-cocoa fats in chocolate in the European Union while accepting the change in other markets, Ivory Coast's commodities minister said on Monday.
"Europeans are rich consumers who can afford to carry on buying pure chocolate," Gauze, outgoing head of the Cocoa Producers Alliance (CPA) ministerial council, said on the sidelines of a two-day council meeting in Gabon.  
But Gauze added that world cocoa demand could rise by allowing use of vegetable fats in some countries.
"Residual markets needs dynamising," he said after palm-oil and cocoa producer Malaysia dropped its blanket acceptance of non-cocoa fat use as part of the compromise.
"Malaysia has moderated its position," he said. "It has adopted the same line as the CPA."
The ministers, who wrap up their meeting on Tuesday, were reviewing a 1993 International Cocoa Agreement and plans to cut member output by 90,000 tonnes by the year 2000.  
Gauze, current chairman of the International Cocoa Organisation Council, predicted that members would resolve differences over CPA output projections for the next three years by Tuesday.
"The differences are slight," he said after objections from Brazil, Ghana and Malaysia during preliminary talks among experts last week.
He said Malaysia had put forward a 1996/97 output proposal of 120,000 tonnes against a 130,000 tonne CPA projection. Malaysia's 1997/98 projection was 140,000 tonnes compared to the CPA's 137,000 tonne forecast.  
Gauze said Ghanaian and CPA projections for Ghana's 1996/97 output differed by only 20,000 tonnes.
"I do not want to leave here with any outstanding differences," Gauze said, adding that member output agreements were likely to be available late on Tuesday.
Gauze said efforts would continue to persuade the largest non-CPA producer Indonesia to join and to persuade Mexico to reconsider a decision to quit the alliance. Colombia would also be asked to join, he said.  
Ivory Coast, the world's top producer, has spearheaded opposition to European Union plans to allow use of up to five percent of non-cocoa fats in chocolate throughout the EU next year. It says this would cut demand for cocoa by 200,000 tonnes and harm cocoa-producing economies.
A Dutch study in September put the drop in demand at just 33,000 tonnes.  
Ministers from producing nations agreed in September at an ICCO meeting to cut output by 15,000 tonnes in 1996/97 and by 30,000 tonnes and 45,000 tonnes respectively in the two following seasons to balance world supply and demand and boost cocoa prices.
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia, hoping to boost industrial output, announced plans on Monday for lower electricity and rail transport prices, cheering energy-hungry aluminium plants but worrying Western economists.
President Boris Yeltsin's press service said Yeltsin had signed a decree at the weekend cutting wholesale electricity charges for industrial and residential customers from November 1 by an average 10 percent from their August 1 levels.
The decree also promised to rein in runaway rail transport charges, saying tariffs for transport by rail on electric locomotives would be set by the new electricity pricing rules.
Yeltsin's decree also promised to create a wholesale natural gas market by next year.
By bringing order to unruly pricing structures, the decree also aims to improve tax collection.
Privatised aluminium smelters in Russia, one of the world's largest producers, said the new rules would help them save them money as electricity and transport are two of the major costs in producing and exporting the non-ferrous metal.
But Yeltsin's decree aroused doubt from Western economists, who called it little more than a short-term way of plugging the budget deficit and unsustainable in the long run.
"Of course this makes us happy," said a representative in Moscow of the big Krasnoyarsk aluminium smelter.
But he declined to say how it would affect output.
"It's not sustainable in the long term," said a top Western economist. "Over the short term, it will reduce production costs, but it does nothing to solve nonpayments."
Boris Arlyuk, managing director of St Petersburg-based Alumconsult, said that Russia's average industrial electricity prices were already much higher than world charges.
But Russian smelters rarely pay full price, thus helping to fuel a massive non-payments cycle in which aluminium plants -- a major consumer of electricity -- owe regional utilities for supplies, who in turn owe the state unpaid taxes.
Yeltsin's decree is partly designed to break this cycle.
The decree also said gas and electricity producers would be liable for excise and profits tax on proceeds from collecting debts for their supplies, as long as these proceeds did not fall below the actual cost of producing and transmitting supplies.
That means it could become easier for utilities to collect money from aluminium producers and other industrial customers.
Arlyuk said domestic electricity tariffs vary greatly, with the Kandalaksha aluminium smelter in the European part of Russia charged the rouble equivalent of $25 per megawatt hour, and using 17 megawatt hours to produce each tonne.
But rates at the giant Bratsk smelter in Siberia were the equivalent of $6 per megawatt hour -- the same, Arlyuk said, as in big aluminium producing countries like Canada and Norway.
Bratsk, using 17.7 megawatt hours per tonne of produced aluminium, spent only $106 per tonne on electricity compared to about $425 per tonne for Kandalaksha.
Dmitry Kryukov, a utilities analyst at Renaissance Capital, said that partly privatised national power company Unified Energy System (RAO Yedinaya Energeticheskaya Sistema) would see lower revenues.
But he said its cash flow could improve since it would be taxed only when paid for deliveries, and not before.
Still, Anatoly Gamanov, head of tariffs at the aluminium producers' group Kontsern Alyuminiy, said he doubted regional utilities would be happy to receive less for their supplies.
"This is not the first time we've seen something like this, and some regional utilities may put up a fight."
UES owns 29 power plants and holds 49 percent stakes in most of the privatised "energo" regional utilities.
Electricity and rail tariffs have risen faster than the overall producers price index, prompting Kremlin officials to seek ways to give industrial producers a break.
A leading lawmaker said on Monday that Colombia would continue to be a "paradise for drug traffickers" unless Congress voted to overturn a 5-year-old ban on the extradition of drug lords and other criminals wanted abroad.
"If we don't end the culture of impunity in Colombia then we have no right to ask for international help in the fight against drugs," said Senator Luis Guillermo Giraldo.
Giraldo, a member of the ruling Liberal party but an outspoken opponent of President Ernesto Samper, proposed legislation in August that would reactivate a 1979 extradition treaty with the United States.
The legislation faces a key hurdle in the Senate on Tuesday when a 12-member constitutional committee was set to vote on whether it should be submitted to plenary for approval or thrown out altogether.
"If we don't restore our (extradition) treaty, Colombia will continue to be a paradise for drug traffickers," Giraldo said in a telephone interview with Reuters.
In the run-up to the vote in the Senate, graffiti has appeared in Cali, home to the criminal syndicate that has dominated the world's cocaine trade, threatening those who support sending Colombians to stand trial abroad.
But growing numbers of legislators appear to be increasingly swayed by the United States' argument that extradition is a vital weapon in the drug war. Moreover, some political analysts believe it may be impossible for Colombia to regain U.S. certification as an ally in the fight against drugs, withdrawn in March, unless extradition is reintroduced.
Samper, dogged by accusations that he took drug money to finance his 1994 election campaign, said on Friday he thought Giraldo's bill was poorly timed, arguing that priority should be given to a package of tougher penalties for drug crimes currently going through Congress.
Justice Minister Carlos Medellin has spoken out in favour of renewing extradition, however, and Alfonso Valdivieso, chief prosecutor and a fervent anti-drug crusader, has even called for extradition to be made retroactive -- a proposal unlikely to please those drug traffickers who surrendered to the Colombian authorities in return for lenient treatment.
While politicians, ministers and lawyers argue the merits of the move, more than 60 percent of ordinary Colombians surveyed by RCN radio in September said they opposed extradition.
Political analysts say such opposition reflected a combination of nationalistic pride and fear that renewing extradition could unleash a new campaign of bombings, kidnappings and assassinations like those led by the late drug lord Pablo Escobar in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Visiting Colombian Foreign Minister Maria Emma Mejia said on Monday she hoped to boost cooperation with Beijing to help both nations crack down on a flourishing narcotics trade.
Colombian officials said they hoped to sign an agreement with China that would increase information exchanges and strengthen police training in the fight against drugs.
"The Chinese were very clear that they very much wanted to seek cooperation in the matter of drugs," said Mejia, who is accompanying Colombian President Ernesto Samper on a three-day visit to China.
"We want to exchange knowledge in the field of fighting heroin trafficking," Mejia told reporters, adding that the rise of the heroin trade in Colombia -- infamous for its cocaine cartels -- was a relatively new development.
"Colombia knows very little about narcotics trafficking in Asia, and we have to know more, and China has to know more about narco-trafficking in South America, otherwise it will be very difficult to have a multilateral policy," Mejia said.
She did not say when she expected the proposed accord to be signed.
Samper told a news briefing Beijing had expressed support for Colombia's anti-drug efforts, but did not elaborate.
Beijing had expressed an interest in pursuing a policy not only of cracking down on drug traffickers but of preventing and treating drug addiction, Mejia said.
China's official Xinhua news agency quoted Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen as urging major drug-consuming nations to bolster their efforts to reduce domestic drug use.
"Drug-consuming countries should also shoulder heavy responsibility because the great market demand for drugs would result in widespread drug production and trafficking," Qian was quoted as saying.
Colombia's top anti-drug policeman General Rosso Jose Serrano told the briefing he did not think Colombian and Chinese drug cartels were working together to distribute heroin throughout North America.
"The Chinese mafia is the most difficult to penetrate, but as far as we know, there is no connection between Colombian and Chinese (drug traffickers)," said Serrano, who is widely credited with smashing Colombia's notorious Cali cocaine cartel.
A report by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration last month said Colombia had edged out southeast Asia's Golden Triangle region as the top supplier of high-grade heroin to the United States.
The report said 62 percent of all heroin confiscated in the United States came from Colombia.
China faces a growing problem with drug trafficking, much of it through the southwestern province of Yunnan which borders on the Golden Triangle drug production region that includes parts of Burma, Thailand and Laos.
China frequently executes people convicted of narcotics crimes and sentences many drug users to strict rehabilitation programmes.
A China-wide computer network launched by a subsidiary of the official news agency Xinhua on Monday will take Chinese businesses online and supply them with news and economic information, company officials said.
The China Wide Web (CWW) created by China Internet Corp would provide Chinese customers with online services in their own language and would give overseas subscribers a window on to the Chinese business world, company chairman Ma Yunsheng said.
"Our objective is to increase understanding of China," China Internet chief technology officer Chung-Kiu Wong told a news conference in Beijing to announce the service's inauguration.
CWW would use technology developed for the World Wide Web, part of the global Internet computer network, to supply news from international economic information providers such as Reuters Holdings Ltd and Bloomberg, Wong said.
China Internet was a Hong Kong-registered company majority-owned by China's official Xinhua news agency, Ma said. He declined to give details of the other investors in the firm.
In January, Xinhua was appointed the government regulator for foreign suppliers of economic information in China, a role that some analysts say clashes with its involvement in enterprises that supply financial and business data.
Xinhua's regulatory role and China Internet's quasi-monopoly position in the market would help boost the computer company's already bright prospects, said Harry Edelson of Edelson Technology Partners, which has a stake in China Internet.
Unlike the open-access Internet, CWW was modelled on internal company networks or "intranets", Edelson said.
"There will be a lot of real-time information available," he said. "I think there's going to be very fast growth from a zero start."
China Internet would enjoy free use of Xinhua's communications network and already had access agreements with the powerful Minstry of Posts and Telecommunications, he said.
Ma said domestic economic information would also be available through Xinhua news services and databases. He declined to say how many clients were expected to subscribe.
The Internet is viewed by some Chinese officials as a haven for pornography and political dissent but CWW would likely be a politically correct alternative.
"CWW should reflect Chinese culture," technology officer Wong said, without giving details.
CWW would build bilingual online home pages for domestic firms and foreign companies in China and would work to boost foreign understanding of the Chinese market, he said.
"If a U.S. company wants to show its wares on the Chinese Internet, we will translate it so the Chinese can understand... and vice versa," Edelson said.
HONG KONG, Oct 21 (Reuter) Cathay Pacific Airways said it has successfully handled its first load of pigs destined for breeding in China.
Cathay's in house newspaper said 300 pigs with an estimated value of HK$2.8 million were recently flown from Taiwan to Hong Kong en route for breeding farms in China. It said the eight pallets of swine were housed in two and three deck boxes specially equipped with automatic watering to keep them cool.
"As the pigs have a higher skin temperature than human beings, they are very afraid of heat. That's why we have to sprinkle water on them from time to time," Taiwanese herdsman Li Siou Tong told the newspaper.
He said the pigs were valuable breeds including Duroc, Landrace and Yorkshire which had originated in Sweden, the Netherlands nnd the United States. They are now in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen spending 45 days in quarantine before being transported all over China for breeding.
Paulo Chan, Cathay's cargo standards and performance manager, said it was the largest number of pigs yet flown by the airline.
- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Pilots in Hong Kong are becoming better connected thanks to the Internet, says the general secretary of the Hong Kong Aircrew Officers' Association, John Findlay.
The association says it is now giving each of its 700 members an e-mail address so they can stay in touch no matter where they are flying.
Findlay told Reuters in an interview that his members already find out what's happening by using a telephone modem to access the association's bulletin board. With 300 members based outside Hong Kong, the association says it's becoming increasingly popular. Committee members who are also airline pilots constantly flying all over the world also can stay in touch with union business via their laptop computers.
"We've had the bulletin board for two and half years now and its very well used. It's fairly sophisticated and updated daily so pilots can access our newsletter. It also has its other uses like a leisure forum and a 'for sale' site," Findlay said.
Now members will be able to send and receive messages by e_mail anywhere in the world and the eventual aim is to have a website page specifically for Hong Kong pilots, he said.
"It's the way to go," Findlay said. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
The head of British Airways World Cargo (BAWC) in Hong Kong, Chris Humphrey, said he is confident of a "dramatic improvement" in freight handling service standards at London's Gatwick and Heathrow airports.
One leading Hong Kong air freight forwarder said he is just one customer who is "appalled" at BAWC's handling of ex-Hong Kong cargo in London. One recent consignment took three and a half days to clear Gatwick, the forwarder said speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity, adding he tries to avoid Heathrow wherever possible because of "indefensible" service standards. BA recently had its ISO service standard award at its main Heathrow cargo hub revoked.
Chris Humphrey, BAWC's regional cargo manager Pacific said he is aware of the problems and has assured customers that improvements are under way.
In an interview in Hong Kong, he said major changes to working practices at Gatwick, which receives Hong Kong's three freighter flights per week, had caused a "short term downturn in service standards".
At Heathrow, there have also been changes. BAWC's newly opened dedicated centre for freight from the Pacific region began handling Hong Kong cargo earlier this month. BA has said the centre will create a series of customer benefits and relieve pressure from its World Cargocentre hub.
"Again I am confident that we will see a dramatic improvement in our service standards there. I won't deny that we have had problems working in a very old building which is over capacity. We are aware of that and are working very hard to bring our working practices up to date and doing an awful lot of changes in a short time which is causing pain on the labour relations front. We lost the ISO from our main cargo hub but Pacific routes and cargo from Hong Kong still goes through an ISO qualified warehouse," Humphrey said.
"Things are getting better," he added. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
British Airways World Cargo (BAWC) is to employ a fourth weekly freighter between Hong Kong and London from next year, BAWC's regional cargo manager Pacific, Chris Humphrey said.
"We will definitely be moving forward with a fourth freighter. We are very bullish about the prospects for Hong Kong and Chinese economic growth. There's definitely a growing market here and next year's handover from a cargo point of view is immaterial. Other concerns such as US-Chinese trade relations have a much greater impact," Humphrey told Reuters in an interview at the British flag carrier's Hong Kong regional headquarters.
British Airways currently flies three Boeing 747 freighters a week between Hong Kong and London Gatwick which are wet leased from Atlas Air Inc. Denver-based Atlas uses converted passenger 747's to fly for several major airlines on aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance (ACMI) long term, wet-lease contracts which BA says it is happy to continue because no capital costs are incurred.
The cargo executive said statistics proved how strong the Hong Kong market is for BAWC. Humphrey said statistics of all Association of European Airlines (AEA) carriers in the Asia Pacific Region showed BAWC enjoyed an 18.5 percent increase in market share between January and July measured by Freight Tonne Kilometres (FTK). The traffic average for AEA carriers, which included Air France and Swissair, both to and from the region was 8.2 per cent, he said.
He also said freight tonnage from Hong Kong to BA's world-wide network in the first half of the financial year between April and September increased by 31 per cent.
"That's a pretty dramatic increase which is indicative of the market's strength," Humphrey said. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Microsoft Corp. reported better-than-expected profits for the latest quarter Monday as strong demand for its Windows operating systems and applications helped fuel record sales.
The computer software giant said earnings rose 23 percent to a record $614 million, or 95 cents a share, in its fiscal first quarter ended Sept. 30, from $499 million, or 78 cents a share, in the 1995 quarter. Revenues jumped 14 percent to $2.30 billion from $2.02 billion.
The profits, announced after the market closed, exceeded the Wall Street consensus expectation of 90 cents a share, and Microsoft shares rose to $136.375 in after-hours trading from the earlier close of $134 on Nasdaq.
Treasurer Greg Maffei said the 14 percent revenue increase was the smallest ever posted in the company's 21-year history, reflecting a surge in sales last year when Microsoft launched its Windows 95 operating system.
But with the high sales, marketing and manufacturing costs of Windows 95 also behind it, the company's operating profit margin surged to a record 39.3 percent of revenues, compared with about 35.1 percent a year earlier, said analyst Scott McAdams of Ragen MacKenzie.
"It looks like it was just a great quarter, and there's more to come," he said.
Microsoft executives said in a conference call with analysts that business would continue to be boosted by an expected holiday surge in sales of personal computers and the December release of Office 97, an update to the company's business applications product.
Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown said he expected revenues to rise sequentially over the next two quarters and indicated revenue for the current quarter could be in the range of $2.4 billion, about 12 percent over last year's levels.
But he said the company's cost of goods sold should remain at about 11 percent of sales, compared with 15 percent in last year's second quarter.
"I'm very happy with the general revenue trend, and I was very pleased with the pattern of costs in the quarter," Brown said in an interview.
Microsoft also cited strong acceptance of the company's high end Windows NT operating system.
Maffei said sales of the NT workstation were up 400 percent over year-ago levels, while revenues from the BackOffice suite of server products doubled. Officials declined to give figures, but the BackOffice line currently generates about $1 billion in annual revenue.
Microsoft's overall revenues are about evenly divided between operating systems -- most of which are shipped loaded on new computers -- and applications.
Excluding sales directly to manufacturers, European revenues were flat in the quarter compared with the year-earlier period, and revenues in the United States and Europe rose 9 percent, reflecting the tough comparison.
But revenues from other markets such as Japan, where Windows 95 was not released until later, were up 32 percent, Microsoft said.
Overall last year Microsoft revenues and profits grew 46 percent, driven largely by the Windows 95 launch.
Brown also said the company was on track to spend $2.1 billion on research and development in the current fiscal year, including such ventures as its MSNBC cable and Internet news venture with NBC.
And the "unearned revenue" in the company's balance sheet from cyclical products such as Windows grew to $651 million as of Sept. 30 from $560 million three months earlier.
The company's cash hoard grew slightly to $7.1 billion from $6.94 billion.
International Business Machines Corp. Monday reported a third-quarter profit that came in a shade better than Wall Street had expected, boosted by strong sales of personal computers and services.
The world's largest computer maker said net earnings were $1.29 billion, or $2.45 a share, for the quarter, compared with a loss of $538 million, or 96 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter.
Excluding a one-time charge of $1.8 billion related to its Lotus Development Corp. acquisition from the year-ago period, IBM's earnings were $1.3 billion in the 1995 quarter.
Sales grew 8 percent to $18.06 billion from $16.75 billion on the strength of PCs, minicomputers and computer services, IBM said. As expected, sales of mainframe computers declined.
Wall Street took IBM shares for a rollercoast ride after the report. They fell initially, then rallied on comments by the chief financial officer, and closed a fraction higher.
The midday rally took IBM to a new high for the year of $135.375. The stock closed at $130, up 75 cents.
The rally followed remarks by Chief Financial Officer G. Richard Thoman, who said in a meeting with analysts that he was "very comfortable" with the computer giant's prospects for the rest of 1996.
"I feel very good about the quarter and very good about the year," Thoman said.
But analysts still were concerned about company warnings that currency exchange rates, low prices for memory chips and higher-than-expected restructuring costs would hurt fourth quarter results.
"There were some cautionary comments about the fourth quarter," said Jay Stevens, a Dean Witter analyst who was among several who lowered their fourth quarter profit estimates.
Analysts said they generally were pleased with IBM's ongoing cost-cutting, its successful transition to new products in all its hardware areas and its investments in its growth. Revenue growth was also better than expected.
"I think the most impressive was the revenue growth," said Stephen Dube, an analyst with Wasserstein Perrella.
While mainframe computers no longer generate sales growth for Armonk, N.Y.-based IBM, they remain one of the company's important profit centres.
Thoman told analysts that more of IBM's mainframes sales were coming through its computer services business, and that IBM will not see the full impact of sales in one quarter for its new machines.
"If you sell a mainframe for $100,000 and you lease it or it's on a services contract ... rather than $100,000 at once, you have $8,000 a quarter," Thoman said in an interview, citing an example.
The company said revenues were higher in North America, Asia and Latin America but were flat in Europe. Revenue at its services division grew 26 percent to $3.9 billion, IBM said.
Total hardware sales rose 8 percent to $8.4 billion. PC sales, AS/400 minicomputers, and storage systems were up, while RS/6000 work stations, mainframes, and semiconductors fell.
IBM said pricing pressures hurt its semiconductor business.
Software revenues were off 1 percent to $3.1 billion, largely due to a decline in host-based software, which runs on mainframes. Distributed software revenues grew significantly from the 1995 period. Maintenance revenues fell 7 percent to $1.8 billion.
Long distance and local telephone company Frontier Corp. said on Monday it is investing up to $500 million in a $2 billion fiber optic network being built across the United States.
Frontier said it will be the largest fiber optic network built in the United States as a single project, and will put it ahead of AT&amp;T Corp., MCI Communications Corp. and others whose networks include both old and new technologies.
Lucent Technologies Inc., spun off from AT&amp;T Corp. in September, will supply the network cable. That contract is worth at least $100 million, a source close to the deal said.
The network is being built by privately owned Qwest Communications, which began work in 1995 and has already spent $500 million. Qwest said it is open to other telecommunications partners to help fund the remaining $1 billion.
The network will connect almost 100 cities and use the technical standard known as SONET, or Synchronous Optical Network, which gives high performance and reliability.
"Used in a ring, SONET allows you to recover from a network failure in milliseconds," said analyst Christine Heckart of consultants TeleChoice. "This investment will expand Frontier's network reach to customers it was hard to get at low cost," she said.
Frontier, based in Rochester, N.Y., currently leases its network from others. But it expects to be able to cut costs significantly by this investment, which will increase its network capacity forty-fold.
Robert Barrett, president of Frontier's Network Systems unit, said the network would begin to bring benefits in 1997, halving network transport costs, and cutting incremental network costs by 80 percent.
"Clearly it makes better sense for us to own the network," Barrett told a teleconference.
Qwest, a company specializing in network construction, is based in Denver, Colo. It is a subsidiary of Anschutz Co. Anschutz's owner and chief executive is Philip Anschutz, the largest shareholder in Union Pacific Corp.
Frontier will fund $350 million to $400 million of its investment from its own cash flow, and may use short- and medium-term debt for the remaining $100 million to $150 million.
Frontier's stock lost 25 cents to end at $27.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Microsoft Corp. reported better-than-expected profits for the latest quarter Monday as strong demand for its Windows 95 and Windows NT computer operating systems helped fuel record sales.
The world's largest software maker said earnings rose 23 percent to a record $614 million, or 95 cents a share, in its fiscal first quarter ended in September, from $499 million, or 78 cents a share, in the 1995 quarter. Revenues jumped 14 percent to $2.30 billion from $2.02 billion.
The profits exceeded Wall Street's expectations of 90 cents a share, and shares of the software giant rose to $136.375 in after-hours trading from the earlier close of $134 on Nasdaq.
Microsoft cited strong acceptance of the company's high end Windows NT operating system.
"We shipped version 4.0 of Windows NT this quarter, and the momentum behind the product is outstanding," said Jeff Raikes, Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing.
"Corporate customers made the decision to adopt Windows NT servers and workstations in record numbers, driving 19 percent revenue growth over last quarter in the U.S. and Canada. Sales of Windows NT server grew at nearly double the rate of other operating system environments."
Microsoft's results were considered a crucial measure of its progress since the year-ago period included the launch of the company's much-hyped Windows 95 operating system.
Industry analysts have said Microsoft's sales and earnings growth would slow from last year's blistering pace of more than 46 percent but noted it should continue to benefit from higher sales of personal computers and the growing use of Windows 95 and Windows NT.
Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown said he expected revenues to rise sequentially over the next two quarters from the $2.3 billion reported for the quarter ended on Sept. 30.
In an interview, Brown also said he thought the company's cost of goods sold could decline "a little bit" in the long term from the 10.9 percent of revenues just reported, already down from 16 percent a year ago.
"We'll grow a little bit in December and then a little bit more in March, I think," Brown said. "I'm very happy with the general revenue trend, and I was very pleased with the pattern of costs in the quarter."
Brown said revenues in the December quarter would be driven in part by holiday season sales, while the next quarter would get a boost from the release of the company's Office 97 business applications upgrade to one of its core products.
Computer Associates International Inc will unveil on Monday a new Internet business unit that provides one-stop hosting and managing of corporate Web sites, sources close to the company told Reuters.
Launching the new business unit is one of several major announcements the company is expected to make at its three-day CA World conference that starts Sunday in New Orleans.
In addition, the business software firm has slated separate press events with Microsoft Corp, Intel Corp and Tandem Computers Inc Monday and Tuesday.  
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates is scheduled to deliver a keynote speech Tuesday evening that is likely to center on the further integration of CA and Microsoft software strategies.
Computer Associates declined to comment on announcements that may be in the works. Specifically, CA officials would not discuss plans to launch a separate Internet business unit.
But sources familiar with CA's plans confirmed that a new Internet unit has been formed to help customers create dynamic Web sites tied to internal corporate database systems.  
"Computer Associates wants to ride the electronic commerce wave that is coming down the pike," said one source familiar with the CA Internet unit strategy.
"CA will provide a company the capacity for electronic commerce sites in return for a revenue-sharing arrangement," he said.
Customers would be offered turn-key systems that would allow them to erect a sophisticated business presence on the Web. A special CA focus would be to make customer information stored on legacy mainframe systems available via the Web.  
Web-based electronic commerce tools would tie the system directly to a company's back-office accounting department.
A set of basic pricing plans for the services will be disclosed Monday, starting at a minimum of $5,000 to $20,000. Pricing will be kept low by revenue sharing deals in which CA takes a cut of transactions done on the customer's Web site.
Morgan Stanley analyst Chuck Philips, who is attending the show, said he expected that the unit's main focus would be to provide Internet infrastructure equipment rather than making an extensive push into the computer consulting business.  
Company information would be delivered to a Web browser using CA-OpenIngres database software and CA-Unicenter TNG systems management tools and other Web management software.
CA's Internet system also will take advantage of its Jasmine multimedia object-oriented database for combining not just text but voice, graphics and video into an information management system that can be used for electronic commerce.
For example, a shoe company's catalog could be published over the Internet with detailed product descriptions and pricing which could be instantly updated as changes occurred.  
The division will account for only a few hundred out of CA's 9,000 total employees, the sources said.
The planned business, which has been in the works since April, would be a natural extension of CA's systems management and database products target its existing customer base of the world's largest corporations, as well as smaller firms.
The new unit would involve CA providing customers various levels of operations managment support, the sources said.
Customer data storage would be hosted on CA mainframes, an unusual feature compared to the hundreds of other Web service providers, who tend to leave information management in the hands of customers once Web site development work is complete.
In effect, Computer Associates' plans would resurrect the mainframe time-sharing business, where companies rent time and space on remote computers and pay service providers to assume responsibility for the headaches of managing the systems.
Computer Associates stock, which has been trading at historic highs recently, closed at 58-1/4, up 1 point Friday.
Computer Associates International Inc is set to announce a series of deals designed to extend the reach of its systems managment software onto new computer platforms and to strengthen its existing ties to Microsoft Corp's Windows NT, analysts said.
They said CA is likely to announce deals that allow its software to run on Novell and Tandem computer systems as well.
Computer Associates has scheduled separate press conferences Monday and Tuesday with Microsoft, Intel Corp and Tandem Computers Inc.  
CA officals declined to comment on what may be announced.
But analysts say the announcements will be made at the company's three-day CA World conference that starts Sunday in New Orleans.
Chet Geschickter, an industry analyst Hurwitz Consulting Group based in Newton, Mass., said he expected CA and Microsoft to announce a tighter integration of CA's Unicenter systems management product with Microsoft's BackOffice suite.
The two software giants already have a co-marketing pact for CA/Unicenter for Windows NT which was announced in 1995.  
"Where the rubber hits the road with Microsoft is bundling and co-marketing," Geschickter said, noting how this relationship distinguishes CA from all but a handful of the thousands of firms developing software to run on Windows.
"This would represent a downward proliferation strategy for CA," resulting in far greater use of Computer Assocates software at the desktop level of corporate offices, he said.
Morgan Stanley analyst Chuck Philips speculated that CA and Tandem have agreed to a partnership where CA will port its software to Tandem's large-scale transaction computers commonly used in banking and telecommunications.  
"The agreement is likely to be strategic, with little in the way of actual technology or products to annouce intially," said Philips, who is attending the CA World conference.
It is less evident what the business software firm might be planning with Intel, but one analyst predicted the two would announce a deal for CA to market Intel's LANdesk Novell network management software.
Intel, best known as the kingpin of microprocessors, also develops a variety of software, including LANdesk, the second leading set of network managent tools for Novell NetWare systems behind Novell Inc's own ManageWise software.  
Microsoft chairman Bill Gates is scheduled to deliver a keynote speech Tuesday evening that is likely to center on the further integration of CA and Microsoft software strategies.
Although not nearly so well known as Microsoft and other brand name PC software makers, Computer Associates is the world's top mainframe software supplier and the second largest independent software firm overall after Microsoft.
The two have forged a strategic partnership based their respective market strengths.
CA's expertise in the complicated software used to manage large-scale computer systems complements Microsoft's dominance of the high-volume corporate desktop software market and helps beef up Microsoft's suite of "BackOffice" software products.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Microsoft Corp Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown Monday said he expected the company's revenues to rise sequentially in the next two quarters from the $2.3 billion reported for the three months ended September 30.
In an interview, Brown also said he thought the company's cost of goods sold could decline "a little bit" in the long term from the 10.9 percent of revenue just reported, already down from 16 percent a year ago.  
"We'll grow a little bit in December and then a little bit more in March, I think," Brown said. "I'm very happy with the general revenue trend, and I was very pleased with the pattern of costs in the quarter."
Brown said revenue in the December quarter would be driven in part by holiday season cyclicality, while the March quarter would get a boost from the release of the company's Office 97 suite of business applications, an upgrade to one of the software company's core products.  
Brown said cost ratios were falling because of increased use of CD-ROMs for distributing software, rather than more costly diskettes, and because of the growing popularity of enterprise software licenses over sales through the retail and reseller channels.
Brown also said the company's spending on research and development was "right on target," with its announced plans to spend $2.1 billion in the current fiscal year ending June 30.
In addition, he said unearned revenue on the company's balance sheet -- up to $651 million as of September 30 from $560 million three months earlier -- would rise further as a result of growth in the "subscription" model of sales, such as licenses and upgrade.
					-- Seattle bureau 206-386-4848
Eli Lilly &amp; Co's third-quarter profits are expected to be up strongly over 1995, but analysts expressed some concern about the drugmaker's profit margins.
Increased marketing costs for the anti-depressant Prozac and the recently launched anti-schizophrenic drug Zyprexa may combine with higher sales of lower-margin goods, such as the blood clot buster ReoPro, to hold back margins, analysts said.
"One of our concerns ... is that gross profit margin could again fall below last year's level, said Deutsche Morgan Grenfell pharmaceuticals industry analyst Mariola Haggar.
Third-quarter 1995 gross margin was 74.3 percent.
The First Call consensus of 20 analysts' projections forecast third-quarter Lilly profits of $0.64 per share, up 18.5 percent from $0.54 per share a year ago.
Revenues on the quarter were expected to come in at about $1.8 billion, up from $1.63 billion in the year-ago period.
Shares in Lilly were up 3/4 to 69-1/4 on Monday ahead of the earnings report expected on Tuesday morning.
Analysts said the third quarter could be boosted by a one-time gain on the deal giving Dura Pharmaceuticals marketing rights to the antibiotics Ceclor CD and Keftab.
No significant revenue was expected to be recorded in the third quarter from Zyprexa, approved for marketing October 1, but it was expected to lift the fourth quarter. Lilly was expected to record its first revenues in the third quarter from Humalog, a new short-acting insulin, analysts said.
Under close scrutiny will be Prozac, which accounts for about a third of Lilly revenues. New prescription growth rates for the blockbuster drug were recovering but continued to lag competing products, August script reports showed.
A Lilly spokesman declined to comment on analysts' comments and forecasts.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Shares in media group Pearson closed sharply higher on Monday as takeover speculation swirled on a report, later denied, that broadcaster BSkyB might be planning a bid in the wake of announced management changes.
Pearson shares closed 34-1/2p higher at 731p after earlier touching a high for the year of 745p, as 6.7 million shares changed hands.
"The price was boosted last week by the management change but now it reflects revived bid speculation," said one sector analyst in a reference to last week's naming of a new Pearson chief executive and chairman.
A report in the Independent newspaper said BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has a 40 percent stake, was in the early stages of planning a bid worth more than four billion pounds ($6.4 billion) in cooperation with a U.S.-based media group.
But BSkyB's chief executive, Sam Chisholm, was quoted in later editions of Murdoch's Times newspaper saying there were "no talks taking place between News Corp, BSkyB or any associated company about a bid for Pearson."
A BSkyB spokesman on Monday confirmed Chisholm had denied any such talks.
Pearson, which owns Britain's main business newspaper, the Financial Times, Penguin Books and a number of television production companies, said it did not comment on speculation.
Analysts said although BSkyB appeared to have ruled itself out of a bid, observers felt any move on Pearson was likely to be made before new management takes control next year.
Last week, Pearson appointed Marjorie Scardino to be chief executive from January 1 -- the first female head of a company represented in the key FT-SE 100 share index -- and Dennis Stevenson chairman.
"If someone is thinking seriously about a bid, now is the time to do it. The new management hasn't arrived yet and so it would be harder to mount a defence," said one media analyst who asked not to be identified.
But analysts said Pearson shares were now approaching the top end of their price target range for full valuation of the business and the price tag attached to speculation around BSkyB was high.
"It is touching the stratosphere at these levels," said Anthony De Larrinaga of Panmure Gordon.
The media analyst said it was difficult to put a price tag on Pearson because its diversified nature meant it could have specific attractions for a variety of bidders.
Speculation of a bid for the company last surfaced in August when Anglo-Dutch publisher Reed-Elsevier was rumoured as a possible buyer.
After initial stock market disappointment, Scardino's appointment at Pearson was greeted with a 12 pence jump in shares on Friday as hopes emerged that she might reorganise the sprawling media company.
The Sunday Times newspaper reported that a sale of its television interests, which include soap opera and games show producer Grundy, might be on the cards.
"It may be that BSkyB want to acquire Grundy or Thames Television but whether they would want the entire group is another matter," said Anthony De Larrinaga of Panmure Gordon.
So far, Scardino appears to be keeping her options open, analysts said.
"There is no real evidence yet that she would consider any demergers and it is open to question whether such a move would bring shareholder benefit," one said.
"We have the stock on a hold at the moment. Let's see what the new management comes up with and let's see if there is anything concrete behind this bid speculation." ($1=.6298 Pound)
A planned sale of French television maker Thomson Multimedia to South Korea's Daewoo Electronics for a symbolic one franc has sparked a political backlash against the government's privatisation plans.
The government wants to sell electronics group Thomson SA to the Lagardere conglomerate, which would sell the loss-making Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo while keeping Thomson-CSF, the defence electronics subsidiary.
The leader of the French Socialist Party, Lionel Jospin, told France 3 state-owned television on Sunday he was "shocked" by the Thomson privatisation.
"This was a public sector firm and concerned the national interest. It has been privatised for ideological reasons", he said.
"I was shocked by the method, which was despicable and perhaps even illegal as the 1986 (privatisation) law specifically called for the parliamentary privatisation committee to give a supporting opinion," he said.
Jacques Delors, former president of the European Commission, told a conference in Paris on Sunday, "I would have preferred to maintain a European pole in consumer electronics."
On Monday, French business newspaper La Tribune Desfosses added to the controversy by reporting that a French businessman, whom it did not identify, was preparing a bid for Thomson Multimedia to keep the company French.
The report said it was only after the government declared its preference last Wednesday for Lagardere's bid over a rival offer from Alcatel Alsthom that authorities realised "the value of the gift it (the state) was making to Daewoo."
A Thomson-CSF spokesman declined to comment on the report of a "white knight" bidder.
A Lagardere spokesman said bids had closed in September and if investors were interested in Multimedia, they would have to negotiate with Daewoo after it had bought the firm.
Jospin said French President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Alain Juppe were allowing the sale of Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo, which would reap the benefits of French state financing for the group's digital technology.
"Thanks to state finances, it will be able to take up a strong position in the digital (television) market and be profitable from 1999," Jospin said.
Thomson Multimedia is set to make big profits in 1999, when revenues from technology licences will contribute at least one billion francs ($192.3 million) a year. The licences were acquired when Thomson bought RCA of the United States from General Electric in 1987 but only revert to Thomson after 1998.
"We are not hostile to a foreign company taking control of Thomson Multimedia as it follows an industrial and economic logic," a spokesman for the Thomson-CSF association of employee shareholders said.
But, he added, it was a pity the state had not played its part as a shareholder to recapitalise the group earlier.
A source close to Thomson said the group's financial situation was untenable as its share capital was insufficient to sustain its debt and that it was in dire need of fresh funds.
But the government is tightening its belt as it cuts public spending to meet tough requirements to join the single European currency by 1999. The Thomson privatisation was also launched as part of the government's consolidation of the defence industry.
The Thomson Multimedia unit, the world's fourth-largest TV maker, reported a loss of three billion francs in the first half of 1996. It has invested heavily in digitial television technology and is a leader in television decoders, as well as a being a member of the Digital Video Disc consortium.
The chairman of the South Korean company, Bae Soon-Hoon, has said he is ready to invest $1.5 billion in France and create 5,000 new jobs if he wins Multimedia.
($1=5.199 French Franc)
Shares in media group Pearson rose sharply on Monday as takeover speculation swirled on a report, later denied, that broadcaster BSkyB might be planning a bid, just days after new management was appointed.
"The price was boosted last week by the management change but now it reflects revived bid speculation," said one sector analyst who declined to be named.
Pearson shares were up 25 pence at 721-1/2 pence by 1115 GMT after touching a peak of 745 pence, a high for the year.
A report in Monday's Independent newspaper said BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has a 40 percent stake, was in the early stages of planning a bid worth more than four billion pounds ($6.4 billion) in cooperation with a U.S.-based media group.
But BSkyB's chief executive, Sam Chisholm, was quoted in later editions of Murdoch's Times newspaper saying there were "no talks taking place between News Corp, BSkyB or any associated company about a bid for Pearson."
BSkyB was not immediately available for comment on Monday.
Pearson, which owns the Financial Times newspaper, Penguin Books and a number of television production companies, said it did not comment on speculation.
Analysts said although BSkyB appeared to have ruled itself out of a bid, observers felt any move on Pearson was likely to be made before new management takes control next year.
Last week, Pearson appointed Marjorie Scardino to be chief executive from January 1 -- the first female head of a company represented in the key FT-SE 100 share index -- and Dennis Stevenson chairman.
"If someone is thinking seriously about a bid, now is the time to do it. The new management hasn't arrived yet and so it would be harder to mount a defence," said one media analyst who asked not to be identified.
But analysts said Pearson shares were now approaching the top end of their price target range for full valuation of the business and the price tag attached to speculation around BSkyB was high.
"It is touching the stratosphere at these levels," said Anthony De Larrinaga of Panmure Gordon.
The media analyst said it was difficult to put a price tag on Pearson because its diversified nature meant it could have specific attractions for a variety of bidders.
Speculation of a bid for the company last surfaced in August when Anglo-Dutch publisher Reed-Elsevier was rumoured as a possible buyer.
After initial stock market disappointment, Scardino's appointment at Pearson was greeted with a 12 pence jump in shares on Friday as hopes emerged that she might reorganise the sprawling media company.
The Sunday Times newspaper reported that a sale of its television interests, which include soap opera and games show producer Grundy, might be on the cards.
"It may be that BSkyB want to acquire Grundy or Thames Television but whether they would want the entire group is another matter," said Anthony De Larrinaga of Panmure Gordon.
So far, Scardino appears to be keeping her options open, analysts said.
"There is no real evidence yet that she would consider any demergers and it is open to question whether such a move would bring shareholder benefit," the sector analyst said.
"We have the stock on a hold at the moment. Let's see what the new management comes up with and let's see if there is anything concrete behind this bid speculation," he added. ($1=.6298 Pound)
Japan's biggest life insurer, Nippon Life Insurance Co, plans to set up a joint venture in the Philippines, becoming the first Japanese company to sell life insurance policies abroad.
A spokesman for Nippon Life said on Monday that it and the Yuchengco group of the Philippines' would sign a contract by the year-end to establish a joint venture by next March.
"Japanese insurers have not gone abroad to sell life insurance policies. We plan to sell policies in the Philippines to people in the medium to high income bracket, and also target Japanese firms that have already entered the country," he said.
Nippon Life will own 50 percent of the joint venture, which will be based in Manila. The rest will be owned by two Yuchengco group firms -- 30 percent by Great Pacific Life Assurance Corp and 20 percent by Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.
The size of the capitalisation and the number of staff at the new company have not yet been decided, but Nippon Life is expected to send several executives to the venture, he said.
Nippon Life is also looking to tap lucrative markets elsewhere in Asia as the domestic insurance business approaches saturation point, the spokesman said.
The president of Nippon Life, Josei Itoh, said earlier this year that it wants to help build up the life insurance market in the rest of Asia in collaboration with local firms.
Only an estimated five to 10 percent of people in Southeast Asia have life insurance policies, Itoh said, adding that China's biggest insurer, the People's Insurance Co of China (PICC), could be a candidate for a joint venture.
Nippon Life is a giant in the Japanese insurance business and one of the world's top providers of life cover, with assets of about 39 trillion yen ($348 billion), nearly one-fifth of the value of assets held by Japan's 31 life insurers.
Analysts say the insurance business in emerging Asian countries will grow rapidly in the coming decades. Purchase of life insurance policies is closely tied to an individual's affluence and disposable income, they say.
"While Japan's insurance market is reaching maturity, the prospects for growth are enormous in the rest of Asia as countries there have just begun to build up a pool of their own capital," said Nikko Research Centre analyst Kouya Hasegawa.
"Japanese banks and other financial institutions are already targeting Asian markets for future opportunities. Nippon Life took action in the region as the first Japanese life insurer to do so, indicating other big life insurance firms will follow," he said. ($1=112 yen)
Boeing Co defense and space group President Gerald King said he thought the company had a "better than 50-50" chance of surviving to the next round of the military's Joint Strike Fighter program.
He said in an interview he was "not quite as bullish" about the company's chances of surviving into the next round of competition to win a contract to develop a so-called Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle for the U.S. Air Force. (corrects program from "...develop the next-generation space shuttle launch  vehicle.") 
In the joint strike program, Boeing is competing with McDonnell Douglas Corp and Lockheed Martin Corp to win a contract to build about 3,000 jets in the next century for the U.S. Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps and the British Royal Navy.
The Pentagon will eliminate one of the bidding companies next month in a "downselect."
"This is high on our priority, so we put a lot of effort into coming up with what we think is the right solution," King said in an interview. 
He said he thought Boeing had a good chance because of the high degree of commonality in its design, which should allow it to come up with a lower price for the single modular aircraft with three different configurations.
"I think our chances our better than 50-50 of going to the next phase because I think we've come forward with a very innovative solution," he said.  "The customer is almost obligated to give us an opportunity to demonstrate that we can in fact deliver what we've committed to." 
But he said he was concerned the Pentagon might favor the other bidders, particularly McDonnell Douglas, on the theory that a broad national "industrial base" needs to be maintained.
He said such an argument would make "absolutely no sense" because the United States already has excess capacity to build commercial and military aircraft.
If Boeing were eliminated the company would be "available" to partner with the surviving contractors, King said.
On the space shuttle program, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration is expected to select two finalists in December from among Boeing, McDonnell Douglas, Lockheed Martin and Alliant Techsystems Inc.
"Even though I think we have the best solution, I think the competition is extremely tough, with Lockheed Martin and McDonnell Douglas having present launch systems that they can evolve from," King said.
				   -- Seattle bureau 206-386-4848
Boeing Co defense and space group President Gerald King said the company's planned acquisition of Rockwell International Corp's defense and space business was on track to close in early December.
In an interview, King also said he expected the defense and space group to remain "a significant part of the Boeing Co" with 30 to 40 percent of the company's total revenues "over time."  
King said he expected federal regulators to complete an antitrust review of the planned Rockwell deal early next month. The proposal also needs to be approved by Rockwell shareholders at a meeting set for Dec. 4 and should close within a few days after that, he said.
"Something could always happen to the merger to keep it from going through, I suppose, even though it looks like a slam dunk in comparison with some of the other things that have been done in this industry," King said.  
Last year defense and space revenues of $5.58 billion were 29 percent of the company's $19.52 billion in revenues, with commercial aircraft sales accounting for the rest.
This year defense and space revenues are expected to be nearly flat, while overall company revenues rise to about $22.6 billion, reflecting growth in commercial jet deliveries, said analyst Peter Jacobs of Ragen MacKenzie.
The Rockwell acquisition will add about $2.6 billion in revenue to the defense and space group next year, and King said the company has no immediate plans for further acquisitions.
"We're looking only to make this one work first," he said. "If there's a next step, we'll think about that later."
King said the defense and space group continues to pursue commercial opportunities, including the Sea Launch program, which he said was on track for initial satellite launch in mid-1998.
King also said the company and its partner, Textron Inc's Bell Helicopter division, are offering a nine-passenger civilian version of their V-22 Osprey tiltrotor aircraft that will be available in 2001.
				 -- Seattle bureau 206-386-4848
Monsanto Co, which exceeded analysts' expectations for its third quarter, warned analysts not to increase earnings estimates for the full year, according to Nicholas Filippello, chief economist.
"I warned them (analysts) not to increase expectations for the full year," Filippello said, adding the First Call mean of analysts' estimates is $1.48 a share, compared with $1.25 a year ago.
"We're urging people not to increase the number," he added.  
Earlier, Monsanto reported third quarter earnings of $0.28 a share, up from $0.23 a year ago and above the First Call mean of $0.24.
Filippello said certain factors, including the timing of bulk aspartame sweetener shipments and an adjustment in the full-year tax rate, contributed to third quarter earnings exceeding First Call expectations.
Looking ahead, Filippello said Monsanto continues to weigh options for its chemical business, as reported earlier this month.  One possibility is to spin the chemicals operation off as a separate publicly traded company.  
Or chemicals could be spun off and then merged with another company, Filippello added. The "spin-off/merger option," he said, would be preferrable from a tax standpoint from an outright sale of the chemical operations.
But he said it was too early to speculate which options was likely to take place.  "I think it's too early to speculate," Filippello said.
If Monsanto shed its chemical operations, it would be left with a life sciences business consisting of agricultural products, pharmaceuticals and food ingredients.  
Filippello said Monsanto is considering ways to make food ingredients "an important part of this life sciences company." But it remains to be seen how much growth in food ingredients would be accomplished internally or if the company would undertake licensing, partnerships and possible acquisitions, he added.
The life sciences business would include the G.D. Searle pharmaceutical company, which analysts in the past had expected Monsanto to sell.
"There is no interest at this point in selling Searle," Filippello said. "Searle clearly is an appreciating asset at this point...Our expectation at this time is that value is going to continue increase over time."
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications, a major new British cable operator formed on Tuesday from a group led by Cable &amp; Wireless Plc, has the potential to be competitive and focuses attention on the fast-growing area, analysts said.
"The logic is irrefutable...the advantages of scope and size are undoubtedly there," said Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull analyst John Tysoe.
Cable &amp; Wireless, NYNEX Corp of the U.S. and Bell Canada International announced they would merge the operations of their British subsidiaries in a complex deal, culminating in a float of 15 percent of the new company.
"That creates an integrated second force, which will give BT a run for its money," Tysoe said, referring to telecommunications giant British Telecommunications.
Shares in Cable &amp; Wireless closed up 25.5 pence to 466.5, after touching a high of 476.5 pence, while NYNEX Cable Communications gained 23.5 pence to 119.5 pence.
"It's a jolly bold and impressive move," said one sector analyst.
The merger should result in quite significant cost savings, said Chris McFadden of Merrill Lynch, including tax offsets, refinancing of high-yield cable television funding and possibly through staff cuts.
"The new company can offer the complete range of services and it will be competing with BT in the franchises which it operates," the sector analyst said.
Analysts added that the deal was expected to dilute earnings slightly in the first year but enhance them from year two.
BT's shares edged down four pence to 354 pence as the market weighed the emergence of a new competitor.
But BT welcomed the consolidation in the sector, saying it would create a market "where competition can become the natural regulator."
Analysts said BT's calls to be allowed to provide cable television, which the Conservative government has so far rebuffed, could gain impetus from the emergence of Cable &amp; Wireless Communications.
For other cable companies, the move has focused market attention, which had been flagging, back on the fast-growing sector, with stock market valuations now looking a little low.
"People are reassessing the value (of cable companies). There could be more consolidation. They have to respond," McFadden said, adding that calculations suggested a 2.9 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) tag for C&amp;W's Mercury unit after the deal.
Telewest Communications shares jumped 12 pence to 135, while General Cable gained 18 to 197 pence.
The British cable market is growing fast, with around 7.5 million homes now within striking distance of connections, as around six billion pounds has already been invested in building cable networks and a further six billion is planned.
The new company will eclipse its rivals in terms of market share, with 2.47 million homes within reach, compared with its nearest rival, Telewest, with around two million.
But analysts said it would not be in direct competition with other cable network companies as they mainly operated in different franchises.
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications may flex its muscles in securing more favourable terms for programming from BSkyB, the satellite broadcaster in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has a 40 percent stake, analysts said.
BSkyB shares were down 16-1/2p to 680p, after touching a low of 678p.
"I think that is why BSkyB has come under pressure. People think the merged company might secure more attractive rates," the sector analyst said. ($1=.7986 Pound)
North America's largest gold producer, Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp, reported lower third-quarter earnings on Tuesday due to an after-tax charge and higher operating costs.
Barrick's net income for the quarter fell to $21 million, or 6 cents a share, from $67.7 million, or 19 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier.
Earnings were slightly below analysts' expectations.
"I think their quarter clearly underscores that Barrick has made the transition from a growth company to one that's trying to maintain its existing base," said mining analyst Barry Allan of Gordon Capital.
Barrick pointed to higher cash costs, which rose to $203 an ounce from $194 an ounce a year earlier.
The company also took a $38 million hit to bail out of its Cerro Corona exploration project in Peru.
Barrick hiked its exploration budget more than 50 percent, to $46.4 million for the first nine months of the year, compared with $30.9 million previously.
Investors seemed to shrug that off. Barrick's shares rose C50 cents to C$36.15 in heavy trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. In New York, the stock rose 37.5 cents to $26.875.
The market seemed positive to Barrick's plans to develop its Pascua mine in Chile and its new Pierina property in Peru, analysts said.
Barrick bought the Pierina deposit last summer through its $800 million takeover of Arequipa Resources Ltd, based on a minimum of 4.5 million ounces of gold. According to the company, recent drilling on the property suggests the number was conservative.
Barrick said production at Pierina should begin in late 1999 at a rate of 500,000 ounces of gold a year. Costs should be below $100 an ounce thanks to a substantial silver credit and high grade gold.
Capital costs should be about $200 million, the company said. It has eight drills on the property working to define the deposit.
"They are proceeding very aggressively on Pierina," Allan said. However, he cautioned that it was risky to make such claims while drilling was still underway and a feasibility study is still a long way off.
At Pascua in Chile, recent exploration suggests the deposit may extend across the nearby border into Argentina, Barrick said. Production is expected to begin in 1999, totalling 400,000 ounces a year at an operating cost of $240 per ounce. Capital costs are expected of about $475 million.
North America's largest gold producer, Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp, reported lower third-quarter earnings on Tuesday due to an after-tax charge and higher operating costs.
"I think their quarter clearly underscores that Barrick has made the transition from a growth company to one that's trying to maintain its existing base," said mining analyst Barry Allan of Gordon Capital.  
Barrick's net income for the quarter fell to US$21 million, or US$0.06 a share, from US$67.7 million, or US$0.19 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier.
Earnings were slightly below analysts' expectations.
Barrick pointed to higher cash costs, which rose to US$203 an ounce from US$194 an ounce a year earlier.
The company also took a US$38 million hit to bail out of its Cerro Corona exploration project in Peru.
And Barrick hiked its exploration budget more than 50 percent, to US$46.4 million for the first nine months of the year, compared to US$30.9 million previously.  
Investors seemed to shrug that off. Barrick's shares rose C$0.50 to C$36.15 in heavy trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. In New York, the stock rose 3/8 to US$26 7/8.
The market seemed positive to Barrick's plans to develop its Pascua mine in Chile and its new Pierina property in Peru, analysts said.
Barrick bought the Pierina deposit last summer through its US$800 million takeover of Arequipa Resources Ltd, based on a minimum of 4.5 million ounces of gold. According to the company, recent drilling on the property suggests the number was conservative.  
Barrick said production at Pierina should begin in late 1999 at a rate of 500,000 ounces of gold a year. Costs should be below US$100 an ounce thanks to a substantial silver credit and high grade gold.
Capital costs should be about US$200 million, the company said. It has eight drills on the property working to define the deposit.
"They are proceeding very aggressively on Pierina," analyst Allan said. However, he cautioned that it was risky to make such claims while drilling was still underway and a feasibility study is still a long way off.
At Pascua in Chile, recent exploration suggests the deposit may extend across the nearby border into Argentina, Barrick said. Production is expected to begin in 1999, totaling 400,000 ounces a year at an operating cost of US$240 per ounce. Capital costs are expected of about US$475 million.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100
A senior U.S. Defence Department official on Tuesday dismissed Czech army detections of chemical agents released in the early days of the Gulf War, saying the incidents were not verifiable by American equipment.
Amid growing criticism that the Pentagon fumbled reports of U.S. troops' exposure to nerve gas agents in 1991, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defence Theodore Prociv said the Pentagon still viewed the Czech findings as false alarms.
"What we agree to is what we can verify," Prociv, who is in charge of the Pentagon division on chemical weapons use, told reporters during a visit to the Czech Defense Ministry.
"Every now and then (during the Gulf War) we would get an alarm and we couldn't verify it. So our position is that without the verification, it's not a true detection."
Thousands of troops based in northern Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War -- mostly Americans and Britons -- have reported respiratory ailments, skin rashes and muscle pain which they believe resulted from exposure to low-level chemical agents released during several U.S. bombings of Iraqi weapons caches.
The conditions, which have been dubbed the "Gulf War Syndrome", have been linked by veterans groups to several detections of chemical fallout from the bombings, including several detections by the Czech unit.
On Saturday, the New York Times newspaper quoted Czech soldiers and combat logs as saying that U.S. commanders ignored the warnings of chemical detections made by the Czech unit in January 1991 at the beginning of the war.
Prociv, specifically speaking about the Czech detections, said U.S. equipment could not verify these warnings. He did not discuss other incidents.
"We have looked at the Czech equipment as excellent, our verification system is excellent. The Czech detections were part of problem we were experiencing with some of the other detections," said Prociv, whose visit was officially to discuss U.S.-Czech cooperation to develop better chemical detection.
The Gulf issue exploded recently when Pentagon officials admitted that more than 15,000 American troops may have been exposed to nerve gas when American combat engineers blew up an Iraqi munition depot in March 1991.
In a heated hearing of the Senate Intelligence and Veterans Affiars committee in late September, several senior senators blasted the Pentagon for dragging its heels on the issue.
Alabama Senator Richard Shelby accused the Pentagon of "a shameful campaign of obstruction" in answering veterans claims, adding: "I found that Czech chemical units...accurately reported" the presence of chemical agents at various locations.
But the Pentagon's recent admission focused on the destruction of a chemical munitions cache near the southern Iraqi town of Kamisiyah in March 1991, a few days after the end of the war, not the Czech detections.
The Pentagon on Tuesday in Washington announced that it was notifying about 20,000 U.S. Gulf War troops that they may have been exposed to chemical weapons in the Marhc 1991 incident.
The Czech army experts serving in the allied forces against Iraq detected category "G" agents such as Sarin on January 19, 1991 in a 30 square km (19 sq mile) area near the town of Khafr al-Batn, in northern Saudi Arabia near the border with Iraq.
The Czech unit said it also detected incidents of a type of mustard gas between January 20 and 24, in an area 10 km (six miles) from the King Khaled military city which housed thousands of Saudi soldiers.
The Prague Stock Exchange on Tuesday, buoyed by financial sector share gains, continued to rebound from its recent slump, closing higher for the third consecutive session.
Komercni Banka, IPB, Ceska Sporitelna and Zivnostenska Banka all gained ground as the PX50 index edged up 2.5 points, or 0.47 percent, to 537.1.
The Reuters RPIX index, measuring the seven continuously- traded equity issues on the bourse, climbed five points to 1,095.
Overall, 188 shares rose on the day, while 121 lost and 74 held steady. Total volume was 701,356 shares on turnover of 721.14 million crowns.
For IPB, which rose 15 crowns to 331, it was the second consecutive five percent gain, the maximum allowed by the bourse in a session, after the government said it would be the first of the big four banks to undergo privatisation.
On Friday, Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik gave investors the signal they had been looking for when he said that a strong foreign strategic partner would be the most likely beneficiary of any sell off.
Since the announcement, Nomura and ING Bank have been rumoured as the frontrunners in any bid to participate in the selloff. The government holds about a 30 percent stake in IPB.
"If you were to bring in a foreign partner such as the caliber of the two banks mentioned, that addresses questions that have been hovering around IPB on its perceived lack of corporate structure and transparency," said Jay King of Wood and Company.
The bank has been widely-criticsed for being the least transparent of the four major Czech banks in its dealings, especially a recent spending spree that has seen it quietly buy large stakes in several firms.
Several utilities also fared well at the fixing, with Stredoceska Energetika, Prazska Teplarenska, Severomoravksa Energetika, Jihomoravska Energetika and Elektrarny Opatovice all rising.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Colombia's main oil workers' union, USO, known for its fierce nationalism and opposition to multinationals, has merged with a smaller labor organization in a bid to create an industry-wide front, one of its leaders said Tuesday.
The new grouping will target workers not currently represented by any union, primarily those employed by foreign companies operating in the country, USO social security secretary Gustavo Triana said.
The merger vote took place late Monday in the oil production center of Barrancabermeja and has set alarm bells ringing in some sectors of the industry, which fear the USO's spreading influence could sour labor relations with the non-unionized workforce.
"The merger was unanimously agreed and this opens a new phase of union organization in the oil industry. We will try to enter into those sectors where there is little or no union presence," Triana said. "The multinationals have already spoken out against this grouping and we think they will show a great deal of resistance and look for ways to keep it out of their fields."
The USO has about 5,700 workers and has until now only been able to recruit within the state oil company Ecopetrol. But the merger with the small ASOPETROL, which already has a foothold in the multinationals, will pave the way to what USO chief Hernando Hernandez believes could be a 40,000-strong "super-union".
Triana said the new union would not only cover production and refinery workers but could also extend to contractors and those involved in transport and distribution operations related to the oil industry.
SINTRAOXY, which represents multinational Occidental Petroleum's workers, is expected to join USO and ASOPETROL, Triana said.
USO, formed in the 1920s, has accused foreign multinationals of undermining national sovereignty through its production and exploration contracts with Ecopetrol. It has also attacked them for exploiting Colombian workers.
For their part, some of the multinationals believe USO has ties with Colombia's leftist guerrilla movements -- a charge its leaders deny.
A foreign oil spokesman said last week: "The prospect of having to deal with a belligerent union with close ties to the guerrilla movements is far from stimulating."
Another contacted Tuesday said his company was analyzing the merger decision, saying: "It may be something we can live with. It's surprising what people who want to earn a dollar will put up with."
Last week, the USO staged a 24-hour strike which paralyzed pumping operations along Colombia's two main oil pipelines.
The Australian Gas Light Co (AGL) was interested in looking at the Australian assets of Tenneco Inc if the assets were put up for sale, managing director Len Bleasel said on Tuesday.
Tenneco has announced a restructure that includes a proposed merger of its energy arm with El Paso Energy Corp
"But we haven't got a deal in front of us ... but I can tell you we have had more than one knock on our door and say 'if we could put something together would you be interested,' and we say 'come on back when you have got something'," Bleasel said.  
"The whole Tenneco story is yet to unfold," Bleasel told Reuters in a telephone interview.
"There are a lot of rumours in the market that El Paso may not want to hold onto all of the assets," he said.
Bleasel said said AGL, a Australian gas utility and energy group, would wait and see what unfolds with the Tenneco-El Paso restructure, whether assets are sold off or not.
Tenneco's Australian assets include the 1700 km of pipeline in South Australia including the state's primary gas pipeline from Moomba to the Adelaide pipeline system. Tenneco is also building a 760 km gas pipeline in southwest Queensland.  
"I continuously say ... that AGL is interested in every sale whereever it is in the country because we are now a broad based energy company and if the Tenneco assets were to go to the market then we would be interested in how they were going to be presented to the market," Bleasel said.
"The silly thing to say is 'no we are not interested or no there is no possible sale,' then if somebody wants to do a little slick sale then they are not going to come and talk to you because you have said publicly you are not interested."  
However, a Tenneco Australia spokeswoman said Tenneco had made no decision about the future of its Australian assets nor had it told anyone the assets were for sale.
AGL's main market is New South Wales but it has businesses in Victoria, Western Australia and the Nortern Territory.
The Sydney-based group also has interests in China, Poland and Chile. "When you are trying to grow a company like we are, we are interested in everything," Bleasel said.  
Bleasel said he was very optimistic on the company's prospects from Monday's agreement with Santos Ltd and ALISE Energy Australia Pty Ltd for the supply of gas to a proposed cogeneration plant at Botany in Sydney.
"This gives a new revenue stream to AGL," Bleasel said.
He said 20-year agreement would not affect the company bottom line until the project is up and running in about two years time.  
AGL earlier held its annual meeting where the former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia John Phillips was formally appointed the company's new chairman, replacing Richard Mason who retired.
Shareholders also approved the appointments of Charles Allen, the former managing director of Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Carolyn Hewson, a director of CSR Ltd and wife of former Australian liberal party leader John Hewson.
AGL shares ended four cents up at A$6.64.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Virgin Group's cargo unit in Hong Kong thinks it will move significant amounts of air freight from the territory to South Africa via its new service to Johannesburg from London.
"We think there is a big market out there which is rising and that we can compete effectively via London," said Brinkley Chan, Assistant Manager for Dyna Trans (Hong Kong) Limited, Virgin Atlantic Cargo's Hong Kong agent.
Chan told Reuters that Virgin is offering a dedicated LD-3 container for South African bound cargo on its daily flights from Hong Kong to London.
He said Virgin's new, three times a week service to Johannesburg from London which began on October 2 can do well despite being a "second class carrier."
Virgin will begin flying a new shorter route to London from Hong Kong overflying China on October 27 which will permit it to carry an extra six tonnes of freight westbound.
Direct services to South Africa from Hong Kong are flown by Cathay Pacific and South African Airways.
Chan says other airlines offering indirect competition on the route include Singapore International Airlines in Singapore, Brazil's Varig via Bangkok, Gulf Air via Abu Dhabi and Emirates Airline via Dubai.
Chan said the main ex Hong Kong exports bound for South Africa will be electronics, clothing and general freight. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
A huge ethylene venture linking a British Petroleum subsidiary and Shanghai Petrochemical Co Ltd would give BP a major presence in China's downstream petrochemicals, company officials said on Tuesday.
BP Chemicals signed a letter of intent with Shanghai Petrochemical on Thursday to set up a $2.5 billion plant in Shanghai capable of producing 650,000 tonnes of ethylene a year.
"It's a big step forward for our development in China," said Zhang Jianning, BP's Beijing manager of government affairs.
He said BP's biggest China project so far also marked a change of focus for the company, which has until recently concentrated most of its Chinese investment in upstream activities such as drilling and exploration.
Analysts have predicted huge growth in China's downstream petrochemicals industry, as booming economic growth sends demand for products such as ethylene soaring.
"At the moment I would think petrochemicals is getting quite exciting," Zhang said in a telephone interview.
Officials of Shanghai Petrochemical, which is majority-owned by China Petrochemical Corp, or Sinopec, said the huge project demonstrated the company's confidence in its own future and in China's economic development.
It was too early to say how long a feasibility study for the project would take, but for a project of such a scale preliminary research could reasonably last up to two years, said Shanghai Petrochemical deputy director Lian Xiaolu.
Completion of such projects could take up to eight years, Lian told a news briefing in Beijing, adding it was too early to decide the details of how the venture would operate or of the investment required.
BP will own a 50 percent stake in the ethylene plant with the remaining 50 percent either held by Shanghai Petrochemical or shared with its parent Sinopec, officials said.
The venture is one of six ethylene projects with annual capacity of 600,000 tonnes or more promoted by state planners, the official China Daily said.
Sinopec president Sheng Huaren said last week the state oil refiner planned to more than double ethylene production capacity to around five million tonnes a year by 2000 from the current annual 2.36 million tonnes.
Shanghai Petrochemical officials said they hoped to establish a joint venture company with BP to produce acrylonitrile, used to make synthetic fibres.
The joint venture could then be expanded if all went well with technical studies for the ethylene plant, they said.
"If the market is there we will go ahead very quickly on this one," BP's Zhang said. He declined to say when the British firm hoped to begin production.
While the letter of intent showed a major commitment to working with BP, even if the ethylene project developed it did not mean Shanghai Petrochemical would slow cooperation with other foreign firms, said board of directors secretary Cai Hongping.
"It's not like love with a marriage of one husband and one wife," he said. "I think Shanghai Petrochemical will not stop looking for other partners."
China has agreed not to enforce a ban on imports of U.S. poultry until after top-level quarantine talks scheduled to take place in Beijing next week, U.S. business and diplomatic sources said Tuesday.
"We understand they (the Chinese authorities) have not issued any letter to the field banning imports, and that they will not until discussions are held," a senior diplomat in Beijing said.
China last week confirmed a ban on imports of poultry and poultry products from 10 U.S. states because of fears of a fowl plague known as highly pathogenic avian influenza, or HPAI.
China is the second-biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products and is its only market for chicken feet.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled $445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
The states affected are Arkansas, Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Texas, Utah and Wisconsin.
Officials from Washington's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service were to arrive in Beijing next Monday for talks with China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine on Wednesday, the diplomatic source said.
"We have been told they will hold off on any action until then," he said.
News of the ban surfaced on Oct. 10, when the U.S. agriculture attache in Beijing confirmed to his head office that China feared U.S. poultry products bore the HPAI virus.
U.S. officials say U.S. poultry is free of HPAI virus and that Chinese quarantine personnel are confused about the difference between HPAI and avian influenza, or AI.
"We don't know what they identified," an APHIS official told Reuters. "All we can say is that HPAI is not found in the U.S. The last time it was found (in 1984) it was eradicated and since then we have had no reports of HPAI at all."
AI is prevalent the world over, especially in wild fowl, and had not been isolated in commercial U.S. poultry flocks, he and other U.S. sources said.
"AI is not a concern for vets -- it's like the common cold and is not quarantinable," the APHIS source said.
U.S. and meat industry sources said the HPAI virus had been detected in ostrich breeding stock in the United States destined for ostrich farms in China.
During a trip to Texas by CAPQ personnel to look at U.S. ostriches, 22 birds had tested positive for HPAI, a U.S. source said.
A positive test did not necessarily mean the bird was ill with HPAI, he said, likening it to a tuberculosis skin test which, if positive, did not definitively indicate the presence of TB.
China's listed companies must work to increase transparency and improve asset valuation if the country's fledgling markets are to gain global prominence, a top U.S. securities official said in Beijing on Tuesday.
Arthur Levitt, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said he stressed in meetings with Chinese officials the need for frank disclosure of company data as a crucial step in boosting investor confidence in Chinese firms.
"I mentioned in every meeting over and over and over again the importance of transparency," Levitt told reporters.
"That's something that we can't emphasise enough: transparency, transparency, transparency," said Levitt, who is on a seven-day visit to China.
Officials in Chinese listed firms often saw the need for transparency but many were reluctant to disclose company data out of fears that such frankness would profit the competition, Levitt said.
Chinese public firms needed to think of shareholders as owners of the company rather than as impediments to progress, he said.
Levitt said he had urged the Chinese to swallow the bitter medicine of improved disclosure, effective regulation and cracking down on corruption to bolster investor confidence in what many businessmen were eyeing as a promising market.
"Their markets, just like every other market in the world, will be no better than public confidence is in that market," Levitt said.
Levitt said one of Beijing's most pressing tasks would be to draft a securities law that would serve as a guidepost for companies as well as regulatory agencies.
"The thing that business abhors more than anything else is uncertainty, or a lack of clarity," Levitt said.
The lacklustre performance of Chinese companies that had listed on the New York Stock Exchange reflected a lack of investor confidence in Chinese accounting methods and asset valuation systems, he said.
"The process of evaluating assets in China is an uncertain process that concerns many investors," Levitt said.
Many Chinese officials had been deeply disappointed by the slack overseas performance of Chinese firms, prompting a two-year pause in the process of nurturing of Chinese financial markets, he said.
"The Chinese over the past 12 to 18 months have been inner-directed, looking at the system, looking at the process and asking themselves what went wrong," he said, adding that reform had to continue.
"I tried to encourage everyone I talked to to stay the course, that the stakes were too high to turn around," Levitt said.
"This is a road that, once started on, there really is no turning back."
Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Limited (HACTL) may retain its facilities at Kai Tak as a 'down-town' depot after the territory's new airport at Chek Lap Kok opens, its managing director Anthony Charter said.
Air freight forwarders in Hong Kong said they are putting new pressure on the Government to keep Kai Tak's twin terminals open. Charter said HACTL has now made new approaches to the Government but added that a final decision is not expected until next year when a team of planning consultants report on what should happen to the valuable land which the airport occupies.
"We would be very happy to protect this bit of infrastructure which would help freight forwarders get over some of the difficulties they have with the new airport. It makes sense not to see the highly automated facilities just knocked down. We are keen on the idea of serving the freight forwarding community in the future," Charter told Reuters.
HACTL's private franchise at Kai Tak is due to run out when the new airport opens in April 1998 and its terminal facilities returned to the Government for the nominal fee of one Hong Kong dollar. HACTL will then move into its new one billion HK dollar state-of-the-art Super Terminal at Chek Lap Kok which it says will be the world's largest air freight complex under one roof.
But some freight forwarders, especially smaller companies, are baulking at the high cost of moving to the new airport, said the Hong Kong Association of Freight Forwarding Agents (HAFFA). Many firms have invested heavily in infrastructure close to Kai Tak and fear large staff relocation costs and high rents at the new out of town airport, it added.
HAFFA has supported calls for Kai Tak's cargo facilities to be retained and said it first proposed the idea more than five years ago but HACTL management then rejected it.
"It would make agents life easier if, as we proposed, there was a town centre facility," said HAFFA's chief executive Pauline Hui.
DHL International (Hong Kong) Ltd is backing the call. Andy Tseng, DHL's area manager for Hong Kong and China said he's written a letter urging that Kai Tak's cargo facilities be retained as a consolidation centre.
Supporters said the terminals could be rented out to another operator or run by HACTL.
HACTL said the former is unlikely because they own the computer software which runs the highly automated centre. Another suggestion that cargo from Kai Tak could be taken by barge to the new airport as well as along the new toll expressway has been discounted by HACTL as too slow.
HACTL said its integrated and highly automated twin cargo terminals at Kai Tak handle more than 1.5 million tonnes from 70 airlines a year making it the second busiest international cargo airport in the world. About 20 per cent of Hong Kong's external trade passes through HACTL. The company has invested more than US$256 million in Kai Tak, excluding land costs, which is probably the largest investment in air cargo facilities worldwide.
Aviation analysts said much of that investment will wasted if the Kai Tak terminals are closed down.
The lobby to keep the cargo terminal open is running alongside another campaign to keep Kai Tak open as an airport for smaller commuter aircraft. The Hong Kong government says it has rejected that proposal but is being urged to rethink its long term policy by business interests including commuter aircraft manufacturers.
HACTL, which has a monopoly on all air cargo handling at Kai Tak airport, is jointly owned by Swire Pacific Ltd, Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd, Wharf (Holdings) Ltd, Hutchison Whampoa Ltd, China National Aviation Corp, CITIC Pacific Ltd and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, reported to be in fragile health, was absent from a rally on Tuesday to pay tribute to him and other survivors of the 1934-36 Long March.
Deng, 92, one of about 700 surviving veterans of the Red Army who trekked 9,650 km (6,000 miles) across China on foot to flee Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops, did not appear on state television which showed the 45-minute rally live.
Deng, who no longer holds any office but is believed to remain highly influential, has not been seen in public since early 1994.
His health is a matter of intense speculation in China, Hong Kong and the Asian region because his death is expected to trigger a scramble for power among those eager to succeed him as de facto emperor of the world's most populous nation.
The official line is that Deng is in good health for a man of his age.
Extensive preparations were made last year for Deng to grace official celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of the World War Two victory against Japan, but his scheduled appearance was cancelled at the last minute, Chinese sources said.
The Long March rally was seen by some analysts as a show of support for Deng's successor, Communist Party boss and state president Jiang Zemin, who has been eager to shrug off the patriarch's shadow.
"It was staged to show Jiang has the support of military from the old to the present and future generations," one Chinese analyst said.
Long March survivors, including former state president and Jiang's bitter rival Yang Shangkun, were at the rally. A representative of the three million-strong People's Liberation Army pledged to follow Jiang's leadership.
Eight Young Pioneers -- China's version of boy and girl scouts -- recited poems at the rally at the Great Hall of the People in central Beijing adjacent to Tiananmen Square.
Wearing his trademark army uniform with no stars or stripes, Jiang urged the ruling Communist Party to inherit the spirit of the Long March.
"The spirit of the Long March...is a strong spiritual force that guarantees our walking from victory to victory," Jiang said, reading from a prepared statement.
The gruelling Long March slashed the Red Army's numbers to about 7,000 from 100,000, but survivors were hardened and went on to defeat and drive Chiang and his troops into exile in Taiwan at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
"The road after the revolution is even longer and the work greater and tougher," Jiang said.
Jiang has declared war on crime, corruption and poverty -- problems plaguing China today -- and embarked on a crusade to resurrect socialist ethics, which have been eroded by almost two decades of economic reforms.
He paid little tribute to his mentor, mentioning Deng only twice in his lengthy speech.
The People's Daily, mouthpiece of the Communist Party, splashed on its front page a photograph showing portraits of Jiang, Deng and chairman Mao Zedong hanging over a cultural performance on Monday evening to mark the anniversary.
Japan's biggest brokerage, Nomura Securities, posted a hefty half-year loss on Tuesday but other "Big Four" brokers turned in handsome profits due to improving business on the nation's stock market.
Nomura suffered a net parent loss of around $3 billion in the six months to September 30 after ploughing large amounts of money into helping an ailing finance firm in the Nomura group.
However, the three other big brokers posted healthy profits generally in line with their performance for the same period last year, helped by rising turnover on the Japanese stock market. The brokers have troubled affiliates too but have yet to work out detailed strategies for tackling the problem.
Executives at Daiwa Securities, Nikko Securities and Yamaichi Securities all said their firms had benefited from increased stockbroking fees and commission income from bond and stock underwriting.
Despite the net losses, analysts said Nomura was on track for better-than-expected profits this year, which would make it easier to resolve financial woes in the Nomura Group.
In the first half, Nomura's parent current profit stood at 69.87 billion yen ($618 million), more than double its 32.16 billion yen ($284 million) first-half profit a year earlier.
However, it reported a loss of 337.54 billion yen ($2.98 billion) on a net basis after providing financial support worth 371 billion yen ($3.28 billion) to the non-bank affiliate.
Parent current profit is pre-tax, and includes losses and gains on non-operating activities. Net profit is after-tax and includes extraordinary profits or losses.
Nomura's Vice President Atsushi Saito said there were no complaints from customers and shareholders about its decision to support the affiliate. Credit rating agencies have been positive about the decision as it shows a willingness to confront the problem, he said.
Nomura wants to boost its operating profits for the latter half of 1996/97 to offset the half-year net loss, he added.
Meanwhile, Hiromitsu Sogame, vice president of Japan's second-biggest broker Daiwa, said that the company wants to provide support to its non-bank affiliate in the current business year on a lump-sum basis and was working on a plan with tax officials and accountants.
In the first half, Daiwa's parent current profit rose 3.7 percent to 28.55 billion yen ($252 million). It was also in profit on a net basis. Sogame said the affiliate needs to write off more than 100 billion yen ($884 million) worth of bad assets and Daiwa will use profits from sales of shareholdings, internal reserves and current profits to provide the aid.
Masao Yuki, the vice president of third biggest broker Nikko, said the company was also considering financial support to several non-bank affiliates. However, he said one of the troubled units was jointly owned by Asahi Bank and it would take time to work out a plan.
Ryuji Shirai, deputy president at Yamaichi Securities, said his firm is expected to revise an existing restructuring plan for its non-bank financial affiliate to cut the period covered by the scheme from the current 10 years.
Nikko's parent current profits fell slightly to 22.23 billion yen ($196 million) in the first half from 25.53 billion yen ($225 million) in the year-earlier period.
Parent current profits at Yamaichi, the last of the "Big Four", rose 23 percent to 6.44 billion yen ($56.9 million) in the April-September period. Its net profit also rose.
Nomura and Daiwa did not give earnings forecasts but Nikko said that it expected a parent current profit of 60 billion yen ($530 million) in 1996/97, and Yamaichi said it projected a profit totalling 19 billion yen ($168 million).
The effects of a strike by 26,000 Canadian autoworkers will continue to ripple through General Motors Corp.'s operations even though a tentative deal was reached Tuesday after marathon talks.
GM has told about 2,000 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, car assembly plant not to report to work when their work week begins on Friday, said company spokesman Tom Klipstine.
"There are still some problems out there in terms of having enough material to keep plants running," he said.
Negotiators for the company and the Canadian Auto Workers union settled disputes over the contracting out of work and reached a tentative agreement on a new contract, putting an end to the 19-day strike.
In addition to the striking CAW members, GM has idled 19,931 workers at dozens of assembly and parts plants in the U.S. and Mexico that depend on the Canadian operations. That figure does not include workers such as the Lordstown employees whose scheduled shifts have yet to start.
If the deal is ratified Wednesday as expected and parts resume shipments, Klipstine said it could take until the end of next week before all of GM's affected plants are operating at pre-strike levels.
One analyst estimated the strike could end up costing the world's largest automaker about 100,000 units of straight-time production in North America.
The calculation, by CSM Forecasting in Farmington Hills, Mich., assumes that all of GM's plants are back in operation by Oct. 28, and does not include over-time production.
"There's still some operations that may go down that we may have not anticipated," said Michael Robinet, managing director of CSM, an industry consulting firm. "There's going to be some ebb and flow."
GM is expected to lose production of about 51,000 units in Canada, and 45,000 to 46,000 units in the United States, Robinet said.
Of the 51,000 units in Canada, about 40 percent are GM's popular full-size C/K pickup trucks, which are made at GM's assembly complex in Oshawa, Ontario, he said.
CAW President Buzz Hargrove told reporters during a press conference after the new pact was reached that GM could restart the Oshawa truck plant as soon as Wednesday night, after the deal is ratified.
Inventories of the trucks have been tight, and the sales effects will start showing up in the October sales numbers, analysts said.
Any market share losses to competitors, however, would be tempered by the fact that Ford Motor Co. is already running at maximum capacity for its new F-Series pickups, said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities Inc.
GM had sufficient inventories of cars that the strike is not expected to crimp those sales too much, analysts said.
Where GM could be hurt most is in new product launches. Production of the new Buick Century was previously scheduled to start at the Oshawa car plant on Nov. 4. But the strike could push that back until the middle or end of November, Robinet said.
GM's Oklahoma City, Okla., assembly plant will also be delayed another two to three weeks in starting production of the new Oldsmobile Cutlass and Chevrolet Malibu cars, because of a parts shortage due to the strike, he said.
Healy, who believes GM has lost production of about 65,000 units, estimated it will bring down the automaker's earnings by about $225 million after taxes. A strike at two Dayton, Ohio, brake plants in March cost GM $900 million.
"It's not a major disaster," Healy said. "It's not of the magnitude of Dayton."
MCI Communications Corp is ducking the trench warfare in the consumer long distance telephone market by quietly using data warehousing  to target key customers who are unlikely to flee to the enemy.
MCI Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine said these customers are looking for advanced services, preferably in a package, but have hitherto been hard to pinpoint.
"It has taken tens of millions of dollars and many years to develop profiles of customers who can be targeted in our marketing," Maine told Reuters in an interview.  
Data warehousing requires powerful computers to assemble profiles of users from thousands of individual spending decisions and was a technique first applied by retailers.
"I always tell investors it is a hidden asset you cannot put a value on," Main said.
Sales people use these profiles to sell new services to existing customers, or target those of rivals who are likely to move across for the right services -- and stay.
"We've done this for some time in the business sales force," Maine said.  
The main enemy is churn, the tendency for some customers to switch between providers, which wastes all the marketing, promotional and administrative money spent recruiting them.
Third quarter results on Tuesday from MCI showed the benefits in the business and data markets that account for two-thirds of MCI's total revenues, but it is early days to see much improvement in the consumer market.
MCI said churn was higher than a year ago in the consumer market, but lower than in the second quarter.  
While AT&amp;T Corp slugs it out with tiny but tenacious resellers in a costly battle for customers using millions of dollars in promotional ammunition, MCI has cut its promotional spending for customer sign-ons by 70 percent from a year ago.
Maine said MCI One, a service package on one bill, has no sign-on bonus but half of new users take the Internet service. MCI One users are five times as likely to take cellular and calling cards than when services are billed separately.  
It is not just a land war. MCI has cross promotions with Northwest Airlines, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines Inc, seeing overlaps between frequent fliers and heavy users of calling cards and wireless services.
Offering free air miles is much cheaper than offering cash, but just as alluring to certain markets.
"Our line-up gives us access to 70 percent of frequent fliers," said Maine.
Maine said that AT&amp;T and Sprint Corp have been mining their databanks too, and the whole industry will have a headstart against the regional Bells, which are much newer to the game, when markets are all open to competition.
Despite all its data warehousing, MCI still makes errors.
MCI said it is in the process of revamping its paging services, which resell the networks of Paging Network Inc and Mobile Telecommunications Technologies Corp after it discovered heavy churn.
Paging customers in the third quarter fell to 342,000 from 474,000 the previous quarter, and are expected to be lower in the fourth quarter too before a recovery seen for 1997. -- New York Newsroom  212 859 1712
Eli Lilly &amp; Co expects marketing and administration costs in the fourth quarter to be only slightly up or flat versus the year-ago level, marking a slowdown from a third-quarter jump of 6.5 percent.
The line item "may be up a couple percent, but certainly below the growth rates we showed in the third quarter," Lilly chief financial officer Charles Golden said in an interview.
Lilly's gross profit margin declined again in the third quarter, partly due to increased marketing costs for launching new products, such as the anti-schizophrenia drug Zyprexa.  
Zyprexa is one of a handful of new, higher-margin products that will begin to lift sales in the fourth quarter, but a margin trend turnaround is likely further off, Golden said.
"I think it's going to be sometime next year. I'm not sure it's in the next quarter," Golden said of improved margins.
Gross margin has declined for two consecutive quarters.
Other than that, analysts greeted Lilly's third-quarter results with a positive tone.
"I didn't see any real big surprises in these numbers," said NatWest Securities drug industry analyst John Lamberton.  
Lilly's third-quarter operating profits of $0.64 per share, versus $0.54 per share in 1995, were precisely in line with Wall Street expectations, said Deutsche Morgan Grenfell analyst Mariola Haggar.
The company said an 11-percent sales gain was led by the anti-depressant Prozac, the human insulin Humulin and increased revenues from the PCS Health Systems unit.
Shares in Lilly were up 1/2 to 69-1/4 on Tuesday after the Indianapolis-based drugmaker reported an 18-percent gain in third-quarter earnings over the year-ago period.  
In the fourth quarter, Golden said, Lilly will likely lose a small benefit to earnings per share stemming from a decline in outstanding shares versus the prior year. That benefit, caused by the split-off of Guidant Corp last year, boosted third-quarter earnings by five percent.
"We will lose that in the fourth quarter ... You're talking a penny or two per share," he said.
In the fourth quarter, the company will also lose a small boost to earnings from a lower tax rate that lifted third-quarter earnings slightly compared with the prior year.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Whoever takes over from Robert Allen as chairman and chief executive of AT&amp;T Corp has a major task on hand to wake the sleeping giant, reverse its loss of market share and move strongly into new market opportunities.
"You need to do something to increase the growth rate at the margin, to throw out this rearguard mentality," said analyst Bill Deatherage of brokers Bear Stearns.
AT&amp;T's core long distance market share has fallen to 55 percent from 60 percent in two years, while it has failed to capitalize profitably on the growth of new areas.  
"They need to get away from the price game; they cannot win that way," said Chris Landis, a consultant at TeleChoice Inc, and a former AT&amp;T executive.
While AT&amp;T made the right move into wireless with the purchase of McCaw Cellular, the integration of the products on one invoice is very important and has yet to happen.
"You need someone who can sell a bill because that is how you communicate with your customer," said Landis.  
Whoever is recruited to fill the vacant slot of chief operating officer, created when Alex Mandl left in August, will expect to take over as chief executive and chairman from Allen quickly, and will insist on a firm timetable.
"The problem is going to be getting the talent you need while Bob Allen is still around," said Landis.
Sources close to the company say AT&amp;T has narrowed down its search to a shortlist of eager candidates -- none yet identified in the press -- but say an announcement is unlikely until the latter part of the week at the earliest.  
Television channel CNBC said Tuesday that Ameritech Corp's Richard Notebaert is the latest to emerge as a possible successor to Allen.  Ameritech said chief executive Notebaert was abroad and unavailable for immediate comment.
As a regional Bell chief executive he has powerful credentials for the post, but it remains unclear whether AT&amp;T's search is focused within the industry, or would be broadened to a candidate with powerful marketing skills from some other industry.  AT&amp;T, and the two executive search firms involved, Korn Ferry International and Spencer Stuart, have declined comment consistently on the succession issue.  
However, while the guessing game over successors has held sway in the press, it has been a snooze for investors, said analyst Bill Deatherage of brokers Bear Stearns.
"This is discussed much more in the press than by investors," Deatherage said.
He said that even if investors knew the candidate, it would be months at least before he or she would be able to have a discernible effect on the huge inertia in the corporation.
Some analysts have suggested that Allen may stay on as chairman while the new recruit rapidly steps up to become chief executive, but Landis thought Allen's continued presence would overshadow the new executive.
"Insiders would much rather see Bob Allen leave sooner than later and it could be his best act to show his love for the company," he said. -- New York Newsroom 212 859 1610
Shares of leading U.S. technology companies, already trading near all-time highs, languished on Tuesday as quarterly earnings raised concern that growth would be strong enough to push them to new peaks.
Intead, the sector was raked by profit-taking after a strong run-up in stock prices earlier in the fall season.
Several analysts and traders expressed concern over the lagging performance of top issues such as Microsoft Corp and International Business Machines Corp, which have taken hits even after healthy earnings reports.  
Microsoft was down 2-3/8 at 131-1/2 Tuesday, despite third quarter earnings that beat expectations by a nickel a share.
IBM slid 1-1/2 at 128-1/2, the day after it reported quarterly earnings two cents above the Wall Street consensus.
Intel Corp was trading 2-5/16 points lower Tuesday at 105-7/16, continuing a retreat from the record level of 114-1/4 it hit after its earnings release last week.
"Some companies are doing better (earnings-wise) and stocks are trading down," said one trader. "Not that there's anything we have seen in the quality of earnings or the outlooks coming from a lot of major companies," he said.  
But other analysts argued that the lack of follow-through on recent share gains showed appropriate concern over valuations on the stocks, which had enjoyed a healthy rebound after the beating they took in early summer.
"They had a big run and they basically delivered what they are supposed to deliver," said James Cramer, president of trading firm Cramer &amp; Co.
IBM stock, for example, had been trading at record highs for the year recently. It reached above 135 at one point on Monday, a record intraday level for the past several years.  
"These stocks have come very far in a short amount of time," said Phil Orlando, market strategist for Value Line Asset Management of the sector's lagging share prices.
"We have just got earnings out of the way and now we are going to take some profits," he said of the market's reaction.
Other analysts noted how several once high-flying computer stocks have yielded disappointments this earnings season.
Silicon Graphics Inc shares suffered a pounding last week after it reported a net loss. The stock was down 1/4 of a point on Tuesday afternoon at 19-7/8, a new year-low.  
Earlier on Tuesday, Digital Equipment Corp reported a loss in its latest quarter of $0.48, well below the estimated loss of $0.14 per share analysts had been expecting. Digital was trading at a new year low of 29-1/8, off 5-1/4.
Sun Microsystems Inc was down 2-13/16 at 57-1/2 on Tuesday, continuing a decline seen since it disappointed investors last week by failing to deliver the strong upside earnings surprise now demanded of such high-growth companies.
Prior to Sun's report, the stock had reached above 70, or 30 percent above its level in the first week of September.  
A few analysts speculated that the lack of follow-through as expressed in share price gains may be tied to a retincence by technology executives to offer guidance on the future and thereby offer fresh reasons to propel these stocks forward.
Last week, officials at industry bellwether Intel refused to offer their typical outlook on industry trends, citing fears of shareholder lawsuits that might result if a California ballot proposal were to pass in November.
But others heaped scorn on the idea that possible passage of state initiative Proposition 211 was in any way depressing the stocks.  
"Proposition 211 is irrelevant to the market activity we are seeing," said John Kinnucan, a technology stock portfolio manage with Strome, Susskind Investment Management LP in Santa Monica, Calif.
"The reason is that people are looking at the quarterly financial results and the share price valuations and they see a mismatch," he said.
Kinnucan said it was reasonable to question the valuations of even a premier name like Microsoft, shares of which he noted have appreciated more than 1000 since late 1992.
"What would be of concern would be if people weren't asking questions about the valuations of these stocks," he said.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
WorldCom Inc. said Monday it will acquire MFS Communications Co. Inc. in a stock swap worth about $14 billion, creating a giant international business communications company.
The combined company, to be called MFS WorldCom, will provide "a single source for a full range of local, long distance, Internet and international service over an advanced fiber optic network," Worldcom said.
The merged company will have current annualized revenue of about $5.4 billion, with more than 500,000 business customers throughout North America, Europe and Asia. It will have an end-to-end fiber optic network with 25,000 miles of fiber in service or under construction connecting all major metropolitan areas in the United States.
"We are creating the first company since the breakup of AT&amp;T to bundle together local and long distance services carried over an international end-to-end fiber network owned or controlled by a single company," said Bernard J. Ebbers, president and CEO of WorldCom.
The deregulation of the telecommunications industry early this year promises to bring end-to-end service, but neither AT&amp;T Corp. nor any regional Bell can yet achieve it because of regulatory checklists and negotiating tussles.
"We think this gives us at least a two-year headstart over our competitors," Ebbers said in an interview.
The merger comes only weeks after MFS' $2 billion purchase of UUNET Technologies Inc. was completed on Aug. 12. That merger created a single source for Internet, voice, data and video services over an international fiber optic grid. MFS' stock has risen 41 percent a year since it went public three years ago.
In the latest deal, which was unanimously approved by both companies' boards, each share of MFS common stock will be exchanged for 2.1 shares of WorldCom common stock.
"As of Friday's closing, the merger consideration for MFS stock is approximately $14 billion," the statement said.
MSF's stock leaped $10 to $44.875 on Nasdaq in late trading.
However, worries that the deal was too generous hit Worldcom's stock, which has soared an average of 57 percent a year over the last 10 years. It fell $3.75 to $22.625 on Nasdaq after the company said the merger would dilute earnings for three years.
Although the transaction was valued at $55.39 per WorldCom share based on Friday's closing price, the steep drop in WorldCom's stock brought the value down to $47 per share, traders said.
"Over time, I think the deal will be viewed very positively, but it will take time," one takeover trader said.
Omaha, Neb.-based MFS is a major provider of communications services for business and government. Its local networks in dozens of major U.S. cities enable it to outflank the regional Bells' lock on access to local business customers, giving it a strong bargaining position in the merger.
"He (Ebbers) had the only one sizable company to merge with whose stock we really wanted (to own)," James Crowe, chief executive of MFS, told reporters.
Despite the substantial stock premium for MFS, savings would soon cover the cost of the deal, Ebbers said.
Jackson, Miss.-based WorldCom said it expects significant cost savings from reduced line and access costs. The deal will also eliminate duplication of capital spending programmes and position the combined company to take full advantage of the recent easing of telecommunications laws, it said.
Specifically, MFS no longer has to build a $500 million intercity network, because WorldCom already has one. WorldCom will not have to take a share in a $450 million transatlantic cable for its expanding international business because MFS is already a partner in one.
Ebbers said access charges that Worldcom pays to local telephone companies to reach their local customers would drop because MFS already has local lines to businesses in 45 U.S. cities, rising to 85 cities in two years.
UUNET, the internet service provider that MFS bought earlier this month, will have the biggest savings.
WorldCom said the companies hope to close the latest merger in four to eight months, subject to federal regulatory approval. Shareholders will vote on the deal at special meetings.
Worldcom said in a separate statement that it has adopted a shareholder rights plan to discourage a hostile takeover. It said move was not affected by the deal with MFS.
Just as the submarine changed the face of naval warfare in World War Two, Europe's shipbuilders are hoping a new breed of "stealth" warships will do the same in the 21st century.
At a trade fair at Le Bourget airport, north of Paris, three shipbuilders presented their own version of combat ships with the ability to hide and deceive the enemy.
Britain's Vosper Thornycroft on Tuesday unveiled its design for the futuristic Sea Wraith corvette.
"We believe it has the potential to make other vessels of its class obsolete," Brian Spilman, Vosper's manager of future projects shipbuilding, told a news conference at the Euronaval exhibition, which gathers the world's navies.
BAeSema, a joint venture between British Aerospace and France's Sema Group, presented its Cougar corvette on Monday.
And French state-owned DCN shipyard presented its La Fayette frigate which it boasted was the first operational warship fully to use stealth features in its design.
Unlike the first two, designed for patrolling regional waters, the French ship is a full-scale deep-water frigate.
Stealth warships use similar principles to the radar-beating technology developed by the U.S. aircraft industry and used in the 1991 Gulf War against Iraq. The diamond-shaped F117 and batwing B2 bombers were designed to absorb or deflect radar.
Built in flat, angular shapes, stealth warships are "platforms" for weapons and detection systems.
The La Fayette uses a slab-sided superstructure and non-metallic materials to confuse radar. The second of eight La Fayette-class ships ordered by Taiwan entered service last week, while Saudi Arabia has also ordered the French ship.
The British are in hot pursuit with their own designs for a new generation of stealth vessels.
"We believe this is the warship of the future and all warships will need to use these techniques," Vosper's Spilman said. "We have made it difficult to detect, classify and engage with a missile," he told the news conference.
The Sea Wraith design puts the distinctive clutter of mast, radar dishes and aerials inside flat-sided towers and has shaped topsides, rather like diamond facets, to make it hard for radar to lock on. It also uses non-reflective composites.
Sea Wraith can alter its "radar signature" by lowering or raising the mast, making it difficult to recognise the craft. Two asymetrically-located masts are meant to confuse radar-guided missiles.
To counter new infra-red, or heat-seeking, missiles, the ship sprays a fine mist of water to conceal itself.
BAeSema is showcasing its low angular Cougar patrol vessel, which uses low-acoustic waterjet propulsion instead of traditional noisy engines which are easily picked up by sonar.
The basic Cougar "hull-in-the-water", excluding weapons and other systems, costs around 30 million sterling ($37.56 million), according to Keith Figg, the craft's designer.
BAe last week announced it was merging its naval systems activities into BAeSema, to boost its prime contractor role.
Prime contractors bid for contracts in which integration of radar, communications and defence provide the added value.
BAeSema would act as prime contractor while the ship would typically be built in the customers' own shipyards.
"We're going for indigenous building and procurement, which would be a more cost-effective solution and involve ownership at an earlier stage" Figg said.
South East Asian delegations have shown interest in both the Cougar and Sea Wraith, company executives said. "We view that part of the world as a very important market," Spilman said.
Strong economic growth and regional rivalries particularly over natural resources and territorial waters have fuelled an arms race in South-East Asia.
French defence electronics group Thomson-CSF is the prime contractor for the La Fayette under Sawari 1 and 2 contracts signed with Saudi Arabia.
($1=.7986 Sterling)
Just as the submarine changed the face of naval warfare in World War Two, Europe's shipbuilders are hoping a new breed of "stealth" warships will do the same in the 21st century.
At a trade fair at Le Bourget airport, north of Paris, three shipbuilders presented their own version of combat ships with the ability to hide and deceive the enemy.
Britain's Vosper Thornycroft on Tuesday unveiled its design for the futuristic Sea Wraith corvette.
"We believe it has the potential to make other vessels of its class obsolete," Brian Spilman, Vosper's manager of future projects shipbuilding, told a news conference at the Euronaval exhibition, which gathers the world's navies.
BAeSema, a joint venture between British Aerospace and France's Sema Group, presented its Cougar corvette on Monday.
And French state-owned DCN shipyard presented its La Fayette frigate which it boasted was the first operational warship fully to use stealth features in its design.
Unlike the first two, designed for patrolling regional waters, the French ship is a full-scale deep-water frigate.
Stealth warships use similar principles to the radar-beating technology developed by the U.S. aircraft industry and used in the 1991 Gulf War against Iraq. The diamond-shaped F117 and batwing B2 bombers were designed to absorb or deflect radar.
Built in flat, angular shapes, stealth warships are "platforms" for weapons and detection systems.
The La Fayette uses a slab-sided superstructure and non-metallic materials to confuse radar. The second of eight La Fayette-class ships ordered by Taiwan entered service last week, while Saudi Arabia has also ordered the French ship.
The British are in hot pursuit with their own designs for a new generation of stealth vessels.
"We believe this is the warship of the future and all warships will need to use these techniques," Vosper's Spilman said. "We have made it difficult to detect, classify and engage with a missile," he told the news conference.
The Sea Wraith design puts the distinctive clutter of mast, radar dishes and aerials inside flat-sided towers and has shaped topsides, rather like diamond facets, to make it hard for radar to lock on. It also uses non-reflective composites.
Sea Wraith can alter its "radar signature" by lowering or raising the mast, making it difficult to recognise the craft. Two asymetrically-located masts are meant to confuse radar-guided missiles.
To counter new infra-red, or heat-seeking, missiles, the ship sprays a fine mist of water to conceal itself.
BAeSema is showcasing its low angular Cougar patrol vessel, which uses low-acoustic waterjet propulsion instead of traditional noisy engines which are easily picked up by sonar.
The basic Cougar "hull-in-the-water", excluding weapons and other systems, costs around 30 million sterling ($37.56 million), according to Keith Figg, the craft's designer.
BAe last week announced it was merging its naval systems activities into BAeSema, to boost its prime contractor role.
Prime contractors bid for contracts in which integration of radar, communications and defence provide the added value.
BAeSema would act as prime contractor while the ship would typically be built in the customers' own shipyards.
"We're going for indigenous building and procurement, which would be a more cost-effective solution and involve ownership at an earlier stage" Figg said.
South East Asian delegations have shown interest in both the Cougar and Sea Wraith, company executives said. "We view that part of the world as a very important market," Spilman said.
Strong economic growth and regional rivalries particularly over natural resources and territorial waters have fuelled an arms race in South-East Asia.
French defence electronics group Thomson-CSF TCFP.PA is the prime contractor for the La Fayette under Sawari 1 and 2 contracts signed with Saudi Arabia.
($1=.7986 Sterling)
France Telecom chairman Michel Bon said on Tuesday the French operator wanted to grow internationally in order to offset the impact of competition in France.
"We will not enjoy all the market growth in France," Bon told a news briefing.
From 1998, France Telecom will lose its monopoly position entirely and both Generale des Eaux and Bouygues have formed international alliances to take it on.
France Telecom officials said the group aimed to generate at least 10 percent of its sales abroad.
Bon, in Belgium for the inauguration of the country's second mobile telecommunications operator, Mobistar, said France Telecom's international policy was based on three main goals.
Firstly, the group wanted to answer the international needs of its clients. This is mainly done through the Global One joint venture with Deutsche Telekom and Sprint Corp of the United States.
Secondly, the group wants to use its know-how in building modern infrastructure networks and is setting up such networks in Latin America and Indonesia.
Thirdly, the group is looking for "new growth areas" to compensate for the impact on sales of the new competition in France, Bon said.
Mobistar, in which France Telecom has a majority stake, is part of this policy. The Beglian operator started six weeks ago and has 20,000 subscribers, aiming for a 25 percent market share in 2005.
France Telecom hopes to hear in November that a consortium it leads has won a GSM licence in Romania and the group is in negotiations with the government of Poland.
In Poland, France Telecom is operator of an analogue network but was excluded from getting a GSM digital licence. After a state visit by French President Jacques Chirac, the situation has improved for France Telecom, but negotiations are still continuing.
In Italy, France Telecom has no ambitions in mobile telecommunications, because of the presence of state-owned TIM Omnitel, which is run by Olivetti.
France Telecom is talking with Olivetti about co-operating in Infostrada, a fixed-line venture which is bidding for the network of the Italian railways.
Silver King Communications Inc. agreed Monday to buy the Home Shopping Network (HSN) for about $1.3 billion in stock, feeding speculation that Barry Diller was getting set to launch another major television network.
Diller, who is chairman of both Silver King and Home Shopping, could be positioning his companies to compete head on with ABC, NBC, CBS and Fox, whose launch Diller spearheaded in the 1980s, industry analysts said.
The deal would reunite Silver King, which owns 12 TV stations spun off in 1992 by HSN, with its old parent.
Diller, widely known in Hollywood for leading the launch of Fox, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., had already announced plans to drop HSN programming from Silver King's stations and replace it with a traditional mix of locally oriented news, sports and other shows.
"We have a long agenda," Diller said in an interview. "By putting these companies under a common roof, we will get there quicker."
Diller said speculation that he would start a new national network was premature but he said cash generated by HSN would help Silver King pay for programming and other costs in developing its stations.
Diller declined to discuss details of Silver King's programming, saying plans will be unveiled in November or December. A Silver King spokesman said the programming would emphasise local news and sports and would appear in some markets starting in about a year.
Some executives have said Silver King, with stations in New York, Los Angeles, Miami and other leading markets, would initially target late-night and daytime slots with its own programmes. Start-up networks usually start building their programming with evening fare.
HSN, which pays fees to Silver King to broadcast its retailing shows, will seek to win more slots on cable systems as Silver King's stations convert to traditional television programming, an HSN spokesman said.
Silver King said the stock-swap merger was worth about $1.27 billion based on Friday's closing stock prices. The deal calls for each HSN shareholder to receive 0.45 of a share of Silver King common for each share of HSN stock owned.
"I think it's a very viable deal," said analyst Alvin Mirman of Commonwealth Associates. "Diller reduces Home Shopping's distribution costs immediately. That could be a much as $40 million a year."
Mirman said he expects Diller to establish another network once he has overhauled the Silver King stations, which together comprise the sixth largest TV company in the United States.
Diller is also buying Savoy Pictures, a money-losing studio that owns other television stations, for about $117 million in stock.
Although HSN, based in St. Petersburg, Fla., invented television shopping in the early 1980s and was once a favourite on Wall Street, it has fallen to number two behind QVC Inc. as its sales have stagnated at about $1 billion annually.
Still, its 24-hour programming reaches some 69 million households via cable television, broadcast station affiliates and satellite dish receivers.
Diller, a highly successful television programmer credited with the Fox network's racy and successful shows, is also expected to revive Home Shopping Network's fortunes, analysts said.
Under the terms of the deal, each share of HSN Class B stock, which has 10 votes per share and is held solely by Liberty Media Corp., will be converted into 0.54 of a share of Silver King Class B Stock.
Silver King said Liberty Media, in order to stay within rules on television-station ownership, will retain a 19.9 percent stake in HSN, under the 21 percent allowed by regulators. Liberty Media already owns a stake in Silver King.
Home Shopping Network stock rose 12.5 cents to $11.375 on the New York Stock Exchange and Silver King fell $1.50 to $28 on Nasdaq.
MCI Communications Corp. said Monday it reached a 10-year deal with NextWave Telecom Inc. that thrusts MCI into the top tier of U.S. wireless communications providers.
Under terms of the deal, MCI said it will connect its network to a system planned by NextWave to provide wireless personal communications services, giving it the capacity to offer service to more than 110 million individuals in 63 areas, including 29 of the top 50 markets.
Washington-based MCI said it will buy at least 10 billion minutes of capacity for its personal communications services from NextWave over 10 years.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Personal communications services represent the new generation of celluar communications services, allowing customers to send both voice and data transmissions over wireless telephones.
The deal will help underpin the financial future of debt-laden NextWave, which was the largest bidder in the U.S. Federal Communications Commission's auctions for "C-band" wireless radio spectrum held in early July.
NextWave, based in San Diego and New York, also plans to sell stock to the public.
For MCI, the deal enables it to expand quickly into the rapidly growing market for wireless personal communications services.
Two years ago, MCI dropped out of the auctions for PCS licences after the bidding became too rich for its taste. But with the NextWave pact and previous smaller deals, MCI has moved to become a major reseller of wireless services.
As part of the deal announced Monday, NextWave selected MCI to provide telecommunications and other services supporting the development and ongoing operations of its personal communications services system, MCI said.
Among the major markets where Nextwave has licenses are New York, Los Angeles, Washington D.C. and Baltimore, Boston and Denver.
"This agreement with NextWave establishes an immediate nationwide PCS footprint for MCI and represents an important next step in MCI's wireless strategy," said Whitey Bluestein, vice president for MCI wireless strategy and development.
"This is the first full interconnection agreement of its kind and brings new competition to the wireless marketplace," he said, noting that with full interconnection, MCI does not need to own its own wireless facilities.
Industry analysts expect to see some ferocious price-cutting in wireless telephone as competition heats up, and the latest deal will make it even more intense.
"It is going to be a battle of the Goliaths," said Bill Bane, a consultant at Mercer Management Consulting.
MCI said the NextWave agreement is a model for additional agreements it expects to sign with other wireless providers as part of its wireless interconnected network strategy.
The strategy is MCI's blueprint for developing a full range of wireless services and features that will be integrated into its existing communications services.
"This was MCI's strategy all along," said Jeffrey Kagan, an Atlanta-based telecommunications industry analyst.
He said MCI has historically preferred to resell communications services initially rather than investing in its own infrastructure. Over time, the company selectively builds its own infrastructure as it proves profitable to do so.
"Reselling service was how they became a heavy hitter in long distance in the first place," Kagan said. "What their plan is, is to resell service from other providers and build networks where they see the need to do so," he said.
Kagan said MCI's deal with NextWave marks the rapid realisation of its reseller strategy. "This all of a sudden puts MCI on the wireless communications map in a big way."
MCI's plunge into the wireless market makes it a viable competitor to the several existing national players in the wireless business and is bound to heat up the competition in the increasingly crowded market for cellular services.
Other national players include AT&amp;T Corp.'s AT&amp;T Wireless unit, Sprint Corp.'s Sprint Spectrum venture with several cable companies, and PCS PrimeCo L.P., a joint venture of AirTouch Communications, Bell Atlantic Corp., NYNEX Corp. and U.S. West Communications Group.
Still, Kagan noted that AT&amp;T's wireless unit, the former McCaw Cellular business, remains twice as large as MCI's cellular business, with about 6.5 million subscribers in geographic regions covering 207 million potential customers.
MCI's deal with NextWave covers about 110 million potential customers living in a mix of metropolitan and less-densely populated areas.
MCI's stock added 75 cents to trade at $26.25 on Nasdaq in late afternoon trading.
Japan's biggest brokerage, Nomura Securities, posted a hefty half-year loss Tuesday, but other "Big Four" brokers turned in handsome profits due to improving business on the nation's stock market.
Nomura suffered a net parent loss of around $3 billion in the six months to Sept. 30 after ploughing large amounts of money into helping an ailing finance firm in the Nomura group.
However, the three other big brokers posted healthy profits generally in line with their performance for the same period last year, helped by rising turnover on the Japanese stock market. The brokers have troubled affiliates too but have yet to work out detailed strategies for tackling the problem.
Executives at Daiwa Securities, Nikko Securities and Yamaichi Securities T all said their firms had benefited from increased stockbroking fees and commission income from bond and stock underwriting.
Despite the net losses, analysts said Nomura was on track for better-than-expected profits this year, which would make it easier to resolve financial woes in the Nomura Group.
In the first half, Nomura's parent current profit stood at 69.87 billion yen ($618 million), more than double its 32.16 billion yen ($284 million) first-half profit a year earlier.
However, it reported a loss of 337.54 billion yen ($2.98 billion) on a net basis after providing financial support worth 371 billion yen ($3.28 billion) to the non-bank affiliate.
Parent current profit is pre-tax, and includes losses and gains on non-operating activities. Net profit is after-tax and includes extraordinary profits or losses.
Hiromitsu Sogame, vice president of Japan's second-biggest broker, Daiwa, said the company wants to provide support to its non-bank affiliate in the current business year on a lump-sum basis and was working on a plan with tax officials and accountants.
In the first half, Daiwa's parent current profit rose 3.7 percent to 28.55 billion yen ($252 million). It was also in profit on a net basis. Sogame said the affiliate needs to write off more than 100 billion yen ($884 million) worth of bad assets and Daiwa will use profits from sales of shareholdings, internal reserves and current profits to provide the aid.
Masao Yuki, the vice president of third-biggest broker, Nikko, said the company was also considering financial support to several non-bank affiliates. However, he said one of the troubled units was jointly owned by Asahi Bank and it would take time to work out a plan.
Nikko's parent current profits fell slightly to 22.23 billion yen ($196 million) in the first half from 25.53 billion yen ($225 million) in the year-earlier period.
Parent current profits at Yamaichi, the last of the "Big Four," rose 23 percent to 6.44 billion yen ($56.9 million) in the April-September period. Its net profit also rose.
Nomura and Daiwa did not give earnings forecasts but Nikko said that it expected a parent current profit of 60 billion yen ($530 million) in 1996/97, and Yamaichi said it projected a profit totalling 19 billion yen ($168 million).
Shares in Cable &amp; Wireless (C&amp;W) advanced on Tuesday after investors welcomed news of a deal with NYNEX of the United States and Bell Canada International to create Britain's largest cable operator.
"This was a bold strategic stroke by the (C&amp;W) chief executive," said Chris McFadden, analyst at Merrill Lynch.
The deal, which took only five weeks to complete, brings together C&amp;W's Mercury, British cable company Videotron, Bell Cablemedia and NYNEX CableComms, eclipsing Telewest as Britain's biggest cable operator.
It sent C&amp;W shares soaring, peaking at 476.5 pence before easing back to close up 25.5 at 466.5 pence.
The move is a landmark deal for C&amp;W chief executive Richard Brown, appointed five months ago, and follows the collapse of merger talks earlier this year between C&amp;W and its great rival British Telecommunications Plc.
"The logic is irrefutable...the advantages of scope and size are undoubtedly there," said Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull analyst John Tysoe.
BT said it welcomed the consolidation in the sector and analysts said the move could strengthen the telecoms giant's calls for it to be allowed to provide cable television.
But BT's shares edged lower to close down 4.5 at 353.5 pence and analysts said the new company would give BT a run for its money.
"We had a common vision of what could be done and we have done it with speed and nimbleness," Brown told Reuters. C&amp;W last month replaced BT in a major German alliance with diversified utility RWE that is seen as the main competitor to Deutsche Telekom's dominance as the German market is liberalised.
The new merged company, which will provide integrated telecommunications, information and entertainment services, will give C&amp;W's telephone company Mercury access to 18 million business and domestic customers, Brown said.
The number of homes within its sights will eclipse former market leader Telewest's two million at 2.47 million but it will not be in direct competition as the companies operate in different franchises.
Telewest's shares were boosted by the news, as analysts re-evaluated the potential in the sector, gaining 12.5 pence to close at 135.5 pence.
"This is clear evidence of confidence in the future of the U.K. cable industry," a spokesman for industry body the Cable Communications Association, said.
Around six billion pounds ($7.5 billion) has already been invested in laying out cable networks and a further six billion pounds of investment is planned, the spokesman added.
In a related deal, Videotron is being bought by Bell Cablemedia in a complex transaction involving a $338 million equity investment in Bell Cablemedia by Cable &amp; Wireless. This values Videotron at around $1.09 billion.
Once the merger and Videotron deal have been completed, Cable &amp; Wireless will own 52.6 percent of the new company -- to be called Cable &amp; Wireless Communications -- with NYNEX owning 18.5 percent and Bell Canada 14.2 percent.
The remaining 15 percent will be floated, which analysts said would give it some scarcity value, with listings planned in both London and New York, probably in about six months.
C&amp;W's Brown said he could not detail the financial aspects of the merger because of the new company's planned listing.
McFadden said cost savings should be quite significant, including tax offsets, refinancing of high-yield cable television funding and possibly through staff cuts, along with eliminating duplication in laying cables.
The new group aims to increase revenues by providing a wider range of services to existing customers, offering a combination of telecoms, broadband, data transmission, video shopping and Internet access.
It could also secure more favourable terms for programming from BSkyB, the satellite broadcaster in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has a 40 percent stake.
BSkyB shares ended down 18 pence at 678.5 pence. ($1=.7986 Pound)
China's securities authorities Tuesday ordered the takeover of a futures exchange in what analysts said was the beginning of a clean-up campaign that may leave China with only four or five large futures exchanges.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission said the Changchun United Commodity Exchange would merge with the Beijing Commodity Exchange, according to the Beijing-based Financial Times.
The Changchun exchange, which was forced to suspend trading for six months from last October after the securities authorities accused it of irregularities, would become a trading floor of the Beijing exchange, the official newspaper said.
Analysts said the merger was the first of an expected series aimed at closing many of the smaller commodities exchanges around China that have been the focus of intense market speculation.
"This shows the determination of the authorities to restrict and clean up the futures industry and is a sign of more mergers to come," said an analyst with a metals trading company active in the futures markets.
China recently launched a sweeping crackdown on its futures markets and authorities last month issued two documents stressing the need to further clean up the industry.
Rumours have circulated for weeks on the futures markets that authorities would close most of the nation's 15 exisitng commodity exchanges, mainly through mergers that would allow only four or five of the largest and best-run to survive.
The Financial Times said Changchun was selected as the first to be merged among the 15 because of rampant trading irregularities on the exchange.
Analysts said there were currently too many exchanges trading similar futures contracts, particularly cereals and metals.
But they said the takeover process would be far from easy due to opposition from local governments and a range of technical difficuties. The exchanges provided significant tax income for local governments, said one analyst, who noted that differences in the contracts and rules of trading also presented many problems for combining various exchanges.
The head of British public television broadcaster Channel 4 urged the government on Monday to reject moves to privatise the service.
Channel 4 chief executive Michael Grade said that privatisation was "on the political agenda" and called on the government to "dispel this nonsense".
"The board of Channel 4 is going to fight this all the way," Grade told a meeting at the Edinburgh International Television Festival.
Free marketeers in the ruling Conservative party have suggested that Channel 4 could be put up for sale but privatisation is not currently part of government policy. Its advocates want it included in the Conservative manifesto for the general election due by next May.
Channel 4, set up in 1982 with a brief to transmit innovative and minority programming, is a statutory, state-controlled, corporation funded by advertising.
Its funding contrasts with state-controlled British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), which is funded by a licence fee payable by everybody who owns a television set.
"We are the nursery for talent without one penny of public subsidy. I defy the Treasury to produce a justification for chucking this achievement down the drain," said Grade.
He said that privatisation would spell the end for Channel 4 in its current form and force it to become more mainstream.
"The only honest approach is to admit that a one-off Treasury "bank raid" can only be executed by making Channel 4 just another commercial network like ITV or Channel 5."
Grade highlighted Channel 4's promotion of the British film industry. Its support and funding has helped to produce recent international box-office hits like "Four Weddings And A Funeral" and "Trainspotting".
Recent reports have suggested that the sale of Channel 4 could raise as much as two billion pounds.
However, Anthony Fry from merchant bank BZW told the conference he was "totally unpersuaded" that Channel 4 was worth anything like as much as that.
Political opposition to the BBC's call for more public funding lent added urgency on Monday to joint venture talks between the corporation and two rival pay television groups.
The two rivals for the BBC's hand are U.S.-controlled cable and satellite programmer Flextech and satellite broadcaster BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is the largest shareholder.
Both want to launch new subscription channels based on the BBC's wealth of quality programming.
The BBC is under increased pressure to beef up its commercial activities after politicians criticised its demand for an above-inflation licence fee increase.
BBC Director-General John Birt used a speech at the Edinburgh International Television Festival on Friday to launch the campaign for what he said would be the first real increase in the licence fee since 1985.
The fee, fixed by the government and payable by all television set owners, is 89.50 pounds ($139.1) annually.
Birt argued that more money was needed to ensure the BBC remains "the touchstone of quality" in the digital era.
But politicians from both main political parties appear opposed to his appeal. With a general election due by next May, party strategists believe it would be folly to support a rise.
The BBC is seeking to preserve its place at the heart of the broadcasting world as the industry gears up for a new era.
Digital technology -- in which images are transmitted as a series of binary digits rather than as varying electric signals as under the existing analogue method -- will soon make hundreds of extra channels available.
The BBC, with its huge library and production facilities, is an ideal partner for companies such as Flextech and BSkyB as they seek to compile attractive programme packages.
The BBC plans to offer a 24-hour news channel, supplementary programming and wide-screen tranmission to all licence fee payers in the digital era. Joint-venture subscription channels in areas such as drama and natural history would help fund this expansion.
The BBC reported a net benefit of 77 million pounds from commercial activity last year -- small beer compared with the 1.8 billion pounds generated by the licence fee. It is aiming to treble commercial income over the next few years.
Media industry analysts say that Flextech is in a strong position in talks with the BBC.
The two are already partners in UK Gold, a subscription channel showing vintage shows. British media group Pearson and Cox Communications of the U.S are also partners in UK Gold but Flextech is in talks to buy them out.
It could also unlock the lucrative north American market for the BBC as its parent, Tele-Communications Inc (TCI), is the largest cable television group in the United States.
A report in Sunday's Observer quoted Adam Singer, head of TCI's international division, as saying they would want any new Flextech-BBC channels to be carried on BSkyB's network as it has the widest distribution for pay channels in Britain.
But BSkyB, which is planning to launch digital satellite services offering some 200 channels in late 1997, would clearly prefer to deal directly with the BBC.
It could use its financial muscle to make the cash-strapped BBC an offer which the corporation would find hard to refuse.
($1=.6436 Pound)
Five major high tech giants, including Compact Disk inventors Philips Electronics NV and Sony Corp. will on Wednesday unveil details of a new "CD-ReWriteable" (CD-RW) technology.
The technology is due to bring re-recordable CD devices to the market in the early months of 1997 at prices below $1,000, and should begin being built into top-end computers next year.
The new format will enable users to store 450 times as much data, including video and audio recordings, as a 3.5 inch floppy diskette and is designed to be compatible with new CD-ROM readers and upcoming DVD-ROM drives.
"ReWritable removes the single biggest barrier to greater market acceptance of CD writing technology," said Dave Deane, Future CD Writer Product Manager at Hewlett-Packard Co.'s HWP. Colorado Memory Systems division in Loveland, Co.
Hewlett-Packard, Mitsubishi Chemical Corp. and Ricoh Co. Ltd. are the other companies unveiling the new technology, which has been 18 months in the works.
Analysts said the CD-ROM technology could eventually pressure other storage companies like Iomega Corp. whose revenues have soared on the popularity of its 100 megabyte Zip drives and other storage products, and struggling removeable hard drive maker SyQuest Technology Inc..
"I think this would put some pressure on SyQuest type products," said Ray Freeman, president of Freeman Associates Inc. a Santa Barbara market research firm.
"This is a higher-capacity product, so it's not going head-to-head," he said, noting that Compact Disks store up to 650 megabytes of data, a larger capacity than Iomega and SyQuest offer on their lower-end consumer-oriented models.
Because the new technology standard is designed to work with common CD-ROM readers and the new DVD-ROM technology, Freeman said its introduction was "an important step in a continuum," following CD-Recordable, a technology on the market since 1991 that allows once-only recording.
Freeman projects the CD-Recordable market will hit 1.3 million units this year, and the combined CD-Recordable and CD-ReWriteable market will more than double to 2.9 million units in 1997 and, combined with DVD systems, grow to 10.65 million in 2000.
Rob van Eijk, director of strategic marketing at Philips' Philips Laser Optics North America, in San Jose, Calif., said the new CD technology is aimed more at the space occupied by 100 million CD-ROMs than the floppy disk space.
The small office home office market and the high end home or small office markets are viewed as key markets for the technology as well, he added, saying the compatibility with other media made it a versatile technology.
Both Philips and Hewlett-Packard expect to offer devices in the first quarter of 1997 which would be under the $1,000 price point, but at a sizeable premium to the CD-Recordable write-once equipment now selling for as low as $499.
Hewlett-Packard's Deane said his company had reached the conclusion that without the new CD-ReWritable technology, "the potential market would top out at a fairly low number."
Cable and telecoms giants Cable &amp; Wireless, NYNEX Corp of the U.S. and Bell Canada International on Tuesday announced the formation of a major new British cable player by merging the operations of their British subsidiaries.
This brings together C&amp;W's Mercury, British cable company Videotron, Bell Cablemedia and NYNEX CableComms.
In a related deal, Videotron is being bought by Bell Cablemedia in a complex deal which involves a $338 million equity investment in Bell Cablemedia by Cable &amp; Wireless and values Videotron at around $1.09 billion.
Videotron, which was already 26 percent owned by Bell Cablemedia, was the target of a long-running takeover battle, with Cable &amp; Wireless emerging as favourite.
Recent reports said German telecoms group Deutsche Telekom and International CableTel of the U.S. were also interested in taking it over.
Once the merger and the Videotron deal have been completed, Cable &amp; Wireless will own 52.6 percent of the new company - to be called Cable &amp; Wireless Communications - with NYNEX owning 18.5 percent and Bell Canada 14.2 percent of the shares. The remaining 15 percent will floated, C&amp;W told Reuters.
The groups intend to list the company, which will provide integrated telecommunications, information and entertainment services, in both London and New York. This is likely to take place in about six months, C&amp;W added.
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications "...will provide local, national, international, data and mobile telecommunications, together with multichannel television and Internet services" to around six million franchised homes and to businesses throughout Britain, the groups said in a statement.
Richard Brown, chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless, said the new company would be the only company in Britain able to offer multiple services that until now people had to get from different providers.
"Cable &amp; Wireless Communications will be the only company in the UK capable of offering a combination of telecoms, broadband, data transmission, video shopping and Internet access," Brown said in a statement.
The companies outlined a number of benefits from the new company, saying it would increase its revenues by providing a wider range of services to existing customers and increased access to a broader customer base.
It would also produce "significant cost savings" by eliminating duplication, enhancing purchasing power increasing capital expenditure efficiencies, they added.
As well as the services it will be able to offer immediately, the new company will be strategically positioned to offer new products such as interactive digital services and multi-media products "as they become available", they said.
Britain's largest cable television company was born Tuesday in the merger of the British operations of cable and telecommunications giants Cable &amp; Wireless, NYNEX Corp. of the United States and Bell Canada International.
The deal, which took only five weeks to complete, brings together C&amp;W's Mercury, British cable company Videotron, Bell Cablemedia and NYNEX CableComms, eclipsing Telewest as Britain's biggest cable operator.
It was a landmark deal for C&amp;W Chief Executive Richard Brown, appointed five months ago, and follows the collapse of merger talks earlier this year between C&amp;W and its great rival, British Telecommunications Plc.
C&amp;W last month replaced BT in a major German alliance with diversified utility RWE that is seen as the main competitor to the dominant Deutsche Telekom as the German market is being liberalised.
Brown said the merged company, which will provide integrated telecommunications, information and entertainment services, would give C&amp;W's Mercury telephone company access to a total of 18 million business and domestic customers.
Latest statistics show 30 percent of homes that can take cable after an extensive cable-laying drive beneath Britain's streets have opted for one or more cable service.
The development was welcomed by the industry, battling to compete with satellite operators such as BSkyB in television services and British Telecom in telephones.
"This is clear evidence of confidence in the future of the U.K. cable industry," said a spokesman for the Cable Communications Association, an industry group.
"The broadband fibre optic network being laid across the U.K. is the most advanced in the world for delivery to individual homes," he said, adding that around 6 billion pounds ($7.5 billion) had already been invested in building the network and another six billion of investment was planned.
In a related deal, Videotron is being bought by Bell Cablemedia in a complex transaction involving a $338 million equity investment in Bell Cablemedia by Cable &amp; Wireless. This values Videotron at around $1.09 billion.
Once the merger and the Videotron deal have been completed, Cable &amp; Wireless will own 52.6 percent of the new company -- to be called Cable &amp; Wireless Communications -- with NYNEX owning 18.5 percent and Bell Canada 14.2 percent of the shares.
The remaining 15 percent will floated and the groups intend to list the company in both London and New York. This is likely to take place in about six months.
"Cable &amp; Wireless Communications will be the only company in the U.K. capable of offering a combination of telecoms, broadband, data transmission, video shopping and Internet access," Brown said.
Stephen Pettit, executive director of European operations at C&amp;W, told Reuters Financial Television that the deal would not lead to duplication.
"Both Mercury and the cable companies had strategies to dig up the streets and lay cables and they are looking at the same streets. This gives the chance to do it once and keep the costs down as a result," he said.
British building materials company Wolseley Plc reported a one percent slip in year pretax profits on Tuesday, but despite topping analysts' forecasts in a tough market shares slid on the poor outlook for mainland Europe.
Pretax profits for the year ended July 31 fell to 242.9 million pounds ($387 million) from 245.4 million. But sales rose to 4.31 billion from 3.78 billion pounds and the dividend was raised to 10.35 pence from 9.80 last year.
The fallback in profits had been flagged in a profit warning earlier this year.
But Wolseley survived the difficult conditions better than others partly thanks to its lower European exposure. The group has 50 percent of its sales in the U.S.
Chairman Richard Ireland reported organic sales growth across all three divisions blaming the lower profits on "poor economic conditions in mainland Europe and volatile lumber prices in the U.S."
"The results for 1996 should be set against the background of economic difficulties in France and Austria and a flat home (UK) market," he said.
But in an interview with Reuters chief financial controller Stephen Webster said "I do not see an upturn in the next 12 months in France, Austria or Germany."
He denied it would seriously dampen profits this coming year, explaining that conditions remain stable.
The UK market showed a glimmer of recovery, with spending on repair and maintenance of homes moving ahead.
But Webster said the housebuilding sector had seen companies using up existing stock so there has been little feed-through to companies like Wolseley. He predicted it would be spring before the industry felt the benefits.
The finance chief also expressed concern about the threat of an interest rate hike in the U.S. "A half a percent would not be a big deal but one percent could damage confidence."
The caution in all its markets was enough to push shares lower. By 1045 GMT they were down 13 pence at 494.
The new chief executive John Young did not signal any departure from the group's existing strategy.
But Webster signalled the possibility of some change "We are keen to keep the good things. If anything it may mean a change of style. "But there are no sacred cows in Wolseley. We will take difficult decisions if needed."
Young said in the interim statement he wanted to look to expansion into new regions and products. With gearing at a low 7.7 percent, there is scope to raise it to around 30 percent if a big acquisition comes along, said Webster.
$1=.6270 Pound)
British household products group Reckitt &amp; Colman Plc pleased shareholders on Tuesday with a 152 million pound ($242 million) handout.
The group, known for brands ranging from Mr Sheen polish to Dettol disinfectant, announced a special Foreign Income Dividend (FID) of 35.65 pence per share, combined with plans to take one in every 20 of its shares out of circulation.
It said it hoped the novel scheme, which is funded from earnings made outside Britain, would avoid the tax problems which had hit other share buybacks recently.
News of the plan sent Reckitt shares soaring 18 1/2 pence to 735 by midmorning.
Reckitt said it was taking the opportunity of sharp falls in its debt to clean up its balance sheet.
The company splashed out $1 billion in 1994 to buy the U.S. household products group L&amp;F, maker of America's best-selling disinfectant, Lysol.
Since then sales of many of its non-core businesses, including the famous Colman's mustard brand, have brought in more than 430 million pounds.
"We have been looking for some time at ways to organise our balance sheet to enhance shareholder value," chief executive Vernon Sankey said in an interview.
Sankey said that the move was a clear signal to share markets that it had no major takeover target on the scale of L&amp;F in its sights.
But he added that it would not be embarrassed about going back to shareholders for cash if an opportunity came up to boost its ambition to become world number one in household products.
For the time being, Reckitt &amp; Colman is content to pursue its strategy of acquiring smaller business which fit in with its product range and extend its global reach.
These ambitions can be fulfilled from the group's strong cash generation of around 150 million pounds a year.
Sankey said the purchase of an insecticide business earlier this year with strength in China, the Middle East and Africa was a good example of this strategy and added that Reckitt had similar moves "up our sleeves." Asia, Latin America and "conceivably Africa" are favoured targets, he added.
Sankey said the choice of foreign income dividend, which is paid from the 92 percent of Reckitt's business now done outside Britain, was not influenced by Chancellor Kenneth Clarke's recent decision to restrict repayment of tax credits on special dividends which are linked to share consolidation.
"We have had to make no alterations because this is in line with the Chancellor's indications," Sankey said. "It doesn't use U.K. money, it uses money from outside the U.K." ($1=.6270 Pound)
UK leisure group Conrad Plc is seen sealing its proposed takeover of Sheffield United Football Club in three to four weeks, when details will be sent to shareholders after due diligence is complete, a senior source close to the company told Reuters.
Conrad confirmed earlier on Tuesday it was in talks with the UK soccer club about the acquisition which is expected to take the form of a reversed takeover with Sheffield floating on the London Stock Exchange. The source said: "Conrad will pay a figure approaching 10 million, but it'll be under 10 million."
Daewoo Electronics on Tuesday tried to placate French critics of its planned purchase of Thomson Multimedia with job and investment promises while calling a counter-bid "not realistic"
But Bae Soon-hoon, chairman of the South Korean company, declined to discuss financial details of the proposed takeover until the French government's decision to sell the world's fourth-biggest television maker became final.
Both the French Privatisation Commission and the European Commission still have to approve the deal.
The French government announced last week it had selected Lagardere Groupe over Alcatel Alsthom to buy state-owned Thomson SA for one franc after an 11 billion franc ($2.12 billion) capital injection.
Lagardere plans to merge its Matra Defence Espace unit with defence electronics group Thomson-CSF and sell off Thomson Multimedia (TMM) to Daewoo, also for one franc.
The French financial newspaper La Tribune on Monday suggested a rival French bid for TMM could still emerge. The Liberation daily on Tuesday said Sagem, which fell out of the race earlier on, was preparing such a bid.
Sagem denied planning a bid, however, and the idea was dismissed by Bae.
"I saw the newspaper article. I thought it was a joke," he said. "We have been working with the government for six months and have been respecting the rules of the procedure. Unless the government changes the procedure, nobody can make a proposal at the present time."
Bae said he planned to make Thomson Multimedia, reported to have made a three billion franc first half loss and to have debts of at least 14 billion, "very profitable and prosperous."
He confirmed a pledge to create 5,000 French jobs at TMM in five years, saying French labour conditions were competitive.
The partnership between Thomson Multimedia and Daewoo, which will create the world's biggest maker of televisions, video recorders and cathode ray tubes, would allow a 13 billion franc worldwide investment plan between now and 2000.
Daewoo said that would create a total of 6,600 jobs in final assembly and 2,500 jobs in component production.
Bae declined to indicate how much of Thomson Multimedia's debt Daewoo would assume but said he expected some of the state capital injection to go to TMM.
"The Daewoo group will keep a significant part of the TMM debts and has the means to do so," said Michel Jacob, managing director of Daewoo's French financial advisers Rothschild's.
Daewoo said it would keep the Thomson identity and French headquarters and would continue research and development in the French city of Rennes. It said all the group's products would be sold under Thomson brand names in Europe and the U.S.
The digital television know-how of Thomson will be put in a special joint venture with Lagardere. Bae said the joint-venture would be 50/50 owned, while Jean-Luc Lagardere said on Saturday his group would have a 51 percent majority.
The government decision to sell TMM indirectly for one franc to Daewoo has attracted fierce criticism, with Socialist Party leader Lionel Jospin saying he was "shocked".
Jacques Delors, former president of the European Commission, said at the weekend: "I would have preferred to maintain a European pole in consumer electronics."
Some Thomson labour unions have also attacked the sale of "French technology" to a South Korean company. ($1=5.199 French Franc)
The chairman of Daewoo Electronics on Tuesday tried to placate French critics of a planned acquisition of Thomson Multimedia with repeated job and investment promises and said a counter-bid was "not realistic"
But Bae Soon-hoon declined to discuss financial details of the proposed takeover until the government's decision to sell the world's fourth-biggest television maker to the South Korean company is final. Both the French Privatisation Commission and the European Commission still have to approve the deal.
The French government on Wednesday announced it had selected Lagardere Groupe over Alcatel Alsthom to buy state-owned Thomson SA for one franc after an 11 billion franc capital injection.
Lagardere plans to merge its Matra Defence Espace unit with defence electronics group Thomson-CSF while selling Thomson Multimedia (TMM) to Daewoo, also for one franc.
Bae said he would make Thomson Multimedia, reported to have made a three billion franc first half loss and to have debts of at least 14 billion francs, "very profitable and prosperous."
He confirmed a vow to create 5,000 French jobs at TMM in the five years, saying French labour conditions were competitive.
Bae said that the partnership between Thomson Multimedia and Daewoo would allow a 13 billion franc world-wide investment plan between now and the year 2000, creating 6,600 jobs in final assembly and 2,500 jobs in component production.
He declined to indicate how much of Thomson Multimedia's debt Daewoo would assume but said he expected some of the state capital injection to go to TMM.
"The Daewoo group will keep a significant part of the TMM debts and has the means to do so," said Michel Jacob, managing director of Daewoo's French financial advisers Rotschild's.
The Daewoo/Thomson combination would be the world's biggest maker of television, video recorders and cathode ray tubes.
Daewoo said it would keep the Thomson identity and French headquarters and would continue research and development at Rennes, France. It said all the group's products would be sold under Thomson brand names in Europe and the U.S.
The digital television know-how of Thomson will be put in a special joint venture with Lagardere. Bae said the joint-venture would be 50/50 owned while Jean-Luc Lagardere said on Saturday that his group would have a 51 percent majority.
The government decision to sell TMM indirectly for one franc to Daewoo has attracted fierce criticism. The leader of the Socialist Party, Lionel Jospin, said on Sunday he was "shocked" by the Thomson privatisation.
Jacques Delors, former president of the European Commission, said the same day, "I would have preferred to maintain a European pole in consumer electronics."
Some Thomson labour unions also attacked the sale of "French technology" to a South Korean company.
French financial newspaper La Tribune on Monday suggested a rival French bid was being prepared and newspaper Liberation on Tuesday said Sagem, who fell out of the race earlier on, was preparing such a bid. Sagem denied planning a bod.
"I saw the newspaper article. I thought it was a joke," Bae said. "We have been working with the government for six months and have been respecting the rules of the procedure. Unless the government changes the procedure, nobody can make a proposal at the present time," he said.
Major Japanese non-life insurance company Yasuda Fire &amp; Marine Co Ltd announced on Monday that it plans to take a majority stake in the Japanese unit of U.S. life insurance giant CIGNA Corp.
Terms of the deal, which would be the first time a Japanese non-life insurance company has purchased a life insurance subsidiary, were not disclosed.
Yasuda said it would boost its business cooperation with CIGNA Corp of the United States by taking a majority stake in CIGNA's Japanese unit, INA Life Insurance Co.
"It is the first time a Japanese non-life insurance company has taken over a life insurance company. We have cooperated over the past 15 years and that experience made this possible," Yasuda president Koichi Ariyoshi told a news conference.
Ariyoshi said the relationship between CIGNA and Yasuda was an example of private-sector cooperation between Japanese and American companies even though Washington has protested Tokyo's newly revised insurance law, which it says violates a U.S.-Japan trade agreement.
The companies began cooperating in 1981 and Yasuda acquired 10 percent of INA in July 1993, and now plans to boost that stake to more than 50 percent within the next year or two, Ariyoshi said.
Under Japan's new Insurance Business Law, which took effect on April 1, non-life insurers and life insurers are allowed to enter each other's business sectors through subsidiaries.
Japan and the United States have been at odds over the entry of Japanese insurance firms' subsidiaries into the so-called third-sector market, a lucrative niche market that covers accident insurance products, among others.
Japan's Finance Ministry is likely to put conditions on the entry of domestic insurance companies' subsidiaries into the third sector, industry sources said.
Ariyoshi did not disclose the cost of the planned purchase of INA shares. However, he added the cost was similar to what it had cost non-life insurance companies to establish life insurance subsidiaries.
Japan's 11 other non-life insurers set up life insurance subsidiaries earlier this month with share capital ranging from 10 billion yen to 30 billion yen ($92.5 million to $277 million).
The life insurance subsidiaries are expected to begin operations in October.
($1=108 yen)
China's top cashmere producer, Inner Mongolia Erdos Cashmere Products Co Ltd, reported good interim results on Monday and brokers expect a solid second half as raw material prices fall.
The company, a favoured stock among Shanghai's B share market bucked the trend of disappointing mid-term results with a 25 percent increase in profits over the same period last year to 67 million yuan ($8.07 million), despite lower revenue.
A spokesman for Erdos said he expected net profits for the year to rise to around 180 million yuan from 170 million yuan in 1995. Turnover in the first half fell to 252.7 million yuan from 349.4 million yuan.
"The jump in net profit was due to lower costs, primarily a drop in the price of raw materials in the first half of 1996," company director Guo Enzhe said in an interview.
He gave no further details but a foreign stock analyst based in Shanghai said the price of raw cashmere had fallen 15 percent from its 1995 highs.
The analyst said Erdos had indicated it had exhausted its stockpiles of 1995 raw cashmere and was replacing them with new stocks that were 15 percent cheaper.
"Generally we're fairly positive about the company," said Jardine Fleming's Shanghai representative John Crossman. "We will probably upgrade them from a hold to a buy.
"We're expecting a better second half because they're using cheaper raw materials and looking for really good stuff to happen in the first half of 1997," he added.
Analysts said a large portion of Erdos' sales to the United States and Europe were booked in the July-to-September period which should boost the company's position.
The positive effect of lower raw materials prices is expected to help the firm well into 1997.
Analysts said another factor helping to lift Erdos profits despite falling revenues was a move by the company into garment manufacturing, which has higher profit margins.
The company bought four textile manufacturing firms in the first half of the year, each of which has a 25 percent Japanese equity stake.
A company statement in the Shanghai Securities News on Monday said Erdos planned to establish five more joint ventures with domestic companies in the second half of 1996 for garment production.
Erdos shares closed on Monday at $0.506, up 0.006 on the Shanghai exchange. The shares were first listed last October at their issue price of $0.469.
($1=8.3 yuan)
The Prague Stock Exchange on Tuesday, buoyed by financial sector share gains, continued to rebounds from its recent slump, closing higher for the third consecutive session.
Komercni Banka, IPB, Ceska Sporitelna and Zivnostenska Banka all gained ground as the PX50 index edged up 2.5 points, or 0.47 percent, to 537.1.
The Reuters RPIX index, measuring the seven continuously- traded equity issues on the bourse, climbed five points to 1,095.
Overall, 188 shares rose on the day, while 121 lost and 74 held steady. Total volume was 701,356 shares on turnover of 721.14 million crowns.
For IPB, which rose 15 crowns to 331, it was the second consecutive five percent gain, the maximum allowed by the bourse in a session, after the government said it would be the first of the big four banks to undergo privatisation.
On Friday, Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik gave investors the signal they had been looking for when he said that a strong foreign strategic partner would be the most likely beneficiary of any sell off.
Since the announcement, Nomura and ING Bank have been rumoured as the frontrunners in any bid to participate in the selloff. The government holds about a 30 percent stake in IPB.
"If you were to bring in a foreign partner such as the caliber of the two banks mentioned, that addresses questions that have been hovering around IPB on its perceived lack of corporate structure and transparency," said Jay King of Wood and Company.
The bank has been widely-criticsed for being the least transparent of the four major Czech banks in its dealings, especially a recent spending spree that has seen it quietly buy large stakes in several firms.
Several utilities also fared well at the fixing, with Stredoceska Energetika, Prazska Teplarenska, Severomoravksa Energetika, Jihomoravska Energetika and Elektrarny Opatovice all rising.
Britain's largest cable operator was born on Tuesday from the merger of the British operations of cable and telecoms giants Cable &amp; Wireless, NYNEX Corp of the U.S. and Bell Canada International.
The deal, which took only five weeks to complete, brings together C&amp;W's Mercury, British cable company Videotron, Bell Cablemedia and NYNEX CableComms, eclipsing Telewest as Britain's biggest cable operator.
It is a landmark deal for C&amp;W chief executive Richard Brown, appointed five months ago, and follows the collapse of merger talks earlier this year between C&amp;W and its great rival British Telecommunications Plc.
C&amp;W last month replaced BT in a major German alliance with diversified utility RWE that is seen as the main competitor to the dominant Deutsche Telekom as the German market is being liberalised.
Brown said the merged company, which will provide integrated telecommunications, information and entertainment services, would give C&amp;W's telephone company Mercury access to a total of 18 million business and domestic customers.
Latest statistics show 30 percent of homes which can take cable after an extensive cable-laying drive beneath Britain's streets have opted for one or more cable service.
Brown said the move had been spawned by a common vision.
"We had a common vision of what could be done and we have done it with speed and nimbleness," he told Reuters.
The development was welcomed by the industry, battling to compete with satellite operators such as BSkyB in television services and British Telecom in telephones.
"This is clear evidence of confidence in the future of the UK cable industry," a spokesman for industry body the Cable Communications Association, said.
"The broadband fibre optic network being laid across the UK is the most advanced in the world for delivery to individual homes," he said, adding that around 6 billion pounds ($7.5 billion) had already been invested in building the network and a further six billion of investment was planned.
In a related deal, Videotron is being bought by Bell Cablemedia in a complex transaction involving a $338 million equity investment in Bell Cablemedia by Cable &amp; Wireless. This values Videotron at around $1.09 billion.
Once the merger and the Videotron deal have been completed, Cable &amp; Wireless will own 52.6 percent of the new company -- to be called Cable &amp; Wireless Communications -- with NYNEX owning 18.5 percent and Bell Canada 14.2 percent of the shares.
The remaining 15 percent will floated and the groups intend to list the company in both London and New York. This is likely to take place in about six months.
C&amp;W's Brown said he could not detail the financial aspects of the merger because of the new company's planned listing.
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications "...will provide local, national, international, data and mobile telecommunications, together with multichannel television and Internet services".
Brown said the new company would be the only one in Britain able to offer multiple services which people had to get from different providers until now.
"Cable &amp; Wireless Communications will be the only company in the UK capable of offering a combination of telecoms, broadband, data transmission, video shopping and Internet access."
The group aims to increase revenues by providing a wider range of services to existing customers and increased access to a broader customer base. It will also produce "significant cost savings" by eliminating duplication, enhancing purchasing power and increasing capital expenditure efficiencies.
The new company will be strategically positioned to offer new products like interactive digital services and multi-media products "as they become available", the companies said.
Stephen Pettit, executive director of European operations at C&amp;W, told Reuters Financial Television that the deal would not lead to duplication.
"Both Mercury and the cable companies had strategies to dig up the streets and lay cables and they are looking at the same streets. This gives the chance to do it once and keep the costs down as a result," he said.
Pettit said no other players could match what he described as "a unique force" in the British market.
Base-metals producer Pasminco Ltd forecast on Tuesday another tough year of cost-cutting, warning that a weak zinc market and a strong Australian dollar would make its last annual profit hard to beat.
"We are going to have a difficult year," chief executive David Stewart told reporters after delivering a subdued earnings outlook to shareholders at the group's annual meeting here.
Pasminco surprised financial markets markets in August by reporting a tripling of net profit to A$41 million for the year to June 30, despite weak prices for its major product, zinc.  
World zinc prices have not moved dramatically since then, but a stronger Australian dollar has made a major impact, dragging first quarter profit for 1996/97 lower, Stewart said.
"In the first quarter, our result...is below last year because of the impact of the (Australian) dollar," he said.
For every one-cent rise in the value of the Australian dollar against the greenback, Pasminco suffers a A$7.5 million fall in after-tax profit, Stewart said.
The local dollar on average was five cents stronger in the first quarter than its average throughout 1995/96, he added.
China has agreed not to enforce a ban on imports of U.S. poultry until after top-level quarantine talks scheduled to take place in Beijing next week, U.S. business and diplomatic sources said on Tuesday.
"We understand they (the Chinese authorities) have not issued any letter to the field banning imports, and that they will not until discussions are held," a senior diplomat in Beijing said.
China last week confirmed a ban on imports of poultry and poultry products from 10 U.S. states because of fears of a fowl plague known as highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI).
China is the second biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products and is its only market for chicken feet.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled US$445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council. The states affected are Arkansas, Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Texas, Utah and Wisconsin.
A two-man delegation from Washington's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) would arrive in Beijing on Monday for talks with China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ) on Wednesday, the diplomatic source said.
"We have been told they will hold off on any action until then," he said of the ban.
News of the ban surfaced on October 10, when the U.S. agriculture attache in Beijing confirmed to his head office that China feared U.S. poultry products bore the HPAI virus.
U.S. officials say U.S. poultry is free of HPAI virus and that Chinese quarantine personnel are confused about the difference between HPAI and avian influenza, or AI.
"We don't know what they identified," an APHIS official told Reuters.
"All we can say is that HPAI is not found in the U.S. The last time it was found (in 1984) it was eradicated and since then we have had no reports of HPAI at all."
AI is prevalent the world over, especially in wild fowl, and had not been isolated in commercial U.S. poultry flocks, he and other U.S. sources said.
"AI is not a concern for vets -- it's like the common cold and is not quarantinable," the APHIS source said.
U.S. and meat industry sources said the HPAI virus had been detected in ostrich breeding stock in the United States destined for ostrich farms in China.
During a trip to Texas by CAPQ personnel to look at U.S. ostriches, 22 birds had tested positive for HPAI, a U.S. source said.
A positive test did not necessarily mean the bird was ill with HPAI, he said, likening it to a tuberculosis skin test which, if positive, did not indicate definitively the presence of TB.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843-6352
China on Tuesday slammed Taiwan for failing to crack down on a new opposition party seeking independence for the island and warned that separatism was "a road to death".
"Not only do the Taiwan authorities fail to ban the formation of the Taiwan Independence Party, but they also tolerate it," a spokesman for the Taiwan Affairs Office under the State Council, or cabinet, said.
"The self-proclaimed anti-independence stand of the Taiwan authorities is a double-faced practice that deceives others as well as themselves," the official People's Daily quoted the spokesman as saying.
Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a rebel province since Mao Zedong's Red Army defeated and drove Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops into exile in Taiwan at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
A group of Taiwanese activists plan to break away from Taiwan's main opposition party and form the Taiwan Independence Party on December 12.
China has threatened to invade if Taiwan declared independence. China conducted missile tests and war games off Taiwan last March in the run-up to the island's first direct presidential elections to cow Taipei into abandoning any dreams of independence.
"Taiwan independence is a road to death that cannot be walked because it is blocked," the spokesman said.
The spokesman described the party as a "reactional political organisation" with the explicit purpose of splitting the motherland.
"The Taiwan authorities should adopt realistic anti-independence action as soon as possible. Compatriots on the two sides are waiting to see," the spokesman said.
"The Chinese government and the Chinese people will definitely not sit back idly and do nothing about it," the spokesman warned.
"Their scheme will never succeed," he said of the new party's drive for independence.
Taiwan says it is committed to reunification, but stresses that this cannot be achieved overnight and says China must democratise.
Beijing's criticism came a day after Taiwanese President Lee Teng-hui blamed China for deadlocked relations between the two.
Referring to the Communist authorities, Lee said in a speech on Monday: "They adopted a hegemonic attitude and stubborn policy toward Taiwan, singlehandedly blocked the development of history and caused the stalemate of cross-Strait relations."
The island maintains an official policy of anti-independence, but has decriminalised advocacy of independence, saying such calls are within the bounds of freedom of speech.
Ties between Beijing and Taipei, which began to thaw in the late 1980s, took an icy plunge after a landmark, private visit by Lee to the United States in June 1995.
China, which has sought to push Taiwan into diplomatic isolation, saw the trip as a bid to raise the island's international profile.
Beijing has stepped up its reunification overture in recent months, calling for political talks to end almost five decades of hostility.
China unilaterally introduced a series of regulations last August to pave the way for direct shipping links with Taiwan.
Taiwan has banned direct air and shipping links with China since 1949, but allows indirect links through Hong Kong or third countries. Taiwan is reluctant to lift the ban lest the island become an economic hostage to China.
The United Auto Workers union is discussing the possibility of an extended five- or six-year contract with the nation's largest automakers, UAW and company officials said Monday.
The union is open to the idea of a contract longer than the typical three-year pact if it offers significant job security guarantees, officials said.
"It has surfaced in the subcommittees," said Carl Dowell, president of UAW Local 862 in Louisville, Ky. "There was no problem with a longer-term agreement if it's fruitful for our people. Job security is the key."
Contract talks with General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. resumed Monday after meetings late last week between UAW President Stephen Yokich and the automakers' chairmen.
The UAW has not yet chosen which company it will negotiate a pattern agreement with. Yokich said last week that he delayed the union's traditional choice of a "strike target" to allow the negotiating progress to continue at all three companies.
A UAW spokesman said no decision on a target company is expected this week.
Traditionally, the target is threatened with a national strike on the contract expiration date if no agreement is reached by then. The current pact, covering about 400,000 U.S. hourly workers at the three automakers, expires September 14.
Ford spokesman Jon Harmon said the automaker suggested to the UAW about three weeks ago that both sides should examine possibly negotiating a longer-term contract.
He said a longer agreement would stabilise Ford's future costs, allowing it to evaluate future product and investment decisions more accurately. "It gives you more of a known quantity," he said.
Yokich has said he would be open to a longer contract if the automakers "want to buy it."
However, many UAW officials remain sceptical about a longer-term pact and say that removal of a strike threat every three years could invite abuses by the automakers.
"The question is how can GM live up to a five-year agreement when they can't live up to a three-year agreement?" said Ed McNulty, president of UAW Local 14 at GM's Toledo, Ohio, truck transmission plant.
Such an agreement would have to provide a mechanism for enforcement of the contract and for revisions to resolve local issues over sourcing and staffing levels that are sure to arise over the life of the contract, he said.
GM has been hit by several strikes at individual plants over the current three-year contract over sourcing and jobs.
"You're going to have to have some good job security and outsourcing provisions for the membership to go for it," McNulty said.
Just as the submarine changed the face of naval warfare in World War Two, Europe's shipbuilders are hoping a new breed of "stealth" warships will do the same in the 21st century.
At a trade fair at the business airport of Le Bourget, north of Paris, three shipbuilders were presenting their own version of combat ships with the ability to hide and deceive the enemy.
British shipbuilder Vosper Thornycroft was due on Tuesday to unveil its design for the Sea Wraith corvette at the Euronaval exhibition, which gathers the world's navies.
BAeSema, a joint venture between British Aerospace Plc and France's Sema Group, launched its Cougar coastal corvette project on Monday.
And French state-owned DCN shipyard presented its La Fayette frigate which it boasted was the first operational warship fully to use stealth features in its design.
DCN builds the hulls, while it has linked up with French defence company Thomson CSF to provide the ship's communications, detection and weapons control systems.
Stealth warships use similar principles to the radar-beating technology developed by the U.S. aircraft industry and used in the 1991 Gulf War against Iraq. The diamond-shaped F117 and batwing B2 bombers were designed to absorb or deflect radar.
But traditionalists who admire the sleek greyhound lines of warships would be dismayed to see the flat, angular shapes forced by the stealth technology which makes modern ships mere "platforms" for weapons and detection systems.
The La Fayette uses a slab-sided superstructure and non-metallic composite materials to confuse radar and missiles. The second of eight La Fayette-class ships ordered by Taiwan entered service last week, while Saudi Arabia has also ordered the French ship.
But the British are in hot pursuit with their own designs for a new generation of stealth vessels, which they say they are ready to build now. They have set their sights firmly on export markets for the first customers.
"We believe this is the warship of the future and all warships will need to use these techniques," Brian Spilman, Vosper's manager of future projects shipbuilding, told Reuters.
The Sea Wraith design puts the distinctive clutter of mast, radar dishes and aerials inside flat-sided towers and has shaped topsides, rather like diamond facings, to make it hard for radars to lock on. It also uses non-reflective composites.
Sea Wraith can alter its "radar signature" by lowering or raising the mast, making it difficult to recognise the craft. Two asymetrically-located masts are meant to confuse radar-guided missiles.
To counter new infra-red, or heat-seeking, missiles, the ship sprays a fine mist of water to conceal itself and its "hot spots" such as the exhaust.
BAeSema is showcasing the Cougar patrol vessel, which uses low-acoustic waterjet propulsion instead of traditional noisy engines which are easily picked up by sonar.
Its low, angular lines are typical of stealth designs for throwing off radar beams.
BAe last week announced it was merging its naval systems activities into BAeSema, to boost its prime contractor role.
Prime contractors bid for contracts in which their integration of radar, communications and defence systems provide the added value.
Both BAeSema and Vosper have declined to give prices for their ships, saying these depend on the systems requested.
Thomson-CSF, part of the French state-owned Thomson SA electronics group which is being privatised to the Lagardere conglomerate, is the prime contractor for the La Fayette under Sawari 1 and 2 contracts signed with Saudi Arabia.
Cable and telecoms giants Cable &amp; Wireless, NYNEX Corp and Bell Canada International on Tuesday announced the formation of a major new British cable player by merging the operations of their British subsidiaries.
This brings together C&amp;W's Mercury, British cable company Videotron, Bell Cablemedia and NYNEX CableComms.
In a related deal, Videotron is being bought by Bell Cablemedia in a complex deal which involves a $338 million equity investment in Bell Cablemedia by Cable &amp; Wireless and values Videotron at around $1.09 billion.
Videotron, which was already 26 percent owned by Bell Cablemedia, was the target of a long-running takeover battle, with Cable &amp; Wireless emerging as favourite.
Recent reports said German telecoms group Deutsche Telekom and International CableTel of the U.S. were also interested in taking it over.
Once the merger and the Videotron deal have been completed, Cable &amp; Wireless will own 52.6 percent of the new company - to be called Cable &amp; Wireless Communications - with NYNEX owning 18.5 percent and Bell Canada 14.2 percent of the shares. The remaining 15 percent will floated, C&amp;W told Reuters.
The groups intend to list the company, which will provide integrated telecommunications, information and entertainment services, in both London and New York. This is likely to take place in about six months, C&amp;W added.
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications "...will provide local, national, international, data and mobile telecommunications, together with multichannel television and Internet services" to around six million franchised homes and to businesses throughout Britain, the groups said in a statement.
Richard Brown, chief executive of Cable &amp; Wireless, said the new company would be the only company in Britain able to offer multiple services that until now people had to get from different providers.
"Cable &amp; Wireless Communications will be the only company in the UK capable of offering a combination of telecoms, broadband, data transmission, video shopping and Internet access," Brown said in a statement.
The companies outlined a number of benefits from the new company, saying it would increase its revenues by providing a wider range of services to existing customers and increased access to a broader customer base.
It would also produce "significant cost savings" by eliminating duplication, enhancing purchasing power increasing capital expenditure efficiencies, they added.
As well as the services it will be able to offer immediately, the new company will be strategically positioned to offer new products such as interactive digital services and multi-media products "as they become available", they said.
A bankruptcy judge Monday cleared the way for Montana construction mogul Dennis Washington to take over storied engineering giant Morrison Knudsen Corp., rescuing the company from near-insolvency.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter Walsh, in Wilmington, Dela., approved the prepackaged reorganization plan under which Washington's main operating company will acquire the much-larger Morrison Knudsen for about $283 million in cash, stock and debt assumption.
Washington, 61, a billionaire through his interests in bridge and highway building, copper mining and shipping, will become non-executive chairman of the Boise, Idaho-based company when its merger with Washington Construction Group Inc. becomes effective Sept. 11.
Robert Tinstman, a company veteran appointed to be president and chief executive officer last year after the ouster of its high-flying former chairman, William Agee, will retain those titles in the new company.
The merger requires approval of Washington Construction Group shareholders, but that is a formality because Washington owns 68.5 percent of the shares.
The merged company will retain the Morrison Knudsen name and its Boise heaquarters, but shareholders of the old company -- known for such projects as the Hoover Dam and Alaskan oil pipeline -- will be left with little value.
A distribution of stock in the new company was valued by one analyst at about 15 cents a share, compared with nearly $30 before revelations of losses that stunned Wall Street and led to the ouster of Agee, whose lavish lifestyle had made him a lightning-rod for criticism.
"From a shareholder's point of view it's a pretty bad outcome," said the analyst, John Rogers of Jensen Securities.
Shareholders also get warrants to purchase additional shares in the new company at $12 a share, compared with Washington Construction's current price of $9.25. Bondholders will get from 93 to 95 percent of the $365 million they were owed, one banker said.
Executives say the new company will be profitable from the outset, with revenues estimated at $1.59 billion and net income at $31 million for its first full fiscal year beginning Dec. 1, according to bankruptcy court documents.
That compares with revenue of $2.72 billion and net income of $36 million in 1993, before the company reported losses that totalled more than $600 million over two years.
Analysts traced Morrison Knudsen's woes to a disastrous forway into railroads, including huge losses on bids to build new commuter transit cars, a business the company has exited.
Agee's ambitious plan to build new locomotives from the ground up never materialised, and its minority stake in MK Rail Corp. is being distributed to bondholders.
Agee himself, who once used a corporate jet to shuttle between Boise and his company-bought estate in Pebble Beach, Calif., was forced to give up some of his lucrative pension and severance benefits in a $63 million company settlement of class-action shareholder lawsuits.
The new Morrison will get about 90 percent of its revenues from three businesses -- industrial construction for Fortune 100 companies, heavy civil construction, and environmental remediation, mainly for government agencies, Tinstman said in an interview.
"Dennis very much wants this to be a well-balanced, diversified company," Tinstman said.
The remaining 10 percent of the company's business is mining.
Washington, who usually stays behind the scenes at his companies, will help set strategy at the new Morrison Knudsen but will not have a day-to-day role, Tinstman said.
Morrison Knudsen Chairman Robert Miller, who was brought in last year and is best known for helping to engineer Chrysler Corp.'s turnaround in the 1980s, will be vice chairman of the new company. The other vice chairman will be Washington aide Dorn Parkinson.
The Czech September trade deficit should hold steady at around 14 billion crowns after a 14.7 billion crown monthly deficit in August, a Reuters poll of Czech economists showed on Wednesday.
Czech trade figures for the first nine months are scheduled to be released by the Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) at 0900 local time (0700 GMT) on Thursday.
Most economists surveyed said they expect steady growth in the deficit and few surprises.
"It's still too early to talk about a period of stabilisation in the deficit, I think that will come in 1997 when imports level off and exports strengthen," Boris Gomez, an analyst at ING Barings told Reuters.
Whatever the deficit in September, the nine-month trade gap is sure to be a record, after the January-August figure reached 100.9 billion crowns, more than all of the 1995's total shortfall of 95.7 billion crowns.
The January-September 1995 trade deficit was 62.3 billion crowns.
Most analysts agreed a 13-15 September gap would be in-line with prevailing trends, and on target for the estimated deficit of 150-160 billion crowns.
The foreign exchange and money markets are expected to show little reaction over the figures, as long as they do not vary greatly from the estimates.
Analysts say the trade balance has been hurt by a downturn in the economies of western Europe earlier in the year, and a the effects of a recovery of demand in western Europe have yet to make an impact.
CSU figures show import growth was exceeding export growth by about 15 percent versus just over two percent over the last three months.
The government and central bank, however, has repeatedly ruled out a devaluation of the crown to boost exports.
Analysts point to mid-1997 as a crucial time in which the import wave -- which is aimed at modernising industries -- must show results in productivity growth and competitiveness.
Economists said the deficit could be financed this year, but might pose problems in the second half of 1997.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
MCI Communications Corp. said Monday it reached a 10-year deal with NextWave Telecom Inc. that thrusts MCI into the top tier of U.S. wireless communications providers.
Under terms of the deal, MCI said it will connect its network to a system planned by NextWave to provide personal communications services, giving it the capacity to offer service to more than 110 million individuals in 63 areas, including 29 of the top 50 markets.
Washington-based MCI said it will buy at least 10 billion minutes of capacity for its personal communications services from NextWave over 10 years. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Personal communications services represent the new generation of celluar communications services, allowing customers to send both voice and data transmissions over wireless telephones.
The deal will help underpin the financial future of debt-laden NextWave, which was the largest bidder in the U.S. Federal Communications Commission's auctions for "C-band" wireless radio spectrum held in early July.
NextWave, based in San Diego and New York, also plans to sell stock to the public.
For MCI, the deal enables it to expand quickly into the rapidly growing market for wireless personal communications services.
Two years ago, MCI dropped out of the auctions for U.S. PCS licences after the bidding became too rich for its taste.
But with the NextWave pact and previous smaller deals, MCI has moved to become a major reseller of wireless services.
As part of the deal, NextWave selected MCI to provide telecommunications and other services supporting the development and ongoing operations of its personal communications services system, MCI said.
"This agreement with NextWave establishes an immediate nationwide PCS footprint for MCI and represents an important next step in MCI's wireless strategy," said Whitey Bluestein, vice president for MCI wireless strategy and development.
"This is the first full interconnection agreement of its kind and brings new competition to the wireless marketplace," he said, noting that with full interconnection, MCI does not need to own its own wireless facilities.
MCI said the NextWave agreement is a model for additional agreements it expects to sign with other wireless providers as part of its wireless interconnected network strategy.
The strategy is MCI's blueprint for developing a full range of wireless services and features that will be integrated into MCI's existing communications services.
"This was MCI's strategy all along," said Jeffrey Kagan, an Atlanta-based telecommunications industry analyst.
Kagan said MCI has historically preferred to resell communications services initially rather than investing in its own infrastructure. Over time, the company selectively builds its own infrastructure as it proves profitable to do so.
"Reselling service was how they became a heavy hitter in long distance in the first place," Kagan said. "What their plan is, is to resell service from other providers and build networks where they see the need to do so," he said.
Kagan said MCI's deal with NextWave marks the rapid realisation of its reseller strategy. "This all of a sudden puts MCI on the wireless communications map in a big way."
Still, he noted that AT&amp;T Corp.'s AT&amp;T Wireless unit, the former McCaw Cellular business, remains twice as large as MCI's cellular business, with about 6.5 million subscribers in geographic regions covering 207 million potential customers.
MCI's deal with NextWave covers about 110 million potential customers living in a mix of metropolitan and less-densely populated areas.
MCI's stock traded at $25.25 a share Monday, down 25 cents, on Nasdaq.
John Walter believes that making strategies work within the machinery of AT&amp;T Corp will be the core both of his job as chief operating officer and when he steps up to become chief executive (CEO) in 1998.
"You can have the greatest strategy in the world, but if you dont execute, it doesnt matter," Walter told Reuters.
Walter, chairman and chief executive of commercial printing firm R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co, was on Wednesday appointed by AT&amp;T as president and chief operating officer, and heir apparent to AT&amp;T CEO and chairman Robert Allen.  
Walter will immerse himself in the operations of AT&amp;T during the 14 months when he and Robert Allen work as a team, and emerge capable of holding the reins.
"I'm very comfortable with my ability to move this enterprise forward," he said in a telephone interview.
Walter declined to outline areas where he believed AT&amp;T had failed, but underlined achieving objectives and having an appropriate cost base as his clear focus.
"We have to have a cost platform which allows us to compete effectively or we are disadvantaged even before we come into the ring," he said.  
Analysts have repeatedly criticised AT&amp;T's inability to meet its objectives, which has resulted in an erosion of the value of the brand name and a sliding share price.
AT&amp;T has flung tens of millions in $100 checks at consumer long distance customers only to find them desert again to rivals in the industry. Its share in the $75 billion market has fallen to around 55 percent from 60 two years ago.
"They haven't had the level of execution on the consumer side that we should have seen," said consultant Chris Landis of TeleChoice, who is also an ex-AT&amp;T executive.  
AT&amp;T has made repeated attempts to make money in online services and the Internet, but has sold off almost all its creative content efforts and has retreated to a core offering of Internet access.
For every acquisition that worked well, like the 1994 purchase of McCaw Cellular, there have been others that failed, like the $7.5 billion 1991 takeover of NCR Corp.
Adjusted for the split-off of Lucent Technologies Inc, AT&amp;T shares have fallen 16 percent this year, about the same as the broad market has risen.  
Among Walter's favorite quotes: "When you hire, hire people better than you and then you'll build a company of giants. Hire people worse than you and you'll disappear."
Printing industry analysts say Walter has used technology very effectively to make Donnelley grow, but some say growth came at a price.
"A lot of things have been going wrong," said one analyst, citing the lower earnings outlook and falling stock price.
But analyst Rudolf Hokanson of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell said Walter was an effective manager.
"He tried to make people more accountable, tried to flatten some of the reporting structure," said Hokanson.
-- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
An obscure part of the new telecommunications law could restrict how phone companies use confidential customer data to peddle everything from calling plans and caller I.D. to Internet access and credit cards.
The law pits consumer advocates who fear an onslaught of telemarketers and a loss of personal privacy against local, long-distance and cellular carriers wanting to offer their customers one-stop shopping in the new communications age.
The data, which include billing records and calling patterns, are taking on added importance as local and long-distance companies, cable-TV operators and others brace to get into each other's business under the new telecom law.
"Everybody wants to use these data -- subject to the law -- for their marketing efforts, given that it's a much more competitive environment now," said attorney Alfred Mamlet of Steptoe &amp; Johnson. "There are new technologies and new markets for the companies."
The Federal Communications Commission is drafting rules to spell out the limits set by Congress on the use of "customer proprietary network information." CPNI details when calls are made, the destination, the frequency and length, the number and type of phone lines ordered, and the price of the bill.
Few curbs existed before the new telecom law. The new FCC rules -- which stem from a provision in the law pushed by Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., -- are expected in early 1997.
The agency must decide what form of customer approval a carrier must receive before using the data for marketing.
The rules will determine, for example, what if any okay is needed for a carrier to use a customer's long-distance calling pattern to pitch a cellular service if a customer is seen to make plenty of calls from the road.
Many phone companies want the FCC to avoid stringent rules requiring detailed customer approval. Industry executives argue that consumers would benefit from flexibile rules that let companies target a customer's communications needs.
"It would give us the opportunity to tailor their package of services to what they need and what they want," said James Spurlock, AT&amp;T Corp.'s director of federal government affairs.
But consumer and privacy groups fear the data could fall into the wrong hands without tough curbs and clear approval.
They also fear an explosion in telemarketing: Companies could use CPNI to market a vast array of products and services unrelated to the phone service a customer actually receives.
"When consumers sign up for telehone service, they don't expect the information to be used to market non-phone services such as credit cards or investment information," said John Windhausen, general counsel for the Competition Policy Institute (CPI), a consumer advocacy group.
Companies already use the information. Long-distance carriers pitch cheaper plans based on a customer's calling habits. The marketing is expected to heat up.
Under contention at the FCC is whether a company can use the data derived from its long-distance business to pitch local or cellular service, without prior customer assent.
The telecom law lets carriers use CPNI without prior approval when supplying the service a customer ordered.
The FCC has proposed to classify phone service under three categories: local, long distance and cellular. CPNI from one could not be used to market another without a customer's okay.
A number of phone companies, including several regional Baby Bell companies, have asked the FCC for just one broad category that would give them greater marketing flexibility.
Texas phone regulators, by contrast, propose categories based on "the exact services (the customer) has ordered."
The FCC also has proposed requiring phone companies to notify customers of their right to restrict access to CPNI.
Under contention is whether the notification should be oral or written, such as a notice stuffed into a bill or posted in the "white pages" phone directory.
Consumer advocates, privacy groups and state regulators want advance written approval for use of the information.
Some companies -- AT&amp;T, several of the Bells and GTE Corp. -- suggest that no response to a detailed notification about a customer's CPNI rights should amount to a customer's blessing.
With a contentious, 20-day strike by the Canadian Auto Workers now behind it, General Motors Corp. could reach a U.S. labor agreement with the United Auto Workers in a matter of days, union officials said Wednesday.
The UAW talks, which affect some 215,000 hourly workers, were moving quickly when the strike in Canada started on October 2 and stole the spotlight.  
"I think without question they would have settled by now, but the UAW did not want to undermine the Canadian union's negotiating stance," said Harley Shaiken, a professor of labor relations at the University of California-Berkeley. "The (UAW) negotiations will move very quickly."
UAW president Stephen Yokich remains directly involved in the talks, and major unresolved issues are much the same as those that sparked the walkout in Canada: the shifting of work to outside suppliers, the sale of several parts plants and the UAW's demands for job guarantees for 95 percent of GM's workers.  
Sources close to the talks said they believe GM will agree to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of its workforce -- nominally the same terms that rivals Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. agreed to -- but that level may exclude certain plants and may contain other exceptions.
In addition to the two parts plants GM won the right to sell in Canada are two U.S. parts plants on the sale block.
The automaker wants to sell a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., which together employ 2,100 UAW members.  
UAW officials have identified the buyer for all four of the U.S. and Canadian plants as Joseph, Littlejohn and Levy, a New York-based investment firm that owns other auto parts companies.
But GM also wants to sell other components factories. Its Delphi Automotive Systems division has about 12 plants that it considers "troubled."
And the automaker in August disclosed that was evaluating restructuring plans for parts plants other than the four now on the sale block.  
A GM spokesman declined to discuss the talks, other than to say that GM and UAW negotiators were meeting Wednesday, as they have each weekday during the Canadian strike.
"We reamin hopeful we can get this resolved as soon as possible," UAW spokesman Reg McGhee said Wednesday.
Shaiken said he believes that the GM-UAW agreement will largely continue the tradition of pattern bargaining for each of Detroit's Big Three automakers. Many analysts and even Yokich had downplayed the importance of maintaining a strict pattern for all three companies.
"What we're seeing is the continuation of pattern bargaining, and nonetheless, GM will be able to compete effectively under the agreement," Shaiken said.
AT&amp;T Corp said that the decision to wait 14 months before newly appointed President John Walter takes over as chief executive from Robert Allen made sense while he learned about a different business.
"It was something that Bob Allen felt made sense and something that made sense to John (Walter)," Hal Burlingame AT&amp;T senior vice president for human resources, told Reuters. "It had a lot of input from the board (too)," he said.  
AT&amp;T appointed Walter as its new president and chief operating officer from November 1, following AT&amp;T board approval last night. Walter is chairman and chief executive of printing firm R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co.
Walter will not take over as chief executive from Allen until January 1998, 14 months time, and will become chairman in May 1998 at AT&amp;T's annual shareholder meeting.
In the meantime they will work together, while Walter gets to more fully understand AT&amp;T's business, Burlingame said.  
"They will work together very tightly on all the issues confronting the business, but Bob will obviously be chairman and CEO during that process," he said.
Analysts had expected a full handover to whoever was chosen to succeed Allen in six or 12 months, and said the slower timetable was one reason for the stock price fall.
AT&amp;T stock was down 1-7/8 at 38 at 1430 EDT/1830 GMT in heavy volume.  
Burlingame declined comment on what Walter would be paid, except to say that his package would have a very strong alignment with the interests of AT&amp;T shareholders. Details will be available with the next 10K filing.
"Mr Walter had a very fine plan with a lot of futures built into it at R.R. Donnelley. We hav recognised that in the program we put together," Burlingame said.
AT&amp;T separately told a news conference that the main part of the pay would be performance-related, and that the package, while competitive, was by no means a record-breaker.  
Donnelley's last proxy filing showed Walter's compensation for 1995 as $900,000 plus a bonus of $555,000 and other annual compensation of $36,427.
Walter's predecessor as AT&amp;T chief operating officer and president, Alex Mandl, left in August to join a startup firm called Associated Communications for a package that included a mighty $20 million salary.
Burlingame said AT&amp;T started with a list of more than 30 names from executive search firms, and narrowed those down to 17 early in September, when candidates were first approached.  
A lengthy board meeting on September 13 in West Virginia whittled down the number from 17 to six. Extensive discussions took place with Walter in the last week before his appointment was confirmed.
"The (stock) market doesn't know him yet, but this a person who will be regarded very positively as people come to know him," Burlingame said. -- New York Newsroom  212 859 1712
With AT&amp;T Corp losing market share and floundering in new markets, Wall Street had been expecting a well-known industry leader to take over from Chairman Robert Allen and turn the company around.
Instead, AT&amp;T has recruited a relative unknown, John Walter, chairman and chief executive of R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co. He may be up to the job, but the market will be kept guessing for 18 months while Allen serves out his time.
"He may be exactly what they need, but we won't know for a while," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.  
Analysts and consultants say Walter is well respected but has never faced the scale of challenge he will find at AT&amp;T, which bestrides the crossroads of communication, software, computing and the Internet.
"AT&amp;T is the biggest battleship you have ever seen. Donnelley is not a small company, but AT&amp;T is 10 times the revenues and has three times the employees," said David Goodtree, a consultant at Forrester Research.
AT&amp;T appointed Walter as its new president and chief operating officer, effective November 1.  
But he will not take over as chief executive from Allen until January 1998. Four months later he will become chairman at AT&amp;T's annual meeting.
"Allen does have an image problem, though I don't have that opinion of him," said Barry Sine of SBC Warburg, who cut his rating on AT&amp;T stock to hold from buy today. "The long handover period is an issue for the market."
AT&amp;T's share in the $75 billion long distance telephone market has fallen to around 55 percent today from 60 percent two years ago. Marketing stumbles hurt earnings in the recent third quarter, and investors are losing patience, analysts say.  
AT&amp;T stock was down two points at 37-7/8 at noon EDT/1600 GMT in heavy volume. Adjusted for the split-off of Lucent Technologies Inc, AT&amp;T shares have fallen 16 percent this year, about the same as the broad market has risen.
Sine said of Walter, "This is not a candidate to lead the rally."
Analysts say top candidates to succeed Allen, such as George Fisher of Eastman Kodak, may have been put off by the lengthy 18-month transition time while Allen remains in charge.  
"I heard the reason Fisher didn't take the job was the 18-month delay before taking the reins," Kagan said.
However, a source close to AT&amp;T, speaking on condition of anonymity, said no tentative or firm offer was made to any candidate who subsequently withdrew. AT&amp;T declined comment on the matter.
"I was expecting 12 months (handover) at most," said Chris Landis, an analyst at consultancy Telechoice Inc and a former AT&amp;T executive. "I think most insiders were too."  
Walter has qualities and experience that AT&amp;T will be able to make good use of, analysts said. His printing company specialized in high volumes and quick turnarounds.
"That's a good quality to have at AT&amp;T because you are talking about billions of phone calls a month," said Goodtree.
Donnelley is a formidable user of technology and has used telecommunications to transform its business. It is also a significant customer of AT&amp;T.
Cable &amp; Wireless Plc Chief Executive Richard Brown spoke favorably of Walter.  
"I think AT&amp;T is fortunate to get John Walter," Brown told Reuters. "John Walter is a leader...He know the telecoms world but he is not directly involved. He's a quick study."
On the downside, there is the huge leap of scale and the different nature of AT&amp;T's business. Donnelley is a project-based company, while AT&amp;T is a process-based company requiring different management techniques.
While Walter has made great inroads in the business market where Donnelley finds its customers, he has little experience in consumer markets where AT&amp;T is having its biggest trouble fighting off aggressive competitors.
In an interview this summer, Allen told Business Week magazine that he would be prepared to step down early "if we find God, or something short of that.."
John Walter has found some adherents at AT&amp;T, but the stock market is not yet ready for a conversion.
The birth of a cable giant led by British Telecom's rival Cable &amp; Wireless should enliven competition and ease pressure on BT by regulators long worried by its dominance of the UK market, analysts said on Wednesday.
In its latest rebuff, telecommunications watchdog Oftel on Wednesday banned a promotion by BT, Britain's biggest telephone company, with satellite broadcaster BSkyB, due to a ban on BT's use of its network for entertainment.
"Oftel's decision is nuisance value for BT. (but) the Cable &amp; Wireless deal has far-reaching implications," said Patrick Hickey of Henderson Crosthwaite.
The merger announced on Tuesday created Cable &amp; Wireless Communications, a company controlled by C&amp;W that brings together its own Mercury telecoms business with the British operations of NYNEX of the U.S., Bell Canada International, and Videotron to create a $7.5 billion group. Its constituent companies already reach almost 2.5 million homes in Britain.
Following the Oftel decision, by 1230 GMT, BT shares were off 5.5 pence to 348.5 pence and BSkyB was off 17 pence to 661.5 pence, a low for the day, while C&amp;W was up 7.5 pence to 474.5.
Oftel said that BT's promotion, which involves discounts on subscriptions to BSkyB for customers using a "Friends and Family" phone charges offer, was discriminatory.
BT said it was "baffled" by Oftel's statement and claimed that the promotion offered cost savings to customers and was open to all BT users.
Oftel's decision is particularly emotive, analysts said, as it follows hot on the heels of its rivals' merger and despite active lobbying by BT to have the restriction on it offering television lifted.
BT welcomed the new Cable &amp; Wireless Communications, saying that it would help to create a market where "competition can become the natural regulator."
"The stronger Cable &amp; Wireless is perceived, the more Oftel will get off BT's back," suggested Tressan MacCarthy, analyst at Panmure Gordon. "BT is likely to push hard and use this as an argument for letting them into the market," she added.
The Conservative government has stood its ground on BT's ban from cable television, saying there will be a review of the situation in 2001 with a possible early look in 1998.
The opposition Labour party, currently leading in polls ahead of a general election which must be held by May 1997, has linked opening doors for BT to connecting up schools to the Internet.
BT's promotion with BSkyB would have seen cost savings of around 90 pounds ($143.8) a year per customer in subscription discounts and credits to telephone bills, a BT spokesman said.
Analysts said customers also stood to benefit from the emergence of C&amp;W as a strong domestic competitor to BT.
"As the businesses are put together, say a year out, it will begin to have an impact on BT," said Hickey.
"It will be a pretty competitive environment," he added.
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications has around 2.47 million homes in its sights through a variety of franchises throughout the country and access to 18 million business and domestic telephone customers through its Mercury unit.
It will be offering not just cable television and telephony but also home shopping and Internet link-ups.
"It will be a more coherent competitor to BT, customers will feel more confident of one name instead of fractured franchising," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
For BSkyB, which is 40 percent owned by media tycoon Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, the new cable power could mean harder negotiations on programme pricing, analysts said.
"Cable &amp; Wireless Communications might feel it has more muscle to flex but BSkyB could see it as desperate for content; they both will need each other," Hickey said. ($1=.6260 Pound)
The Czech September trade deficit is expected to grow by between 13 and 15 billion crowns after a 14.7 billion crown monthly deficit in August, a Reuters poll of Czech economists showed on Wednesday.
Czech trade figures for the first nine months are scheduled to be released by the Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) at 0900 local time (0700 GMT) on Thursday.
Most economists surveyed said they expect steady growth in the deficit and few surprises.
"It's still too early to talk about a period of stabilisation in the deficit, I think that will come in 1997 when imports level off and exports strengthen," Boris Gomez, an analyst at ING Barings told Reuters.
Whatever the deficit in September, the nine-month trade gap is sure to be a record, after the January-August figure reached 100.9 billion crowns, more than all of the 1995's total shortfall of 95.7 billion crowns.
The January-September 1995 trade deficit was 62.3 billion crowns.
Most analysts agreed a 13-15 billion September gap would be in-line with prevailing trends, and on target for the estimated deficit of 150-160 billion crowns.
Analysts say the trade balance has been hurt by a downturn in the economies of western Europe earlier in the year, and a the effects of a recovery of demand in western Europe have yet to make an impact.
The government and central bank, however, has repeatedly ruled out a devaluation of the crown to boost exports.
Analysts point to mid-1997 as a crucial time in which the import wave -- which is aimed at modernising industries -- must show results in productivity growth and competitiveness.
Economists said the deficit could be financed this year, but might pose problems in the second half of 1997.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Colombia has taken the first step to lifting a constitutional ban on extradition but the country's crusading anti-drug prosecutor on Wednesday dismissed the move as virtually meaningless.
Amid threats of a repeat of the bloodbath unleashed by drug gangs against extradition in the late 1980s, a Senate panel approved draft legislation late on Tuesday to lift the prohibition on sending Colombians abroad to stand trial
But chief prosecutor Alfonso Valdivieso said the measure prohibited as much as it allowed and threatened to hog-tie the government in endless red tape. He said the legislation should be strengthened before a final vote in Congress.
"What we should be doing here is lifting the 1991 ban, which was a national disgrace. But the text approved by the Senate doesn't represent any advance," he said. "I'm not saying it's a step back but it leaves us in exactly the same position."
The draft legislation approved by an 11-8 vote by the Senate constitutional committee was also unlikely to satisfy Colombia's critics in the United States.
If the draft survives a required seven more congressional votes, it would open the door to extradition in some isolated cases. But it would not be retroactive, ensuring that the Cali cartel drug lords jailed last year, the target of a U.S. extradition request in June, will never see U.S. courts.
Furthermore, the legislation would prevent the extradition of criminals who voluntarily surrendered to Colombian justice and forbid their handover if they risked receiving stiffer sentences abroad than those they would face at home.
One of the main arguments by U.S. authorities, who have long pressed for the extradition of drug traffickers, is that Colombian justice is too lenient and convicted drug lords continue running their criminal empires from behind bars.
Drug lords led by Pablo Escobar, the late and notoriously violent leader of the Medellin cartel, waged a nationwide campaign of bombings, kidnappings and assassinations in the late 1980s and early 1990s to force the government to impose the constitutional ban on extradition passed by Congress in 1991. Memories of the thousands of people who died in that campaign of terror are still fresh.
Death threats against extradition supporters have been scrawled in the last week on walls around Cali, home to the powerful syndicate that edged out Escobar's organisation to become the world's major cocaine supplier.
A group calling itself "Colombians For Peace" issued pamphlets reminding people of the bloodbath of the 1980s because of the extradition issue.  "Today that situation is once again threatening Colombia. Avoiding it depends on the government, congress and our judges," it said.
President Ernesto Samper, dogged by allegations of his own ties to drug lords, has said the extradition debate was poorly timed and insisted that priority should be given to his own proposal to introduce stiffer penalties for drug crimes.
China said on Wednesday it would empower Hong Kong's courts to put on trial off-duty Chinese soldiers after Beijing resumes control over the British colony in 1997.
The standing committee of the National People's Congress (parliament), which is in session in Beijing, was expected to pass a law spelling out how to handle criminal or civil cases involving troops to be garrisoned in Hong Kong, the official Xinhua news agency said.
"Crimes committed by off-duty personnel... will be handled by the courts of the Hong Kong SAR (Special Adminstrative Region)," the agency said.
Criminal cases involving on-duty soldiers would be handled by military courts, it said.
Civil rights offences committed by off-duty members of the Chinese garrison, which will be responsible for Hong Kong's security after the colony returns to Beijing's rule on July 1, 1997, would be dealt with by Hong Kong courts, it said.
Civil rights offences committed by soldiers while on duty would be referred to China's Supreme People's Court, the nation's highest judicial body, it said.
Chinese lawmakers had used British army practices in Hong Kong as a reference in drafting the measures, Xinhua quoted Fu Quanyou, general chief of staff of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA), as saying.
Defence operations of the PLA would not be subject to Hong Kong courts, Xinhua said but did not elaborate.
"Troops stationed in Hong Kong will notify the Hong Kong SAR government in advance of any military drills and exercises to be conducted that involve the public interest," it said.
The Hong Kong government said in a statement it was "not able to provide a detailed response to the garrison law just relying on the reports".
"We hope that we and the people of Hong Kong can have an early opportunity to study the draft law itself," it added.
Xinhua said Hong Kong would be required to provide facilities for the carrying out of defence duties and would have to consult the military when drafting policies that concern them.
Military personnel would be forbidden from participating in political or religious organisations in the territory, it said.
Beijing has eagerly sought to allay fears among Hong Kong's 6.3 million people over the posting of Chinese troops in the territory. State media has said soldiers destined for Hong Kong have been studying local songs and customs.
Many Hong Kong people view with trepidation the arrival of Chinese troops, remembering the PLA's bloody 1989 crackdown on student-led demonstrations for more democracy in Beijing.
"Sending the People's Liberation Army troops to Hong Kong on July 1, 1997, has become a matter of concern among Hong Kong residents," Xinhua said.
"Troops stationed in Hong Kong will not interfere in the SAR's local affairs," it pledged.
China has not revealed how large a force it will post in Hong Kong but says it will send no more than the 10,000 troops Britian stationed there at its peak level.
China said on Wednesday it would empower Hong Kong's courts to put on trial off-duty Chinese soldiers after Beijing resumes control over the British colony in 1997.
The standing committee of the National People's Congress (parliament), which is in session in Beijing, was expected to pass a law spelling out how to handle criminal or civil cases involving troops to be garrisoned in Hong Kong, the official Xinhua news agency said.
"Crimes committed by off-duty personnel... will be handled by the courts of the Hong Kong SAR (Special Adminstrative Region)," the agency said.
Criminal cases involving on-duty soldiers would be handled by military courts, it said.
Civil rights offences committed by off-duty members of the Chinese garrison, which will be responsible for Hong Kong's security after the colony returns to Beijing's rule on July 1, 1997, would be dealt with by Hong Kong courts, it said.
Civil rights offences committed by soldiers while on duty would be referred to China's Supreme People's Court, the nation's highest judicial body, it said.
Chinese lawmakers had used British army practices in Hong Kong as a reference in drafting the measures, Xinhua quoted Fu Quanyou, general chief of staff of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA), as saying.
Defence operations of the PLA would not be subject to Hong Kong courts, Xinhua said but did not elaborate.
"Troops stationed in Hong Kong will notify the Hong Kong SAR government in advance of any military drills and exercises to be conducted that involve the public interest," it said.
Hong Kong would be required to provide facilities for the carrying out of defence duties and would have to consult the military when drafting policies that concern them, it said.
Military personnel would be forbidden from participating in political or religious organisations in the territory, Xinhua said.
Beijing has eagerly sought to allay fears among Hong Kong's 6.3 million people over the posting of Chinese troops in the territory. State media has said soldiers destined for Hong Kong have been studying local songs and customs.
Many Hong Kong people view with trepidation the arrival of Chinese troops, remembering the PLA's bloody 1989 crackdown on student-led demonstrations for more democracy in Beijing.
"Sending the People's Liberation Army troops to Hong Kong on July 1, 1997, has become a matter of concern among Hong Kong residents," Xinhua said.
"Troops stationed in Hong Kong will not interfere in the SAR's local affairs," it pledged.
China has not revealed how large a force it will post in Hong Kong but says it will send no more than the 10,000 troops Britian stationed there at its peak level.
AT&amp;T Corp. surprised almost everybody Wednesday by picking John Walter, chairman of printing company R.R. Donnelley and Sons, as its new president and heir apparent to Chairman Robert Allen.
The giant communications company, ending weeks of speculation, said that Walter, 49, was unanimously elected Tuesday night to the posts of president and chief operating offficer and as a member of the board, effective Nov. 1.
"I'm confident John Walter brings leadership qualities that will make the new AT&amp;T successful, not only in the hotly contested long-distance market, but across the whole range of ... communications services," Allen, 61, said in a statement.
In a telephone interview, Walter said, "I'm very confident with my ability to move this enterprise forward." Walter declined to outline areas where he believed AT&amp;T had failed, but underlined an appropriate cost base as his clear focus.
"We have to have a cost platform which allows us to compete effectively or we are disadvantaged even before we come into the ring," he said.
Industry analysts were stunned that AT&amp;T had not chosen a better-known executive. They were also concerned that an 18-month handover would not lead to a quick enough change in strategy.
"My first reaction was 'John who?'" said David Goodtree, an industry analyst with Forrester Research.
AT&amp;T stock closed $1.875 lower at $37.875 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was among the most active issues.
Adjusted for the spin-off of Lucent Technologies Inc., AT&amp;T shares have fallen 16 percent this year -- about the same as the broad market has risen.
"This (Walter) is not a candidate to lead the rally," said analyst Barry Sine of SBC Warburg.
"I was expecting 12 months (handover) at most," said Chris Landis, an analyst at consultancy Telechoice Inc., and a former AT&amp;T executive. "I think most insiders were, too."
The president and COO posts were left vacant after Alex Mandl resigned suddenly in August to head a small, new wireless company, Associated Communications.
AT&amp;T said its board considered a number of candidates but quickly focused on Walter because his track record at Chicago-based Donnelley, the world's largest commercial printer, fit well with the challenges at AT&amp;T.
"He's transformed a large, old-line company challenged by new technologies and changing markets into a tough global competitor. Meeting those challenges is what leading the new AT&amp;T is all about," Allen said.
Allen said that starting in January 1998 he and Walter would split the duties of chairman and chief executive, with Walter becoming chairman later that year.
"The board and I have every expectation that John will become chairman and CEO of AT&amp;T," Allen said.
AT&amp;T Senior Vice President Hal Burlingame said Allen and Walter would work closely during the transition.
"They will work together very tightly on all the issues confronting the business, but Bob will obviously be chairman and CEO during that process," he said.
AT&amp;T officials declined to detail Walter's salary, but told a news conference that the main part of the pay would be performance related, and that the package, while competitive, was by no means a record breaker.
Donnelley's last proxy filing showed Walter's compensation for 1995 as $900,000 plus a bonus of $555,000 and other annual compensation of $36,427.
Walter, who joined R.R. Donnelley in 1969 as a trainee, held numerous positions in the publishing and information company, becoming chairman in 1989.
"During the 10 years of his operational leadership, Donnelley steadily increased revenue, earnings and cash flow in an industry experiencing little growth," AT&amp;T said in its announcement. "It also transformed itself."
Today Donnelley is a global leader in managing and distributing information -- from magazines to software disks and online services.
Expectations of an early end to Allen's career were heightened when the company warned in September that its earnings would be weaker than expected. The warning eroded staff morale that already had been hurt in January when the company lopped off 40,000 jobs.
AT&amp;T's operating profits of $1.36 billion, or 84 cents a share, for the third quarter were off about 11 percent from $1.53 billion, or 96 cents a share, a year ago. The drop in operating profits came as increased competition and higher marketing expenses hit the company's core long-distance phone business, while financial services sank into losses.
Analyst say top candidates, like George Fisher of Eastman Kodak, may have been put off by the lengthy transition time to the top job while Allen remains in charge.
"I heard the reason Fisher taker didn't take the job was the 18-month delay before taking the reins," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
However, a source close to AT&amp;T, speaking on condition of anonymity, said no tentative or firm offers were made to any candidates who subsequently withdrew. AT&amp;T declined comment.
AT&amp;T started with a list of more than 30 names from executive search firms, and narrowed those to 17 early in September, when candidates were first approached.
A lengthy board meeting on Sept. 13 in West Virginia whittled down the number from 17 to six. Extensive discussions took place with Walter in the last week before his appointment was confirmed.
"The (stock) market doesn't know him yet, but this a person who will be regarded very positively as people come to know him," Burlingame said.
Unisys Corp. posted improved results in the third quarter, the company said Wednesday, as its new business structure began to pay off, while Stratus Computer Inc. reported better-than-expected profits.
Unisys, based in Blue Bell, Pa., reported a third quarter profit of $14.2 million, but a loss of 9 cents a share after paying $30.2 million in dividends on preferred stock. That compared with a net loss of $32.2 million, or 36 cents a share a year ago.
Revenues for the third quarter were $1.63 billion, up 9 percent from $1.49 billion in the year-ago quarter.
Unisys said revenues were up at each of its three business units: information services, computer systems and computer services. The three units were formed in a restructuring.
"After nine months of operations under the new business structure, our three businesses ... are more cost-competitive, streamlined, and focused on capturing opportunities in their respective markets," said James Unruh, chairman and CEO.
Unisys shares closed at $6.875, up 37.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Unisys said its computer systems group has made excellent progress in working through a major product transition to its new lower-cost mainframes, which have experienced a delay as it tested problems with a new chip.
Unisys said while the transition continued to affect its results, sales of computer systems were up 14 percent and profitability in this unit "rebounded nicely" in the quarter.
Analysts said a sale of more than 50,000 election systems in Brazil helped its computer systems unit. Revenue increased strongly both in the United States and internationally.
"The Brazilian deal was over $50 million," said John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst.
Unisys said it planned to meet its revised shipment schedule for its new mainframe computers, which are a major transition to a new lower-cost architecture. Analysts said they expected the high-end versions of these systems to begin shipping around March and April.
Separately, Stratus Computer Inc. of Marlboro, Mass., reported a better-than-expected third quarter, citing a positive contribution from its once-beleaguered software business and improved sales of its new computers.
Stratus reported third quarter income of $10.8 million, or 45 cents a share, compared with a loss of $9.3 million, or 40 cents a share in the third quarter of 1995.
Revenues totalled $150 million vs. $151 million last year.
Stratus's results were better than Wall Street expectations. According to First Call, the consensus estimate was for third quarter earnings of 42 cents a share. The company's shares closed at $24.25, up 25 cents, on the NYSE.
Stratus said its software business contributed to earnings for the first time this year, as the benefits of its recent restructuring began to take effect.
"With a sharpened focus on the best opportunities, we expect that results will continue to improve in this part of our business," said Bill Foster, chairman and CEO, in a statement. Stratus restructured its software unit in the second quarter.
Hardware revenues were up 15 percent on a sequential basis and were up 5 percent vs. the year-ago period, as its Continuum Series computer line saw strong sales growth. It expects even stronger Continuum growth in the current quarter.
Jones of Salomon said its new Radio systems, which run Microsoft Corp.'s NT operating system, will also be a contributor when it begins volume shipments this quarter.
Stratus develops so-called fault-tolerant computers specifically designed with a backup system in case of system failures.
An influential Internet organisation has backed away from a proposal to dramatically expand the number of addresses available on the global computer network.
The Internet Society, which helps develop and coordinate Internet standards, announced this week that instead of moving ahead with the proposal it would form a nine-member committee to study the issue.
Unveiled in August, the proposal was an attempt to quell the growing number of disputes over desirable address names.
"There just seems to be no consensus at all," said Don Heath, president of the society. A variety of objections and questions have been raised about the August proposal, from technical networking issues to concerns about protection for trademarks and intellectual property.
"We thought we should try to pull it all together and have a good cross-section of people to discuss it and see if we can't reach a consensus," he said.
The new committee ought to finish its work by early next year and new names could be doled out four to six months later, Heath said. The committee could decide not to go forward with any address expansion, but Heath said that was an unlikely outcome.
"The facts of life are that people want descriptive names and vanity plates," Heath said.
Disputes over Internet names are occuring with increasing frequency as more companies seek to publicise and market their products over the Net.
For example, Viacom Inc.'s MTV cable music channel fought with one of its employees who had registered "mtv.com," eventually regaining control of the name in an out-of-court settlement.
Every site on the World Wide Web must have a unique address name. Most addresses end with one of a few three letter designations, known as top-level domains, including "com" for private sites, "gov for government sites and "edu" for sites run by schools.
In August, Internet Assigned Numbers Authority said it would oversee the creation of up to 150 new top level domains, easing the squeeze, especially for names in the private sector category.
The authority, operating under charter from the society and the Federal Network Council, is the central coordinator of Internet addresses and other standards.
The society's board of trustees voted in June to accept a preliminary version of the numbers authority proposal, with the proviso that the business aspects of proposal be fleshed out.
But with the ensuing controversy, the society decided a committee was needed to reexamine the proposal, Heath said. The committee will meet confer mostly by telephone and online, though an open forum is planned for mid-December in California.
The committee will include two members appointed by the society, two by the numbers authority and two by the Internet Architecure Board.
The International Telecommunication Union, the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the International Trademark Association will each appoint one member.
Wired magazine remains one of the publishing world's hottest 1990s startups, but on the brink of its parent's initial stock offering some analysts are warning the chronicle of the digerati of the Internet age may prove a better read than investment.
"It's a great read, off Wall Street, but the balance sheet is not quite as neo-designed as the magazine," said Steve Harmon, senior investment analyst at Mecklermedia's iWORLD.
The initial public offering of Wired Ventures Inc., the publisher of the magazine, were due to be priced late on Thursday, according to lead underwriter Goldman Sachs.
The offering had been initially due in July but was pulled at the last minute as the market for technology and Internet stocks was tumbling.
Now Internet stocks, most of which have only gone public since the Netscape Communication Corp.'s milestone offering in August 1995, have rebounded nearly 10 percent from their July lows.
Wired Ventures' revised offering has reduced the company's projected market capitalisation by some $200 million, or 42 percent, from its initial plan, according to Harmon, who calculated the company's new market capitalisation at some $300 million based on an IPO price of $13 a share.
Wired intends to sell up to 4.75 million shares at a range of $12 to $14 a share to raise gross proceeds of $61.75 million. This compares with its earlier plan to raise $76 million from sale of 6.3 million shares.
IPO analysts said the company was wise to hold off on its initial offering, enabling it to take advantage of the current pickup in new share offerings coming to market.
Some Internet analysts also said the offering faces a market that is becoming more discerning than in the past, when investors snapped up shares of companies which had minimal operating history and little promise of near-term profits.
"I think they're going to have a little bit of a challenge with this one. It's just fundamentals," said one analyst. "A couple of years ago, when the Internet was just starting, you could have taken your dog named 'Net' public."
Many investors and analysts compare Wired with traditional print media, since some 90 percent of its revenues are still derived from its high-tech monthly, which since 1993 has been promoted as the magazine of the digital revolution.
Early investors in Wired have included high tech guru Nicholas Negroponte, who heads the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Media Labs, and publisher S.I. Newhouse.
Wired continues to be among the fastest-growing publishing properties, growing in circulation from 90,000 at the end of 1993, its first year of publication, to an estimated 325,000 in August, according to the company's offering documents.
The company also runs HotWired, a hip Web site geared for those who want to keep on the leading edge of digital developments, and the search engine HotBot.
But IPO experts note the business plan for the Internet operations was still in early development and the company continues to post heavy losses, with a net loss for the first six months of 1996 of $34.7 million, including a $20.5 million writeoff, more than double its revenues of $15.63 million.
At an expected price of some 7.3 times estimated 1996 revenues, the valuation would be cheaper than recent Internet content companies like CNET Inc., which has traded at 20 times 1996 revenues, or Yahoo! Inc., which has been trading at more than 40 times estimated 1996 revenues.
But this is pricey compared to more conventional print media valuations, where two times revenues is often the norm, and four to five times for properties exhibiting strong growth in an otherwise maturing sector, analysts said.
"Wired changed journalism, especially high-tech journalism, and made it cool," said Harmon, adding that investors may have difficulty valuing this in financial terms.
"I think Wired expected everybody to just assume it was the emperor emeritus of the digital world and that everything they did turned to gold," he said.
In a move that would reshape the world medical device business, St. Jude Medical Inc agreed Wednesday to make four long-awaited, strategic transactions that would lift it into the top ranks of manufacturers of devices for regulating heartbeat.
The $665-million package of interlocking deals is costly and poses some risks, but likely will proceed, analysts said.
Shares in St. Paul, Minn.-based St. Jude traded down 1-1/2 to 37-1/8 after the announcement, while shares in other companies in the industry also fell.  
"There's a small chance this won't go through, and the Street is also concerned about dilution. But I think this is perfect timing ... It's an idea whose time has come," said Montgomery Securities medical technology analyst Kurt Kruger.
The main thrust of St. Jude's bold move is an agreement to buy Ventritex Inc in a stock swap valued at $505 million. Ventritex, of Sunnyvale, Calif., is the smallest of three companies that dominate the fast-growing, $500-million world market for implantable defibrillators, or ICDs -- electronic devices implanted in the chest and connected to the heart by wires to keep it from beating too rapidly.  
To resolve some long-standing legal actions and help free Ventritex from cross-licensing restrictions that have hobbled it for years, St. Jude is making three smaller deals.
The company agreed to buy certain assets from Telectronics Pacing Systems, a unit of Australia's Pacific Dunlop ; to acquire Medtel, an Asia-Pacific medical goods distributor also tied to Pacific Dunlop; and to buy certain intellectual property rights from the Intermedics unit of SulzerMedica, owned by Swiss medical giant Sulzer AG.
"Part of the brilliance of this deal is bringing all these parties together," said Piper Jaffray analyst Arch Smith.  
St. Jude is the world's largest maker of heart valves, markets for which are growing, but slowly.
In search of growth and risk diversification, chief executive Ronald Matricaria engineered St. Jude's 1994 acquisition for $500 million of the Pacesetter Inc unit of Germany's Siemens AG. The deal transformed St. Jude into a leading manufacturer of heart pacemakers.  
Since then, rumors have swirled that St. Jude might acquire Ventritex--a deal seen by many analysts as setting a capstone on Matricaria's efforts. "If he pulls this off, it's the highlight of his career," said J.P. Morgan analyst Michael Weinstein.
Even with St. Jude's careful efforts, analysts said legal action could ensue. The other two main players in the ICD market -- Medtronic Inc and Guidant Corp -- could seize the chance to drag St. Jude into the courtroom.  
Shares in Minneapolis-based Medtronic were down 7/8 to 63-3/4, while shares in Indianapolis-based Guidant were off 2-3/8 to 41-3/8. Analysts said both fell on a perceived competitive threat from the St. Jude-Ventritex combination.
"Medtronic's world is getting more competitive, but I think they're less vulnerable than Guidant ... A hard rain is going to fall on Guidant," Kruger said.
Acquiring Ventritex promises to cut into St. Jude's future profits. UBS Securities analyst Samuel Navarro estimated 1997 earnings could be reduced by 10 to 15 percent.
Analysts disagreed on whether 1998 earnings would show a neutral, positive or continued negative impact from the deal.
St. Jude earned $129 million, or $1.71 per share, on sales of $723.5 million in 1995. The pre-merger First Call consensus of Wall Street analysts' estimates projected St. Jude earnings of $1.85 per share in 1996 and $2.19 per share in 1997.
""One of the reasons the stock is off is uncertainty over 1997 earnings ... It's very difficult to say what St. Jude's earnings will look like in 1997 in the wake of this. But if you look into 1998 and beyond, it's powerful," Smith said.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
CSX Corp may be hard-pressed to top an aggressive and pricey bid for Conrail Inc. unleashed Wednesday by rival Norfolk Southern Corp.
The Norfolk Southern $100-per-share offer came just eight days after CSX agreed to acquire Conrail in a cash and stock transaction valued at $8.4 billion, or about $92.50 per share.
"This (Norfolk Southern) bid comes without any regulatory risk, is all cash and is higher. So it's one-two-three - a knockout punch versus the old bid," said Anthony Hatch of NatWest Securities.  
At the very least, CSX will likely be forced to change its cash-and-stock offer to an all-cash bid if it wants to stay in the game, railroad and merger experts said.
"The Norfolk Southern bid is a very high bid. It's a rich premium and an attractive deal for Conrail shareholders. I don't know if CSX will be able to come up with an all-cash bid," said Carole Neely of Brown Brothers Harriman.
Norfolk Southern's bid did not completely surprise Wall Street because the Virginia-based railroad last week had expressed concern about the proposed CSX-Conrail transaction.
But some were startled by the nature of its offer.  
Norfolk Southern's bid aims to lure Conrail investors by offering immediate payment for their stock. It would then place the shares in a voting trust until the deal closes.
"The Norfolk Southern offer takes the risk away from (Conrail) shareholders. You've got to be impressed with that," said one takeover stock trader.
Under last week's Conrail-CSX agreement, Conrail shareholders would be required to authorize the tender of 40 percent of Conrail shares for placement in a voting trust. The rest of the shares would be exchanged for stock at a later date and would be subject to market fluctuations.  
Shares of Conrail, which said it will review the Norfolk Southern offer, soared 11-1/4 to 96.
The bid by Norfolk Southern represents its second attempt to buy the railroad that was formed by Congress in 1976 out of the remains of six bankrupt entities. Rumors about Norfolk Southern's interest in Conrail have surfaced on Wall Street periodically ever since it unsuccessfully tried to buy the railroad from the government in the 1980s.
"They're not usually very aggreesive from a financial point of view, but they've been keeping their balance sheet clean for a long time," Hatch said about Norfolk Southern.  
CSX and Norfolk Southern are eager to capture Conrail's valuable Northeast presence amid widespread industry consolidation.
Earlier this year, Union Pacific Corp bought Southern Pacific Rail Corp  for $3.9 billion after losing a fight for Santa Fe Pacific Corp, which was won by Burlington Northern Inc for $2.5 billion in 1995.
But unlike those acquisitions in which the target was viewed as a weak market player, Conrail is considered to be a much stronger railroad - a factor that could limit any potential cost savings or benefits to the successful bidder.
"Southern Pacific and Santa Fe were both not doing well and there was a lot of turnaround opportunity. Conrail is not sick. It's not a big turnaround situation and this is not a cheap price," said Cornelius Sewell of Argus Research.
British Airways Plc (BA) on Wednesday boosted its position in France when French bank Groupe Rivaud joined its bid for ailing French regional airline Air Liberte.
Rivaud, a founding shareholder in Air Liberte and a former partner in a rival consortium, agreed to join BA after marathon talks that began on Tuesday afternoon and ended this morning.
It is the only bid left on the table and the commercial court in Creteil is expected to approve the offer on Friday. Richard Branson's Virgin Express and commercial pilot Fernand Denan had also been working on takeover offers.
The BA/Rivaud proposal still needs the blessing of Air Liberte's creditors and French authorities.
Air Liberte has a 12 percent stake of the domestic French market, while BA's TAT unit has eight percent. The market is still dominated by the state-owned Air France group.
"The situation is delicate," said Mark Rochet, chairman of TAT, adding he hoped the court would take a quick decision.
"Our partnership with the Groupe Rivaud offers the ideal solution for Air Liberte's very poor financial position. To save it requires swift action," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said in a statement.
"It's an excellent solution. We keep all the assets. I do not see another French solution, the last deadline was Friday," Air Liberte founder and chairman Lotfi Belhassine told Reuters.
British Airways will make a 440 million franc equity investment for a 70 percent stake in Air Liberte and Rivaud will put up 190 million for the remaining 30 percent.
In addition, Rivaud will also write off existing convertible debt of just over 500 million francs and will provide Liberte with 50-60 million francs of new loan capital.
Both companies will also pay the costs of running Air Liberte during administration, estimated at 150 million francs.
Rochet told a news conference that Air Liberte's debt now stands at 800 million francs. Creditors can either get 20 percent of their money in cash or get fully paid over 10 years.
Rivaud, headed by industrialist Vincent Bollore, had originally been part of a consortium of travel groups Nouvelles Frontieres, Club Mediterannee and Royal Air Maroc.
Nouvelles Frontieres chairman Jacques Maillot said he and the Moroccan airline had withdrawn because of what he described as the "extraordinary, disastrous financial situation" of Air Liberte.
Bollore is chairman of the shipping and financial group Bollore. He was made the chairman of Rivaud last week and the bank is increasing its capital especially for Air Liberte.
A Bollore official said Rivaud had changed camps on Tuesday after Nouvelles Frontieres and other partners said they were unwilling to provide the money needed for a two-thirds stake.
Rivaud, Club Med and airplane leasing company ILFC were among the original backers of Air Liberte eight years ago.
The BA/Rivaud plan is based on the three-year busines plan for Air Liberte drawn up by BA. It will safeguard 1,250 out of 1,400 Air Liberte jobs and aims for break-even in 1999.
Air Liberte owns about a quarter of the landing and take-off slots at Orly airport, Paris' second airport specialising in domestic flights.
It lost 650 million francs in the first nine months of 1996 due to an air fare war and insufficient passenger numbers in the run-up to full liberalisation of French airspace in 1997.
The French government, belatedly attempting to consolidate a fragmented aerospace industry, on Wednesday gave the green light for aero-engine maker Snecma to buy up rocket engine manufacturer SEP.
State-owned Snecma already owns 51 percent of Societe Europeene de Propulsion (SEP) and wants to buy out minority shareholders to make it a wholly-owned subsidiary. The enlarged group would have annual sales of around 15 billion francs ($2.9 billion).
"The government has been advised of Snecma's wish to raise its holding in the capital of SEP from 51 percent to 100 percent and has given its approval so Snecma's board can make a public offer for SEP shares, followed by, if the 95 percent threshold is reached, a mandatory buy-in," the Finance Ministry said in a statement.
The deal has a strong industrial logic and would ensure Snecma's future in space programmes and its position as France's centre for engine manufacture, it said.
SEP makes engines and boosters for Ariane rockets, used by the European Arianespace consortium.
Snecma makes civilian and military aero engines including those for passenger jets of the Airbus Industrie consortium and Dassault Aviation combat planes.
The buy-in, for which no financial details were available, reverses a policy drawn up by Snecma's previous chairman, Bernard Dufour, who wanted to dispose of SEP and Messier Bugatti, Snecma's aircraft brakes unit, to raise cash.
"Previously envisaged, the sale of SEP is no longer on the agenda", said a Snecma staff note made available to Reuters.
Although the SEP sale would have brought in fresh cash, it also risked weakening the Snecma group by losing know-how essential for future transports such as a second generation supersonic plane and hypersonic aircraft, the note said.
It would also have meant the loss for SEP of Snecma's technical support, which has helped it in the past.
Snecma's new chairman, Jean Paul Bechat, has said asset sales should not be used to make up operating losses and that the company's deficits would only be tackled by meeting a targeted 1.5 billion francs in cost cuts in a restructuring plan.
In addition, the government has adopted an industrial policy for the defence sector which relies on consolidating each sector on a business basis. Snecma was thus the natural centre for SEP, to build a propulsion group in aeronautics and space, it said.
The move would also consolidate Snecma's brakes activities by bringing together SEP's Carbone-Industrie subsidiary with Snecma's Messier Bugatti to create a bigger entity.
Brakes make up around eight percent of Snecma's sales, with potential to grow into areas such as cars and trains.
The buyout will help SEP through a difficult period in the next few years as its order book falls when the Arianespace space consortium transfers launches to the new Ariane 5 rocket from the existing Ariane 4.
SEP makes the rocket motors for the Ariane 5, which has one huge Vulcain engine instead of the up to 10 Viking and HM 7 motors in Ariane 4. Competition from the United States, Russia, Ukraine, China and Japan is also expected to put severe price pressure on rocket launchers.
SEP also makes ballistic missiles and its proposed M5 replacement for the M45 was only adopted in the six-year defence budget on condition that there would be big cost reductions and reorganisations among the industrial partners.
The takeover will create a group with synergies in aeronautical and space engines, making it virtually unique in Europe, a Snecma spokesman said.
Snecma made a 1995 net loss of 1.24 billion francs and expects to make a loss in 1996 and next year before returning to profit in 1998. Turnover for 1996 is expected to total 9.2 billion francs, up from 8.6 billion in 1995 but still lower than 1994's 10.39 billion.
SEP had 1995 turnover of 5.4 billion francs, up 10 percent from 1994, and made a net attributable profit of 133 million. ($1=5.157 French Franc)
British Airways Plc on Wednesday joined with French bank Groupe Rivaud to bid for ailing French regional airline Air Liberte, the airlines' administrator told Reuters on Wednesday.
"It's a bid to continue the company. British Airways will have 70 percent, Rivaud 30 percent. It's a bid which satisfies my conditions, assures the jobs and is also good for the creditors," Maitre Baronnie said by telephone.
Rivaud, headed by industrialist Vincent Bollore, had originally been part of a consortium of travel groups Nouvelles Frontieres, Club Mediterannee and airline Royal Air Maroc.
Nouvelles Frontieres chairman Jacques Maillot said he was now withdrawing his bid. The BA/Nouvelles Frontieres bid was the only one remaining, Nouvelles Frontieres said.
Bollore is also the chairman of a shipping and financial group with his name. He was made the chairman of bank Rivaud last Friday and the bank was increasing its capital especially for Air Liberte.
Rivaud, Club Mediterrannee and airplane leasing company ILFC were among the original financial backers of Air Liberte, founded eight years ago.
Baronnie said that creditors could chose to either get cash now with a discount to the outstanding amount, or wiat for a maximum of ten years to get fully paid.
Air Liberte has debts of some 1.5 billion french francs ($290.7 million).
He said there was no price attached to the bid, as was the case with the former TAT bid of 25 million francs, because it was a bid to continue running the company, instead of an offer to buy the assets.
He said that 1,250 jobs at Air Liberte were safeguarded.
He said that the Creteil commercial court would meet on Friday to discuss the offer and a meeting with creditors was schduled within a month.
Meanwhile Air Liberte could dispose of its cash funds.
"I think this is the best we could get for the company and the creditors," Baronnie said, speaking from Air Liberte headquarters.
Air Liberte founder and chairman Lotfi Belhassine will keep his post, he added.
Air Liberte went into administration on September 26 with debts of about 1.5 billion francs.
Apart from British Airways and Maillot there were bids from Richard Branson's Brussels-based Virgin Express, and commercial pilot Fernand Denan.
British Airways planned to merge Air Liberte with TAT and said last Friday it had plans to spend 440 million francs on getting Air Liberte back into profit in three years.
Air Liberte owns about a quarter of the landing and take-off slots at Orly airport, Paris' second airport specialising in domestic flights, and this would dramatically boost BA's presence and competitiveness in France.
Air Liberte lost 650 million francs in the first nine months of 1996 due to an air fare war and insufficient passenger numbers.
Since the start of the year the main French domestic routes have been open to competition ahead of full liberalistaion in 1997.
Air Liberte and other regional group AOM have been fighting to take market share from former domestic monopolyt carrier Air Inter, part of Air France. ($ = 5.16 French Francs)
British Airways Plc (BA) on Wednesday boosted its position in France when French bank Rivaud joined its bid for ailing French regional airline Air Liberte.
Rivaud, a founding shareholder in Air Liberte and a former partner in a rival consortium, agreed with BA after marathon talks started on Tuesday afternoon and ending at this morning.
It is the only bid left on the table and the commercial court in Creteil is expected to approve the offer on Friday. Richard Branson's Brussels-based Virgin Express and commercial pilot Fernand Denan had also been working on takeover offers.
The BA/Rivaud proposal still needs the blessing of Air Liberte's creditors and French political authorities.
Air Liberte has a 12 percent stake of the domestic French market and BA's TAT unit eight percent. The market is still dominated by the state-owned Air France group.
"The situation is delicate," said Mark Rochet, chairman of TAT, adding he hoped the court would take a quick decision.
"Our partnership with the Groupe Rivaud offers the ideal solution for Air Liberte's very poor financial position. To save it requires quick action," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said in a statement.
"It's an excellent solution. We keep all the assets. I do not see another French solution, the last deadline was Friday," Air Liberte founder and chairman Lotfi Belhassine told Reuters.
British Airways will make a 440 million franc ($85.3 million) equity investment for a 70 percent stake in Air Liberte and Rivaud will put up 190 million for the remaining 30 percent. On top of that Rivaud will make a write down on 500 million francs of its old stake and also on some 60 million francs in loan stocks.
Both companies will pay the costs of running Air Liberte during administration, estimated at 150 million francs.
Rochet told a news conference Air Liberte's debt now stands at 800 million francs. Creditors can either get 20 percent of their money in cash or get fully paid over 10 years.
Rivaud, headed by industrialist Vincent Bollore, had originally been part of a consortium of travel groups Nouvelles Frontieres, Club Mediterannee and Royal Air Maroc.
Nouvelles Frontieres chairman Jacques Maillot said he and the Moroccan airline had withdrawn because of the "extraordinary disastrous financial situation" of Air Liberte.
Bollore is chairman of a shipping and financial group with his name. He was made the chairman of Rivaud last week and the bank is increasing its capital especially for Air Liberte.
A Bollore official said Rivaud had changed camps on Tuesday after Nouvelles Frontieres and other partners said they were unwilling to stump up the money needed for a two-third stake.
Rivaud, Club Med and airplane leasing company ILFC were among the original backers of Air Liberte eight years ago.
The BA/Rivaud plan is based on the three-year business plan for Air Liberte drawn up by BA. It will safeguard 1,250 out of 1,400 Air Liberte jobs and aims for break-even in 1999.
Belhassine will continue to run Air Liberte which owns about a quarter of the landing and take-off slots at Orly airport, Paris' second airport specialising in domestic flights.
It lost 650 million francs in the first nine months of 1996 due to an air fare war and insufficient passenger numbers in the run-up to full liberalisation of French airspace in 1997. ($1=5.157 French Franc)
In a move that would reshape the medical device business, St. Jude Medical Inc. agreed Wednesday to make four strategic transactions that would lift it into the top ranks of manufacturers of devices for regulating heartbeat.
The $665 million package of interlocking deals is costly and poses some risks, but likely will proceed, analysts said.
The stock of St. Paul, Minn.-based St. Jude fell $1.25 to 37.375 after the announcement, while shares in other companies in the industry also fell.
The main thrust of St. Jude's moves was an agreement to buy Ventritex Inc. in a stock swap valued at $505 million.
Ventritex, of Sunnyvale, Calif., is the smallest of three companies that dominate the fast-growing, $500 million world market for implantable defibrillators, or ICDs -- electronic devices implanted in the chest and connected to the heart by wires to keep it from beating too rapidly.
"There's a small chance this won't go through, and the Street is also concerned about dilution. But I think this is perfect timing ... It's an idea whose time has come," said Montgomery Securities medical technology analyst Kurt Kruger.
To resolve some long-standing legal actions and help free Ventritex from cross-licensing restrictions that have hobbled it for years, St. Jude is making three smaller deals.
The company agreed to buy some assets from Telectronics Pacing Systems, a unit of Australia's Pacific Dunlop; to acquire Medtel, an Asia-Pacific medical goods distributor also tied to Pacific Dunlop; and to buy certain intellectual property rights from the Intermedics unit of SulzerMedica, owned by Swiss medical giant Sulzer AG.
"Part of the brilliance of this deal is bringing all these parties together," said Piper Jaffray analyst Arch Smith.
St. Jude is the world's largest maker of heart valves, markets for which are growing, but slowly.
In search of growth and risk diversification, chief executive Ronald Matricaria engineered St. Jude's 1994 acquisition for $500 million of the Pacesetter Inc. unit of Germany's Siemens AG. The deal transformed St. Jude into a leading manufacturer of heart pacemakers.
Since then, rumours have swirled that St. Jude might acquire Ventritex -- a deal seen by many analysts as setting a capstone on Matricaria's efforts.
"If he pulls this off, it's the highlight of his career," said J.P. Morgan analyst Michael Weinstein.
Even with St. Jude's careful efforts, analysts said legal action could ensue. The other two main players in the ICD market -- Medtronic Inc. and Guidant Corp. -- could seize the chance to drag St. Jude into the courtroom.
Shares in Minneapolis-based Medtronic fell 12.5 cents to $64.125, while shares in Indianapolis-based Guidant dropped $2 to $41.50. Analysts said both fell on a perceived competitive threat from the St. Jude-Ventritex combination.
"Medtronic's world is getting more competitive, but I think they're less vulnerable than Guidant ... A hard rain is going to fall on Guidant," Kruger said.
AT&amp;T Corp. surprised almost everybody Wednesday by picking John Walter, chairman of printing company R.R. Donnelley and Sons, as its new president and heir apparent to Chairman Robert Allen.
The giant communications company, ending weeks of speculation, said that Walter, 49, was unanimously elected Tuesday night to the posts of president and chief operating offficer and as a member of the board, effective Nov. 1.
"I'm confident John Walter brings leadership qualities that will make the new AT&amp;T successful, not only in the hotly contested long-distance market, but across the whole range of ...communications services," Allen, 61, said in a statement.
Industry analysts were stunned that AT&amp;T had not chosen a better-known executive. They were also concerned that an 18-month handover would not lead to a quick enough change in strategy.
"My first reaction was 'John who?'" said David Goodtree, an industry analyst with Forrester Research.
AT&amp;T stock closed $1.875 lower at $37.875 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was among the most active issues.
Adjusted for the spin-off of Lucent Technologies Inc., AT&amp;T shares have fallen 16 percent this year -- about the same as the broad market has risen.
"This (Walter) is not a candidate to lead the rally," said analyst Barry Sine of SBC Warburg.
"I was expecting 12 months (handover) at most," said Chris Landis, an analyst at consultancy Telechoice Inc., and a former AT&amp;T executive. "I think most insiders were, too."
The president and COO posts were left vacant after Alex Mandl resigned suddenly in August to head a small, new wireless company, Associated Communications.
AT&amp;T said its board considered a number of candidates but quickly focused on Walter because his track record at Chicago-based Donnelley, the world's largest commercial printer, fit well with the challenges at AT&amp;T.
"He's transformed a large, old-line company challenged by new technologies and changing markets into a tough global competitor. Meeting those challenges is what leading the new AT&amp;T is all about," Allen said.
Allen said that starting in January 1998 he and Walter would split the duties of chairman and chief executive, with Walter becoming chairman later that year.
"The board and I have every expectation that John will become chairman and CEO of AT&amp;T," Allen said.
AT&amp;T Senior Vice President Hal Burlingame said Allen and Walter would work closely during the transition.
"They will work together very tightly on all the issues confronting the business, but Bob will obviously be chairman and CEO during that process," he said.
AT&amp;T officials declined to detail Walter's salary, but told a news conference that the main part of the pay would be performance related, and that the package, while competitive, was by no means a record breaker.
Donnelley's last proxy filing showed Walter's compensation for 1995 as $900,000 plus a bonus of $555,000 and other annual compensation of $36,427.
Walter, who joined R.R. Donnelley in 1969 as a trainee, held numerous positions in the publishing and information company, becoming chairman in 1989.
"During the 10 years of his operational leadership, Donnelley steadily increased revenue, earnings and cash flow in an industry experiencing little growth," AT&amp;T said in its announcement. "It also transformed itself."
Today Donnelley is a global leader in managing and distributing information -- from magazines to software disks and online services.
Expectations of an early end to Allen's career were heightened when the company warned in September that its earnings would be weaker than expected. The warning eroded staff morale that already had been hurt in January when the company lopped off 40,000 jobs.
AT&amp;T's operating profits of $1.36 billion, or 84 cents a share, for the third quarter were off about 11 percent from $1.53 billion, or 96 cents a share, a year ago. The drop in operating profits came as increased competition and higher marketing expenses hit the company's core long-distance phone business, while financial services sank into losses.
Analyst say top candidates, like George Fisher of Eastman Kodak, may have been put off by the lengthy transition time to the top job while Allen remains in charge.
"I heard the reason Fisher taker didn't take the job was the 18-month delay before taking the reins," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
However, a source close to AT&amp;T, speaking on condition of anonymity, said no tentative or firm offers were made to any candidates who subsequently withdrew. AT&amp;T declined comment.
AT&amp;T started with a list of more than 30 names from executive search firms, and narrowed those to 17 early in September, when candidates were first approached.
A lengthy board meeting on Sept. 13 in West Virginia whittled down the number from 17 to six. Extensive discussions took place with Walter in the last week before his appointment was confirmed.
"The (stock) market doesn't know him yet, but this a person who will be regarded very positively as people come to know him," Burlingame said.
An obscure part of the new telecommunications law could restrict how phone companies use confidential customer data to peddle everything from calling plans and caller I.D. to Internet access and credit cards.
The law pits consumer advocates who fear an onslaught of telemarketers and a loss of personal privacy against local, long-distance and cellular carriers wanting to offer their customers one-stop shopping in the new communications age.
The data, which include billing records and calling patterns, are taking on added importance as local and long-distance companies, cable-TV operators and others brace to get into each other's business under the new telecom law.
"Everybody wants to use these data -- subject to the law -- for their marketing efforts, given that it's a much more competitive environment now," said attorney Alfred Mamlet of Steptoe &amp; Johnson. "There are new technologies and new markets for the companies."
The Federal Communications Commission is drafting rules to spell out the limits set by Congress on the use of "customer proprietary network information." CPNI details when calls are made, the destination, the frequency and length, the number and type of phone lines ordered, and the price of the bill.
Few curbs existed before the new telecom law. The new FCC rules -- which stem from a provision in the law pushed by Representative Edward Markey, D-Mass., -- are expected in early 1997.
The agency must decide what form of customer approval a carrier must receive before using the data for marketing.
The rules will determine, for example, what if any okay is needed for a carrier to use a customer's long-distance calling pattern to pitch a cellular service if a customer is seen to make plenty of calls from the road.
Many phone companies want the FCC to avoid stringent rules requiring detailed customer approval. Industry executives argue that consumers would benefit from flexibile rules that let companies target a customer's communications needs.
"It would give us the opportunity to tailor their package of services to what they need and what they want," said James Spurlock, AT&amp;T Corp.'s director of federal government affairs.
But consumer and privacy groups fear the data could fall into the wrong hands without tough curbs and clear approval.
They also fear an explosion in telemarketing: Companies could use CPNI to market a vast array of products and services unrelated to the phone service a customer actually receives.
"When consumers sign up for telehone service, they don't expect the information to be used to market non-phone services such as credit cards or investment information," said John Windhausen, general counsel for the Competition Policy Institute (CPI), a consumer advocacy group.
Companies already use the information. Long-distance carriers pitch cheaper plans based on a customer's calling habits. The marketing is expected to heat up.
Under contention at the FCC is whether a company can use the data derived from its long-distance business to pitch local or cellular service, without prior customer assent.
The telecom law lets carriers use CPNI without prior approval when supplying the service a customer ordered.
The FCC has proposed to classify phone service under three categories: local, long distance and cellular. CPNI from one could not be used to market another without a customer's okay.
A number of phone companies, including several regional Baby Bell companies, have asked the FCC for just one broad category that would give them greater marketing flexibility.
Texas phone regulators, by contrast, propose categories based on "the exact services (the customer) has ordered."
The FCC also has proposed requiring phone companies to notify customers of their right to restrict access to CPNI.
Under contention is whether the notification should be oral or written, such as a notice stuffed into a bill or posted in the "white pages" phone directory.
Consumer advocates, privacy groups and state regulators want advance written approval for use of the information.
Some companies -- AT&amp;T, several of the Bells and GTE Corp. -- suggest that no response to a detailed notification about a customer's CPNI rights should amount to a customer's blessing.
AT&amp;T Corp., ending weeks of speculation, said Wednesday that its board elected John Walter, chairman of printing company R.R. Donnelley and Sons, as its new president, chief operating officer and heir apparent to Chairman Robert Allen.
The giant communications company said that Walter, 49, was unanimously elected Tuesday night to the two management posts and as a member of the board, effective Nov. 1.
"I'm confident John Walter brings leadership qualities that will make the new AT&amp;T successful, not only in the hotly contested long-distance market, but across the whole range of rapidly growing communications services," Allen, 61, said in a statement.
Industry analysts, however, were stunned that AT&amp;T had not chosen a better-known executive. They were also concerned that an 18-month handover would not lead to a quick enough change in strategy.
AT&amp;T stock fell $2 to $37.75 in heavy volume on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was among the most active issues in afternoon trading. Adjusted for the split off of Lucent Technologies Inc., AT&amp;T shares have fallen 16 percent this year -- about the same as the broad market has risen.
"This (Walter) is not a candidate to lead the rally," said analyst Barry Sine of SBC Warburg.
"I was expecting 12 months (handover) at most," said Chris Landis, an analyst at consultancy Telechoice Inc., and a former AT&amp;T executive. "I think most insiders were, too."
The president and COO posts were left vacant after Alex Mandl resigned suddenly in August to head a small, new wireless company, Associated Communications.
AT&amp;T said its board considered a number of candidates but quickly focused on Walter because his track record at Chicago-based Donnelley, the world's largest commercial printer, fit well with the challenges at AT&amp;T.
"He's transformed a large, old-line company challenged by new technologies and changing markets into a tough global competitor. Meeting those challenges is what leading the new AT&amp;T is all about," Allen said.
Allen said that starting in January 1998 he and Walter would split the duties of chairman and chief executive, with Walter becoming chairman later that year.
"The board and I have every expectation that John will become chairman and CEO of AT&amp;T," Allen said.
Walter, who joined R.R. Donnelley in 1969 as a trainee, held numerous positions in the publishing and information company, becoming chairman in 1989.
"During the 10 years of his operational leadership, Donnelley steadily increased revenue, earnings and cash flow in an industry experiencing little growth," AT&amp;T said in its announcement. "It also transformed itself."
Today Donnelley is a global leader in managing and distributing information -- from magazines to software disks and online services.
Expectations of an early end to Allen's career were heightened when the company warned in September that its earnings would be weaker than expected.
AT&amp;T's operating profits of $1.36 billion, or 84 cents a share, for the third quarter were off about 11 percent from $1.53 billion, or 96 cents a share, a year ago. The drop in operating profits came as increased competition and higher marketing expenses hit the cmopany's core long-distance phone business, while financial services sank into losses.
Industry analysts had speculated that Allen would surrender the role of chief executive, rather than chairman, to the new candidate and retain his chairmanship until nearer his retirement.
Analyst say top candidates, like George Fisher of Eastman Kodak, may have been put off by the lengthy transition time to the top job while Allen remains in charge.
"I heard the reason Fisher taker didn't take the job was the 18-month delay before taking the reins," said consultant Jeffrey Kagan of Kagan Telecom.
However, a source close to AT&amp;T, speaking on condition of anonymity, said no tentative or firm offers were made to any candidates who subsequently withdrew. AT&amp;T declined to comment.
An influential Internet organisation has backed away from a proposal to dramatically expand the number of addresses available on the global computer network.
The Internet Society, which helps develop and coordinate Internet standards, announced this week that instead of moving ahead with the proposal it would form a nine-member committee to study the issue.
Unveiled in August, the proposal was an attempt to quell the growing number of disputes over desirable address names.
"There has been considerable international debate on various aspects of the proposal with no consensus," Don Heath, president of the society, said in a statement. "It is in the best interest of the continued beneficial evolution of the Internet that these issues be aired and resolved."
Disputes over Internet names are occuring with increasing frequency as more companies seek to publicise and market their products over the Net.
For example, Viacom Inc.'s MTV cable music channel fought with one of its employees who had registered "mtv.com," eventually regaining control of the name in an out-of-court settlement.
Every site on the World Wide Web must have a unique address name. Most addresses end with one of a few three letter designations, known as top-level domains, including "com" for private sites, "gov for government sites and "edu" for sites run by schools.
In August, Internet Assigned Numbers Authority said it would oversee the creation of up to 150 new top level domains, easing the squeeze, especially for names in the private sector category.
The authority, operating under charter from the society and the Federal Network Council, is the central coordinator of Internet addresses and other standards.
The society's board of trustees voted in June to accept a preliminary version of the numbers authority proposal, with the proviso that the business aspects of proposal be fleshed out.
But with the ensuing controversy, the society decided a committee was needed to reexamine the proposal, Heath said.
The committee will include two members appointed by the society, two by the numbers authority and two by the Internet Architecure Board.
The International Telecommunication Union, the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the International Trademark Association will each appoint one member.
China's economy grew by 9.6 percent in the first nine months of 1996, but many urban family incomes are lagging behind, the State Statistical Bureau said Wednesday.
Chinese industrial output was up, farmers were on their way to a year of record grain harvests and the scourge of inflation had been tamed to a year-on-year 6.6 percent in the first three quarters, bureau spokesman Ye Zhen said.
"The development of the macro-economy overall appears good," Ye told a news conference.
Gross domestic product was 4.5675 trillion yuan ($550.3 billion) between January and September, up 9.6 percent from the same period of 1995, Ye said, but gave no details. China's GDP grew by 10.2 percent in 1995.
The average urban income rose to 3,249 yuan ($391) between January and September, an actual year-on-year increase of 3.4 percent, he said.
But the incomes of many urban residents are lagging behind as China's economy booms, Ye said.
A survey of 35 major cities and towns had revealed that the incomes per family member of around 40 percent of households had declined, he said.
Some of the decline was the ordinary result of the birth of children or the retirement of older family members, he said.
"The second kind of situation is when the level of income falls or the level of income growth cannot keep up with inflation," Ye said, adding such problems were the cause of the income fall in about half the families surveyed.
"The difficulties of some low-income urban families have been aggravated," he said.
He gave no explanation of the decline in incomes suffered by some urban wage-earners, but many surplus workers in China's huge and largely stagnant state sector have been sent home on minimum salaries.
Although such workers are not considered unemployed and the state sector is highly reluctant to fire employees, China's urban unemployment rate hit 2.98 percent at the end of September, Ye said.
The number of unemployed in Chinese cities reached 5.3 million, he said, but gave no comparative figures.
China's urban jobless rate was 2.9 percent by the end of June, the same as the official figure for 1995, but state newspapers have warned that unemployment, a major concern for Beijing's communist leadership, could shoot up to 7.4 percent by 2000.
Optimism over the economy and the success of a continuing policy of tight credit aimed at curbing inflation and reining in runaway growth has been boosted by predictions that 1996 will be a bumper year for China's hundreds of millions of farmers.
Government policies had encouraged farmers to increase the area of land under grain, and grain output this year was forecast to exceed 480 million metric tons, beating the 1995 record harvest by about 15 million tons, Ye said.
China had set a target of 465 million tons for 1996.
Other figures released by the Statistical Bureau also painted a positive picture of an economy that Beijing says is on target for a "soft landing" after years of breakneck growth.
Year-on-year retail price inflation in the first three quarters was curbed to 6.6 percent, down 10 percentage points compared with the same period of 1995, Ye said.
The Xinhua news agency on Wednesday quoted economic tsar Zhu Rongji as forecasting inflation would be below 6.5 percent in 1996 and as saying it would be possible to cut it to six percent next year.
Retail inflation hit 21.8 percent in 1994.
Baxter International Inc said it expects to maintain annual gross profit margin in the 44 to 45 percent range.
"We'll definitely be able to stay, on an annual basis, in the 44 to 45 percent range," said chief financial officer Harry Kraemer in an interview with Reuters.
The Deerfield, Ill.-based medical products and services company also is still comfortable with the forecast it made in September that 1996 sales would be about $6.2 billion, although Kraemer suggested that figure could be low.  
"I would say that we're very comfortable with that number ... It could be higher," Kraemer said of the estimate.
Baxter reported third-quarter earnings on Wednesday of $0.65 per share, beating the consensus Wall Street estimate of $0.64 per share. Year-ago profits were $0.59 per share.
Sales for the quarter were $1.31 billion, compared to $1.26 billion a year earlier.
Foreign exchange translations reduced third-quarter sales by about $60 million, Kraemer said. "Despite the fact that our sales impact of foreign exchange was $60 million, we still exceeded the earnings estimate for the quarter," he said.  
Unfavorable currency exchange ratios continued to hit hardest in Japan, Kraemer said. "Going forward, we're assuming that it doesn't get better. If it does get better, then we have this strange thing called an upside ... But predicting foreign exchange is the first step to doom," he said.
After closing its acquisition of Switzerland's Immuno International AG, likely by the end of the year, Baxter expects 60 percent of sales and 75 percent of profits to come from outside the United States.
The company targeted 1996 cash flow of $500 million. In the first nine months of the year, cash flow was $457 million.  
Shares in Baxter were unchanged at 44 at midday.
On a segment basis, sales growth in the third quarter was strongest in Baxter's smallest business, cardiovascular medical products, and weakest in its largest business, the intravenous systems sector.
In cardiovascular, percentage third-quarter sales growth was in the high teens, led by strong sales gains in tissue heart valve and perfusion services, Kraemer said. The segment generated 14.5 percent of 1995's $5.05 billion in sales and is expected to remain in that range this year, he said.  
Percentage sales growth in the biotechnology segment was in the mid-teens, powered by growth in sales of Recombinate, a blood-clotting factor for haemophiliacs, and Gammagard, a therapy for patients with weak immune systems, Kraemer said.
Biotech provided 22.4 percent of 1995 sales, but is expected to jump to 32 percent after the Immuno acquisition.
Kraemer added that Baxter's development of a blood substitute product "continues to move ahead."  
The renal therapy business showed percentage sales growth on the quarter in the low teens outside the United States, while U.S. sales were down in single digits. The U.S. decline was caused by sales lost to Fresenius AG following its acquisition of the National Medical Care unit of W.R. Grace &amp; Co, Kraemer said.
The renal segment's percentage share of Baxter sales is expected to contract to about 22.6 percent this year from 25.5 percent last year, Kraemer said.
In the cash cow intravenous business, percentage non-U.S. sales growth was in the mid-single digits, while it was flat inside the United States, Kraemer said.
The IV business generates more than 50 percent of Baxter's cash flow and is feeling pressure from the continuing cost containment push in the healthcare industry, he said.
The IV segment accounted for 37.4 percent of 1995 sales. This year, that share is likely to fall to about a third of sales, based on Baxter sales growth estimates.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Netscape Communications Corp., said Tuesday its quarterly revenues hit a record $100 million in the third quarter, demonstrating the surging popularity of its Internet software among companies setting up internal networks known as intranets.
Netscape, which pioneered the popular Netscape Navigator browser software for cruising the Internet's World Wide Web, said its third quarter net income was $7.7 million, or 9 cents a share. A year ago, the fledgling company earned $175,000 on sales of $23.3 million.
"The third quarter of 1996 was another landmark quarter for Netscape, as Netscape server and client software solutions made significant inroads into the global enterprise market," said Netscape President and Chief Executive Jim Barksdale.
Wall Street, which had been expecting Netscape to report revenues of roughly $85 million to $90 million, had not expected the company to hit the $100 million quarterly revenue milestone until the second quarter next year, analysts said.
"I think the $100 million mark really shows significdant growth," said Hambrecht and Quist analyst Daniel Rimer, noting revenues grew 33 percent sequentially. "This is major league revenue for a quarter."
The quarterly revenue was well above the $80.7 million it posted for the whole of 1995. For the first nine months, Netscape earned $12 million, or 14 cents a share, on sales of $231 million. A year earlier, the company lost $7 million, or 10 cents a share, on sales of $44 million.
In after-hours dealing, shares of Netscape were firm, changing hands as high as $44.875, up from its closing level of $44.50 in Nasdaq market trading.
Barksdale said in an interview after the results that the indirect sales through third parties such as computer makers and systems integrators had accounted for 60 percent of overall sales, and 100 percent in Europe and Asia.
"We think it's a very efficient channel for us," he said. "More and more we're seeing our job as demand creation through our direct sales force. We just think it's a more efficient way for these kind of products (to be sold)."
"I'm very proud we have gotten to that as quickly, because we're very dependent on these people," he said.
Barksdale outlined a broad range of companies which had chosen Netscape software to build applications for their computer networks, or "intranet" applications, and said the company was moving towards sales of complete systems.
Analysts said this focus and the rapid growth of the market will help it continue to grow in competition with rivals like Microsoft Corp and International Business Machines Corp's Lotus Development Corp.
Barksdale said he remains concerned that competitors will be confused by the competitive frenzy, although he said key Netscape products remain lower in price those of Microsoft and Lotus, for example.
Barksdale told analysts in a conference call that customers were using its Internet technology for a variety of functions, such as human resources administration, in addition to the order tracking feature for which it is known.
"What becomes clear is that people are not only deploying intranets, but they're expanding the utility of their intranets," Rimer said.
Italian business tycoon Silvio Berlusconi on Wednesday lost an appeal in the London High Court against the transfer of documents to Italian authorities investigating allegations of fraud and false accounting.
Britain's Serious Fraud Office seized 15 bags of documents in April from the office of London lawyer David Mills who represents the interests of former Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi in Britain.
The judges, Lord Justice Simon Brown and Mr Justice Gage, rejected all the grounds of the appeal, but Brown agreed to hear an application by the appellants on Friday morning, which could lead to an appeal to the House of Lords, although legal sources said this was unlikely to succeed.
The hearing stemmed from an appeal by Berlusconi, who was Italian Prime Minister for seven months in 1994 and is on trial in Milan on corruption charges, his company Fininvest and company president Fedele Confalonieri against a court ruling earlier this year that the papers should be sent to Italy.
Brown said the papers were linked to fraud and false accounting allegations amounting to 51 million pounds ($82 million) which had been "surreptitiously removed from Fininvest and used for criminal purposes."
He noted that prosecutions were already underway in Italy against Berlusconi for bribing Revenue inspectors and for making illicit donations to former Prime Minister Bettino Craxi.
Italian investigators suspect Berlusconi who, among other holdings, owns three TV channels and the football club AC Milan, may have used offshore companies to channel payments to politicians.
At the end of his judgement Brown pointed out that, "It is imperative to recognise, however, that none of the applicants has yet been convicted of anything and that nothing I have said should be thought to raise the least presumption of guilt against them."
He rejected all the grounds of the appeal on the basis that the Italian request was not too wide, that it was justified and that the offences in question were not "political".
One of the grounds of appeal had been that the SFO had gone to Berlusconi's lawyer's office on a "fishing expedition" -- an unspecific search -- which is illegal under English law.
Brown described the case as a "wide-ranging, multi-faceted, international fraud involving far-reaching allegations against a large number of individuals in connection with an even larger number of companies."
The SFO said it was "happy" with the ruling.
"The SFO's fight against fraud on an international level has been strengthened by this welcome judgement," it said in a statement.
The SFO said the judges had rejected all of the main arguments put forward by the appellants. "We look forward to the speedy transfer of the documents to Milan so that the investigators can get on with their job," it said.
A hearing on Friday will decide whether Berlusconi can appeal against today's ruling to the British House of Lords.
SFO senior assistant director Chris Dickson said the judges in the current hearing were aware that, if any House of Lords hearing did not take place until next year, this would mean the papers would arrive too late to be used in Italian proceedings.
He said that if the appellants were not given leave to appeal on Friday he expected the papers to be transferred immediately, although this was a decision for the Home Office.
($1=.6260 Pound)
Ethical Holdings Plc, the UK-based drug delivery company listed on the U.S. Nasdaq index, said on Wednesday it expected research and development spending to continue to rise sharply as it targets the key U.S. market. The company said earlier that a 32 percent rise in R&amp;D spending to 10.4 million stg helped to push it into the red in the year ended August 31.
Ethical, which specialises in controlled oral release and skin patch drugs, posted a pre-tax loss of 11.0 million stg after a profit of 3.4 million a year before.  
The results were also affected by a one-off payment of 7.9 million stg for the repurchase of product rights from Drug Royalty Corp Inc.
In a telephone interview with Reuters, chairman and chief executive Geoffrey Guy said the sharp rise in R&amp;D spending was likely to continue over the next couple of years, "and probably at a greater rate".
The company has decided to target the U.S, where it has had a relatively low profile despite its Nasdaq listing.  
This involves taking a number of products, including a once-daily morphine tablet used by cancer patients and a Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) skin patch, through late-stage trials.
"We took the view that to get the major markets and royalties of the U.S. we have to go back into an investment phase," Guy said.
Ethical, which is based near Ely in Cambridgeshire, southern England, has 16 products on the market. It focuses on four core areas -- hormone replacement therapy (HRT), cardiovascular disease, asthma and analgesia. Its technology is useful for producing generic versions of off-patent drugs.  
As well as targeting the U.S, Guy said the company had consolidated its position in Europe during the year, acquired a South American skin patch company and put a foot in the potentially lucrative Japanese market through agreements on its morphine and cardiovascular drugs.
Guy said Ethical had strong hopes for its once-daily pain-killing morphine tablet, which offers advantages over current drugs which have to be taken twice a day.
He said the Ethical product is about 18 months behind its main competitor and estimated the global market for morphine tablets at $250 to $350 million a year "and still growing".  
Ethical has also applied for a U.K. licence for an HRT skin patch which it claims will eliminate monthly bleeding caused by existing treatments in some women.
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
