The Czech merchandise trade deficit jumped 16.4 billion crowns in July, the largest monthly increase in the country's history, but forecast tourism revenue and the structure of imports tempered analysts' concerns.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said on Monday that the July increase put the seven-month trade deficit at 85.3 billion crowns, after a 14 billion crown shortfall in June drove the half-year deficit to 68.87 billion crowns.
"This shows that the trade gap is still widening, this is the bad news," said Radek Maly, economist at Citibank Prague.
"But when you look at the actual composition of the deficit... a large part of this is stemming from the investment needs of Czech industry."
Imports between January to July grew 15.9 percent over the same seven-month period last year, while exports, hampered especially by lower demand in Germany, were up only 7.2 percent, the CSU said.
"Exports are lagging behind our expected growth rate," said Patria Finance economist Martin Kupka. "But the services balance will help improve the account."
Machinery and transport equipment accounted for 52.5 billion crowns of the total seven-month deficit, while the balance for consumer goods actually showed an 857 million crown surplus, despite a sharp increase in domestic demand.
Comments by the Czech National Bank Governor Josef Tosovsky on Friday ruling out a devaluation of the crown to boost exports convinced analysts that the central bank was not overly concerned with the overall Czech balance of payments picture.
"There really isn't a strong convincing reason why (the crown) should be devalued at this point of development," Kupka said, adding that the country's capital account surplus still should comfortably cover the current account deficit.
The services balance will be especially helped by the expected expansion of income from tourism, as strong first half revenues raised forecasts for total income from tourism in 1996 to $3.2 billion to $3.5 billion after $2.6 billion in 1995.
"The overall balance of invisibles (services including toursim) for this year should be around $1.8 to $1.9 billion, which will decrease the current account deficit," Maly said.
Economists are forecasting the 1996 current account deficit at between five to six percent of gross domestic product, compared with about four percent last year.
The overall number of tourist visits in the country was up 9.3 percent in the first half, year-on-year, and airport arrivals were up 48.4 percent.
Czech National Bank balance of payment figures for the first half of the year -- which will give clearer picture of the balance of services -- are expected to be released in the early weeks of September.
The tourism component of the first quarter balance of payments showed a net income of $261 million, on total tourism revenue of $581 million.
The overall current account however, posted a $505 million deficit in the first quarter.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
- The chief financial officer of debt-ridden Rogers Communications Inc., resigned suddenly Monday.
Graham Savage, well-respected by analysts and considered a restraining force on flamboyant president Ted Rogers, had been with the firm for 21 years. He resigned to "pursue other interests," the company said.
"Of all the senior individuals who have left Rogers in recent times, the departure of Savage is the most detrimental to the company, given Savage is the man who has held it all together for the past few years," said Lawrence and Co. analyst Andrew McCreath.
Analyst John Drolet at Toronto's Yorkton Securities said, "This is not good for Rogers at all. I wouldn't be surprised if other people left."
Rogers, which also owns Rogers Cantel, a wireless communications firm, has shed U.S. and Canadian assets in the past year in an attempt to cut its debts. Rogers piled up most of its debt load when it acquired Maclean Hunter Ltd., along with the Toronto Sun group, for C$3.1 billion ($2.26 billion).
Total long-term debt grew to C$4.88 billion ($3.56 billion) as of June 30 from a year-earlier C$4.07 billion ($2.97 billion).
In 1995, Rogers had revenue of C$2.69 billion ($1.96 billion).
"Graham Savage was a pretty good guy. He was able to keep the wolves away as ... Ted Rogers kept adding on assets. But I guess he finally realized that there's an end to the line," Drolet said.
Alan Horn, vice-president of administration, will serve as acting chief financial officer until another is found, the company said.
In a statement, Ted Rogers said: "We remain committed to the near-term financial priorities of improving our balance sheet and increasing revenues as we invest in new businesses."
Rogers' stock, after being halted earlier in the day on the Toronto Stock Exchange, fell 80 cents to close at C$9.25.
In New York, Rogers fell 50 cents to $6.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The birth of a cable giant led by British Telecom's rival Cable &amp; Wireless should enliven competition and could eventually ease pressure on BT by regulators long worried by its dominance of the UK market, analysts said on Wednesday.
In its latest rebuff, telecommunications watchdog Oftel on Wednesday banned a promotion by BT, Britain's biggest telephone company, with satellite broadcaster BSkyB, citing a ban on BT's use of its network for entertainment.
"Oftel's decision is nuisance value for BT. (but) the Cable &amp; Wireless deal has far-reaching implications," said Patrick Hickey of Henderson Crosthwaite.
The merger announced on Tuesday created Cable &amp; Wireless Communications, a company controlled by C&amp;W that brings together its own Mercury telecoms business with the British operations of NYNEX of the U.S., Bell Canada International, and Videotron to create a $7.5 billion group. Its constituent companies already reach almost 2.5 million homes for cable television.
"The stronger Cable &amp; Wireless is perceived, the more Oftel will get off BT's back," suggested Tressan MacCarthy, analyst at Panmure Gordon.
"BT is likely to push hard and use this as an argument for letting them into the market," she added of the potentially lucrative multi-media business opportunities.
Following the Oftel decision, BT shares fell, closing off 7 pence to 346 pence and BSkyB was off 40 pence to 637 pence, a low for the day. C&amp;W was up 4 pence to close at 470.
Oftel said that BT's promotion, which involves discounts on subscriptions to BSkyB for customers using a "Friends and Family" phone charges offer, was discriminatory.
BT said it was "baffled" by Oftel's statement and claimed that the promotion offered cost savings to customers and was open to all BT users.
Oftel's decision is particularly emotive, analysts said, as it follows hot on the heels of its rivals' merger and despite active lobbying by BT to have the restriction on it offering television lifted.
BT welcomed the new Cable &amp; Wireless Communications, saying that it would help to create a market where "competition can become the natural regulator." It points out that C&amp;W already has a telephony company that competes with BT.
The Conservative government has stood its ground on BT's ban from cable television, saying there will be a review of the situation in 2001 with a possible early look in 1998.
The opposition Labour party, currently leading in polls ahead of a general election which must be held by May 1997, has linked opening doors for BT to connecting up schools to the Internet.
BT's promotion with BSkyB would have seen cost savings of around 90 pounds ($143.8) a year per customer in subscription discounts and credits to telephone bills, a BT spokesman said.
Analysts said customers also stood to benefit from the emergence of C&amp;W as a strong domestic competitor to BT.
"As the businesses are put together, say a year out, it will begin to have an impact on BT," said Hickey.
"It will be a pretty competitive environment," he added.
Cable &amp; Wireless Communications has around 2.47 million homes in its sights through a variety of franchises throughout the country and access to 18 million business and domestic telephone customers through its Mercury unit.
It will be offering not just cable television and telephony but also home shopping and Internet link-ups.
"It will be a more coherent competitor to BT, customers will feel more confident of one name instead of fractured franchising," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
For BSkyB, which is 40 percent owned by media tycoon Rupert Murdoch's News Corp, the new cable power could mean harder negotiations on programme pricing, analysts said.
"Cable &amp; Wireless Communications might feel it has more muscle to flex but BSkyB could see it as desperate for content; they both will need each other," Hickey said. ($1=.6260 Pound)
WorldCom Inc. said Monday it agreed to acquire MFS Communications Co. Inc. in a stock swap worth about $14 billion, creating a giant international business communications company.
The combined company, to be called MFS WorldCom, will provide businesses with local and long-distance telephone, data communications and Internet services all on one network -- something no competitor yet can on a significant scale.
"We are creating the first company since the breakup of AT&amp;T to bundle together local and long-distance services ... controlled by a single company," said Bernard Ebbers, chief executive of WorldCom.
The deregulation of the telecommunications industry early this year promises to bring end-to-end service, but neither AT&amp;T Corp. nor any regional Bell can yet achieve it because of regulatory checklists and other issues.
"We think this gives us at least a two-year headstart over our competitors," Ebbers said in an interview.
For WorldCom, the fourth largest U.S. long-distance company, the deal will allow it to muscle into business markets that the regional Bells and biggest long-distance providers thought they had to themselves.
For MFS it provides the long-distance connection between its metropolitan circuits that it long needed, and a very healthy premium over the prevailing share price.
The merged company will have current sales of about $5.4 billion a year, with more than 500,000 business customers throughout North America, Europe and Asia.
It will have an end-to-end fiber optic network with 25,000 miles of fiber in service or under construction connecting all major metropolitan areas in the United States.
The merger comes only two weeks after MFS's $2 billion purchase of internet provider UUNET Technologies Inc. was completed on Aug. 12. Monday's merger is expected to close within eight months, the companies said.
Under the agreement approved by both companies' boards, each share of MFS common stock will be exchanged for 2.1 shares of WorldCom common stock. Owners of MSF stock will control about 56 percent of the enlarged company.
MSF's stock leaped $9.75 to close at $44.75 on Nasdaq.
But Worldcom stock fell $3.75 to $22.625 on Nasdaq after the company said the merger would dilute earnings for three years.
Although the transaction was valued at $55.39 per WorldCom share based on Friday's closing price, the steep drop in WorldCom's stock brought the value down to $47 a share, traders said.
"Over time, I think the deal will be viewed very positively, but it will take time," one takeover trader said.
Omaha, Neb.-based MFS has local networks in dozens of major U.S. cities, which could help it outflank regional Bells' lock on access to local business customers. This gave it a strong bargaining position in the merger talks.
"He (Ebbers) had the only one sizable company to merge with whose stock we really wanted (to own)," James Crowe, chief executive of MFS, told reporters.
Despite the substantial stock premium for MFS, savings would soon cover the cost of the deal, Ebbers said.
Jackson, Miss.-based WorldCom said it expects significant cost savings from reduced line and access costs. For example, MFS no longer has to build a $500 million intercity network, because WorldCom already has one. WorldCom will not have to take a share in a $450 million trans-Atlantic cable for its expanding international business because MFS is already a partner in one.
Ebbers said access charges that Worldcom pays to local telephone companies to reach their local customers would drop because MFS already has local lines to businesses in 45 U.S. cities, rising to 85 cities in two years.
Worldcom said in a separate statement that it has adopted a shareholder rights plan to discourage a hostile takeover. It said its move was not affected by the deal with MFS.
However WorldCom could nevertheless be a target for a regional Bell, tempted by the company's long-distance network, said mergers and acquisitions advisor Robert McNamara at consultant Broadview Associates.
"You have effectively put WorldCom into play with this (takeover) move," McNamara said.
Smiths Industries Plc said on Wednesday that its $30 million acquisition of Leland Electrosystems Inc of the U.S. offered a perfect product fit and access to major military aircraft supply contracts.
Leland is an electrical power generator manufacturer for military and civil aircraft. It has a key U.S. position to supply the F18 military aircraft which is the principal U.S. fighter jet.
It has also secured an order to supply the new version of the F18, involving 1,000 aircraft.  
Russell Plumley, director of public affairs, told Reuters in an interview that Leland's contract for these military aircraft alone involved "very substantial sums. Tens of millions of dollars over a five to six year period."
The smaller civil aviation side of the business includes a contract to provide generators for the 777 commercial aircraft. Smiths also services the F18 and 777 aircraft in other product areas, he said.
The Leland deal will be earnings enhancing in the first full year after acquisition. But Smiths said it would not be implementing job cuts or cost cutting.
Merchant banking and Madame Tussaud's could be deemed surplus to requirements as a new management team at Britain's Pearson Plc mould a media company for the next millennium, analysts said on Wednesday.
The Pearson empire contains prize brands such as the Financial Times newspaper and Penguin books but Marjorie Scardino, who will take over as chief executive in January, has said that overall profit performance is inadequate.
Analysts say Pearson has yet to complete its 1990s journey from industrial conglomerate to focused media enterprise.  
"The definition of their three core business areas -- Information, Education and Entertainment is a little imprecise," said Mark Beilby of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. "They may have to jettison some high value assets and focus on pinpoint areas."
Analysts cite Anglo-Dutch company Reed Elsevier as an example of a media company which has successfully identified key market areas and built up strong positions in these -- the provision of high-margin business information being Reed's speciality.  
They point out that Pearson, with a market capitalisation of around four billion stg, is not a media giant in global terms and that its capital and management time is being too thinly spread under the current structure.
Pearson's 50 percent stake in London investment bank Lazard Brothers -- which does not fit into one of the three core business areas -- is seen as a likely candidate for disposal.
"At some stage Lazards will go out of the door to make Pearson into more of a genuine media company," said Louise Barton of Henderson Crosthwaite.  
Close boardroom links between Pearson and Lazards could complicate matters. However, analysts say a sale would go a long way towards convincing doubters that Scardino is prepared to shake up the company.
The Tussauds Group, which includes London's famous Madame Tussaud's waxworks museum and a number of theme parks, is also seen as peripheral and a drain on resources for a company which could earn richer pickings from television and publishing.
U.S. consumer software publisher Mindscape is the most glaring weakness, with Pearson forecasting a 46 million stg loss this year from a business it paid $462 million for in 1994.  
"If it doesn't work, they'll have to close it down. But it might provide a positive return in a couple of years," said one analyst. Pearson is forecasting a return to profit for Mindscape in late 1997.
Pearson's uneven record has long made it potential prey for media rivals keen to pounce on its stellar assets and sell off the rest.
Recent newspaper reports suggested BSkyB was lining up a bid but the satellite broadcaster strongly denied them. Media and leisure company Granada and Reed-Elsevier have also been rumoured as possible bidders in recent months.  
"You cannot dismiss the idea that BSkyB would be interested in Pearson's television interests as it tries to build up its content," said Henderson Crosthwaite's Barton.
Pearson's television interests include the Thames and Grundy production houses and a stake in Britain's planned fifth terrestrial station.
Pearson television supremo Greg Dyke is thought to favour a de-merger of the television businesses. But analysts said such a move would almost certainly prompt a bid for that part of the business from any one of BSkyB, Granada, Carlton Communications or United News &amp; Media.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
The growing attractiveness of the subprime auto lending market was underlined again Monday when Olympic Financial Ltd said it had received expressions of interest from more than one potential acquirer.
Olympic expects to get a formal acquisition offer "within the next several weeks," said spokeswoman Jennifer Weichert.
The company's stock price shot up 6-1/4 to 23-7/8 in heavy trading Monday amid speculation of a buyout.
"We don't have an offer on the table ... and we don't have a price," Weichert said.  
She also declined to identify those expressing interest in buying Olympic. But she said, "Generally the kinds of companies that would look at a firm like this are other finance companies or regional banks or a conglomerate."
Two major regional bank companies have waded into the subprime auto lending market via acquisitions in the past year. KeyCorp bought AutoFinance Group Inc last September, and Southern National Corp is in the process of buying Regional Acceptance Corp.
"It's partly the banks saying they want to recapture this market share," said Robison-Humphrey analyst John Coffey.  
Minneapolis-based Olympic, as with other subprime lenders, makes loans to borrowers with credit histories classified as weak or on the average- to lower-end of prime.
"These companies exist today because the banks have been unable to serve these markets ... and because you don't need to be a deposit taker to make auto loans," Coffey said.
Returns on well-managed subprime car loan portfolios can be strong and attractive to banks, he said.
Earlier this year, the Consumer Bankers Association warned of pitfalls in the subprime business and cautioned banks against jumping headlong into this growing market.  
Analysts said banks that could be interested in Olympic include KeyCorp, Norwest Corp and BankAmerica.
Also mentioned by analysts as a possible suitor was the GE Capital unit of General Electric Co.
Whoever the buyer, Coffey said, Olympic is "intent on selling this company."
He suggested the price could go higher than the $30 per share that other analysts set Monday as the likely top limit.
Trading volume in Olympic shares Monday was triple normal levels. "There's some people taking some bets that it's going to go," said Principal Financial analyst Bob Ollech.
-- Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
DHL Worldwide Express is investigating whether to have a new Hong Kong operations centre near the territory's new airport, its Hong Kong and China area manager Andy Tseng said.
The proposed centre would be in addition to and complement the express freight centre now under construction at Chek Lap Kok in which DHL has an equity stake.
It would also be in addition to the firm's existing town centre base near Tai Tak airport and its satellite depots across the territory. DHL recently invested HK$15 million in a new automatic handling system able to process 4,000 items an hour at its existing airport base.
"It is a vital decision for our future and a huge involvement. We must make sure we make the right decision for us and for our customer's changing needs in the future. It is difficult and we are collecting as much information as possible on what our customers want," Tseng said.
DHL say they have been approached by four real estate developers offering green field sites or existing buildings for conversion in west Kowloon, a mainly industrial area close to the new bridge and motorway link to the new airport on Lantau island.
Other air cargo companies are also reported to be considering off-airport sites because they fear high building rents and staff relocation problems at the new airport.
DHL says a viability study being conducted by a task force should be complete by the end of the year. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
DHL Worldwide Express plans to strengthen its role as market leader in China by opening 14 new offices and employing another 600 staff within the next three years, said the company's area manager for Hong Kong and China, Andy Tseng.
DHL celebrates its tenth anniversary of China operations next month "far ahead of our competitors and with 30 per cent market share", Tseng told Reuters in his Hong Kong office near Kai Tak airport.
Tseng said China may win 10 per cent of all DHL sales within Asia by the year 2000. DHL expects to expand its Chinese network to 26 by the end of this year and 40 within the next three years from the current 19. The new offices, to include Harbin, Pudong and Kunming, are in 50-50 joint ventures witrh Chinese partners, DHL said.
DHL's China venture began in 1986 when it set up a joint venture with China's largest forwarding company Sinotrans. DHL says it received another boost three years ago when it became the first joint venture to offer express links between domestic Chinese companies.
"Choosing the right partner was vital as is demonstrating a long term committment to China. We have demonstrated that," Tseng said.
Like all fast freight companies trying to do business in China, Tseng says the lack of infrastructure is a handicap but DHL is leading the way by expanding its network.
"The distribution network and lack of freight links has been identified as the key problem. But service quality and flexibility is particularly important in China," he added.
The 20 year veteran with DHL said that unlike rivals such as Federal Express, it enjoys a competitive advantage in China by not having its own fleet of aircraft running in competition with Chinese airlines. Tseng says he wants to strengthen the company's "very good" existing relationships with third party local airlines such as China Northern and China Eastern.
Tseng also said the average express shipment is getting heavier and pointed to the marketing success of DHL's Jumbo Box as offering a simple one price product which customers find easy to understand. But he said DHL has not yet started offering the Jumbo Box to customers in China. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
China's economy grew by 9.6 percent in the first nine months of 1996, but many urban family incomes are lagging behind, the State Statistical Bureau said on Wednesday.
Chinese industrial output was up, farmers were on their way to a year of record grain harvests and the scourge of inflation had been tamed to a year-on-year 6.6 percent in the first three quarters, bureau spokesman Ye Zhen said.
"The development of the macro-economy overall appears good," Ye told a news conference.
Gross domestic product was 4.5675 trillion yuan ($550.3 billion) between January and September, up 9.6 percent from the same period of 1995, Ye said, but gave no details. China's GDP grew by 10.2 percent in 1995.
The average income for urban Chinese rose to 3,249 yuan ($391) between January and September, an actual year-on-year increase of 3.4 percent, he said.
But the incomes of many urban residents are lagging behind as China's economy booms, Ye said.
A survey of 35 major cities and towns had revealed that the incomes per family member of around 40 percent of households had declined, he said.
Some of the decline was the ordinary result of the birth of children or the retirement of ageing family members, he said.
"The second kind of situation is when the level of income falls or the level of income growth cannot keep up with inflation," Ye said, adding such problems were the cause of the income fall in about half the families surveyed.
"The difficulties of some low-income urban families have been aggravated," he said.
He gave no explanation of the decline in incomes suffered by some urban wage-earners, but many surplus workers in China's huge and largely stagnant state sector have been sent home on minimum salaries.
Although such workers are not considered unemployed and the state sector is highly reluctant to fire employees, China's urban unemployment rate hit 2.98 percent at the end of September, Ye said.
The number of unemployed in Chinese cities reached 5.3 million, he said, but gave no comparative figures.
China's urban jobless rate was 2.9 percent by end-June, the same as the official figure for 1995, but state newspapers have warned that unemployment, a major bugbear for Beijing's communist leadership, could shoot up to 7.4 percent by 2000.
Optimism over the economy and the success of a continuing policy of tight credit aimed at curbing inflation and reining in runaway growth has been boosted by predictions that 1996 will be a bumper year for China's hundreds of millions of farmers.
Government policies had encouraged farmers to increase the area of land under grain, and grain output this year was forecast to exceed 480 million tonnes, beating the 1995 record harvest by about 15 million tonnes, Ye said.
China had set a target of 465 million tonnes for 1996.
Other figures released by the Statistical Bureau also painted a positive picture of an economy that Beijing says is on target for a "soft landing" after years of breakneck growth.
Year-on-year retail price inflation in the first three quarters was curbed to 6.6 percent, down 10 percentage points compared to the same period of 1995, Ye said.
The Xinhua news agency on Wednesday quoted economic tsar Zhu Rongji as forecasting inflation would be below 6.5 percent in 1996 and as saying it would be possible to cut it to six percent next year.
Retail inflation hit 21.8 percent in 1994.
Silver King Communications Inc chairman Barry Diller said on Monday that the $1.27 billion stock-swap acqusition of Home Shopping Network would help fund Silver King's ambitious broadcasting plans.
"We have a long agenda and this helps certainly in developing the stations. We will get there quicker by combining the two companies," Diller told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Silver King agreed earlier to acquire HSN, a limping number two in U.S. TV retailing, for $1.27 billion in stock.  
The deal reunites Silver King, owner of 12 U.S. television stations spun off in 1992 by HSN, with its old parent and feeds speculation that Diller is close to launching a seventh U.S. television network.
Diller described as premature the speculation he would start a new national network, but said the cash flow from HSN would help Silver King pay for programming and other costs in developing its stations.  
Diller, a celebrated Hollywood executive credited with leading the 1980s launch of the FOX network, had already announced plans to drop HSN programming now carried on Silver King's stations in order to replace it with a traditional mix of locally oriented news, sports and other shows.
The stations in major markets such as Miami, New York and Los Angeles could attract significant audiences eagerly sought by advertisers, become much more valuable and form the nucleus of a national television network, industry analysts said.
"Silver King will use Home Shopping's cash flow. That will be the start of the benefits," Diller said.
"For Home Shopping, it adds businesses it is not now in," he said, adding the combined companies would be financially vigorous and poised to exploit new forms of electronic retailing.
"I am thrilled with the combination," Diller said.
"As to its more expansive possibilities, I believe the combination will allow the companies the very best way to pursue their very aggressive individual agendas with clarity and without conflict."
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713.
Netscape Communications Corp., said Tuesday its quarterly revenues hit a record $100 million in the third quarter, demonstrating the surging popularity of its Internet software among companies setting up internal networks known as intranets.
Netscape, which pioneered the popular Netscape Navigator browser software for cruising the Internet's World Wide Web, said its third quarter net income was $7.7 million, or 9 cents a share. A year ago, the fledgling company earned $175,000 on sales of $23.3 million.
"The third quarter of 1996 was another landmark quarter for Netscape, as Netscape server and client software solutions made significant inroads into the global enterprise market," said Netscape President and Chief Executive Jim Barksdale.
Wall Street, which had been expecting Netscape to report revenues of roughly $85 million to $90 million, had not expected the company to hit the $100 million quarterly revenue milestone until the second quarter next year, analysts said.
"I think the $100 million mark really shows significdant growth," said Hambrecht and Quist analyst Daniel Rimer, noting revenues grew 33 percent sequentially. "This is major league revenue for a quarter."
The quarterly revenue was well above the $80.7 million it posted for the whole of 1995. For the first nine months, Netscape earned $12 million, or 14 cents a share, on sales of $231 million. A year earlier, the company lost $7 million, or 10 cents a share, on sales of $44 million.
In after-hours dealing, shares of Netscape were firm, changing hands as high as $44.875, up from its closing level of $44.50 in Nasdaq market trading.
Barksdale said in an interview after the results that the indirect sales through third parties such as computer makers and systems integrators had accounted for 60 percent of overall sales, and 100 percent in Europe and Asia.
"We think it's a very efficient channel for us," he said. "More and more we're seeing our job as demand creation through our direct sales force. We just think it's a more efficient way for these kind of products (to be sold)."
"I'm very proud we have gotten to that as quickly, because we're very dependent on these people," he said.
Barksdale outlined a broad range of companies which had chosen Netscape software to build applications for their computer networks, or "intranet" applications.
Analysts said the rapid growth of the market will help Netscape continue to grow in competition with rivals like Microsoft Corp. and International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus Development Corp.
Barksdale said he remained concerned that competitors will be confused by the competitive frenzy, although he said key Netscape products remain lower in price those of Microsoft and Lotus, for example.
Rupert Murdoch, the Australian-born mogul who turned his father's newspaper business into a global media empire, is publicly grooming the next generation to succeed him.
But the 65-year-old who has transformed the industry worldwide still has a few more ambitions to achieve before he passes on the baton to his heirs and settles into retirement.
Instead of rolling up their shirtsleeves and getting inked up on the printing presses as Rupert did, his eldest son Lachlan and daughter Elisabeth will be dealing with the latest in digital technology and multi-channel television satellites.
With the dawning of the digital age, television is the business that Murdoch sees fuelling the next stage of growth of the News Corporation Ltd conglomerate built from the small beginnings of his father Keith's Adelaide newspaper.
The TV business already produces the most revenue of News Corp's five main operations -- newspapers, magazines, films and book publishing. News Corp recorded total revenues of A$13.0 billion (US$10.27 billion) in the year to June 30, 1996.
NEWS CORP, A FAMILY BUSINESS
Lachlan, 25, and Elisabeth, 28, are already familiar with the television business. Elizabeth owned and operated two TV stations in California before selling them earlier this year to join British Sky Broadcasting Plc (BSkyB).
Murdoch's other son, James, and daughter Prudence are not involved in Dad's business, but his wife Anna is on the board of "News", which is about 32-percent owned by the Murdoch family.
"Obviously he is lining up people to help," said a Melbourne based media analyst.
At 65, Murdoch has passed News Corp's own retirement age but with the business just entering a new phase of expansion he is not about to leave yet.
"News Corp is still being formed, that is why there is not much chance of him walking away tomorrow," said the Melbourne analyst, referring to News Corp expansion in satellite and cable TV.
The analyst said either Elisabeth or Lachlan would probably work in News Corp's U.S. business, before they could take over.
At the start of October, Elisabeth was appointed head of programming at BSkyB, which is 40-percent owned by News Corp. The British-based satellite TV operation nearly sank News Corp in debt six years ago, but has become a river of cash.
A week before his sister's promotion, Lachlan was appointed managing director of News Ltd, the Australian arm of News Corp.
"Lachlan's job is to get pay TV up and running (in Australia)," said one Sydney analyst of News Ltd's 50-percent interest in Foxtel, a cable TV network launched last year.
Murdoch has placed both his children under the tutorage of two of his loyal lieutenants, BSkyB managing director Sam Chisholm and News Ltd chairman Ken Cowley.
Most Murdoch watchers see Lachlan as the favourite to step into his father's shoes because of his appointment to the key 12-strong executive committee of News Corp, which is separate from the company's board of directors.
"You can't consider Elisabeth a real contender for the top job until she gets on that board," the Sydney media analyst said. He added that she would have to take Chisholm's job at BSky to get onto the executive committee.
"That is not going to happen for a while, whereas Lachlan has got the job of managing director of Australia and he is on the executive committee -- so that tells you who is the favourite right now," the analyst said.
Lachlan's growing confidence was evident recently at News Corp's annual meeting in Adelaide, where the Princeton graduate and rock climbing enthusiast firmly guided his father away from an impromptu press conference after the annual meeting.
The previous year the young Murdoch stayed firmly in the background as his father spoke about all.
"We have to go, I'm sorry," Lachlan told reporters firmly, ushering his father away once the questioning turned to the thorny matter of Australian media ownership rules.
EXPANSION THE NEW MURDOCH WAY
Since he inherited his father Keith's newspaper stable in 1952, Murdoch built his media empire by raising large slabs of debt -- often to the annoyance of his shareholders.
But in a move welcomed by analysts, Murdoch has said News Corp's future growth is likely to be based on a more conservative financing strategy.
"We now have US$2.5 billion in the bank and we intend to leave it there," Murdoch told News Corp's annual meeting.
This is a far cry from the dark days of late 1990 and January 1991, when Murdoch had to beg his bankers to get them to reschedule US$7.6 billion in debt after News Corp said it would be insolvent if the refinacing package was not completed.
Murdoch said News Corp's multi-billion dollar plans for pay television networks in the United States, Asia, Japan, Latin America and Australia would be financed from cash flow.
Analysts say Murdoch is unlikely to leave until he has widened News Corp's world television network reach and increased the company's reservoir of programming content.
"I think geographically he is almost there. There are only three areas he doesn't have exposure to, they are Canada, Africa and Eastern Europe," said one analyst.
"I don't think he is very interested in Eastern Europe, Canada is very difficult for foreigners from what I understand. But, I think there is a chance at some stage that Africa might be in his sights," the analyst added.
Murdoch will have to build up News Corp's programming further, particularly in film, analysts said. They said News is strong in sports and now news following the launch of the 24-hour a day Fox News channel launched on October 7.
"Sports, movies and news are the focus, but it wouldn't surprise me that he would have something to do with music as well at some stage," said a Melbourne-based analyst. "If you think about the sort of content you can take from one country to another, sports is obviously one, then news and film and the other one to my mind would be music." (A$1 = $0.79)
The Czech monthly trade deficit eased in September to 10.5 billion crowns from 14.5 billion in August, buoying market sentiment which had not expected the lowest single month total since January.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) on Thursday said the January-September trade shortfall hit an all-time high of 110.7 billion crowns, far surpassing 1995's full year deficit of 95.7 billion crowns.
Despite the fact that the overall deficit continues to break records, analysts said they were surprised by September's development. A Reuters survey of local analysts conducted on Wednesday had forecast a 13-15 billion crown monthly trade gap.
"I'm happily surprised. I think it's a relatively optimistic figure though it is not so good to make us revise our full year forecast," said Martin Kupka, an economist at Patria Finance, which has forecast a 150-160 billion crown deficit at year-end.
The CSU in a statement said that imports rose by 15.2 percent year-on-year, the same as in the previous month, while exports rose by 5.9 percent, after a 6.4 percent increase in August.
It added that strong growth in machinery and transport equipment imports continued, accounting for 38.3 percent of total imports.
Analysts said they were encouraged by the rise in this sector, saying that imports of this nature are needed to restructure industry, allowing it to produce more competitive goods for exporting.
The crown also reacted positively, dipping slightly following the release of the figures, before quickly regaining its losses as the market digested the statistics.
The crown was trading at 26.939 to the dollar at 1040 local time (0840 GMT) after opening at 26.945.
The rate implies a deviation from the midpoint of the currency basket of +2.87 percent, after the central bank's fixing on Wednesday at +2.80 percent.
"The market is pleased with the figures for sure, they seem to bear out estimates that slowly, the structure and size of the deficit is getting better," said one local forex dealer.
But, he added: "I don't think the crown itself will benefit too much from the numbers, but it certainly should not weaken."
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court Thursday to lift a lower court suspension of landmark federal rules aimed at prying open the nation's local telephone monopolies to competition.
The department, acting on behalf of the Federal Communications Commission, said the lower court's "stay"  could hurt consumers by delaying the introduction of full-fledged competition in the $100 billion market.
The request comes after a U.S. appeals court based in St. Louis last week suspended key provisions of the FCC's "interconnection" order, which spells out how long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators and others could operate in the local phone market under the new telecommunications law.
The rules were frozen while the appeals court considers a challenge to the FCC order by GTE Corp., the so-called Baby Bell phone companies, other local carriers and state regulators who want the measure overturned.
They argue the FCC overstepped the power granted to it by Congress. The FCC, among other things, ordered the regional Bells and other local phone companies to lease their lines to new rivals at discounts of 17 percent to 25 percent.
The three-judge appeals court panel said the opponents "have a better than even chance of convincing the court" that the FCC's rules conflicted with the law.
But the Justice Department told the high court the appeals court action "already imperils" the timetable set by Congress for opening the local phone market.
"The stay draws into question not just the timing of competition in the local market, but also the timing of full entry by the Bell companies into the long-distance telephone market," the department added.
Long-distance carriers AT&amp;T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp., among other companies, also asked the high court on Thursday to lift the stay.
Lawyers were divided over the likely outcome.
"They have a decent shot at lifting the stay," said Alfred Mamlet of Steptoe &amp; Johnson. He noted the FCC's success last year in having Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens lift a lower court stay that had blocked a major FCC airwave auction.
But others were less sure. "It's very difficult to predict," said Nicholas Allard of Latham &amp; Watkins.
The Justice Department request, along with those of the long-distance companies, is expected to go to Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, who oversees matters related to the St. Louis-based appeals court.
Thomas could refer the request to the full court for its consideration.
WorldCom Inc's audacious $14 billion takeover of MFS Communications Co Inc on Monday has both thrilled and unnerved share analysts.
They are thrilled by the strategy of one combined company beating industry giants to offer end-to-end business services, but some are worried by the MFS price tag and the danger of diluting WorldCom's hitherto rocket-like earnings trajectory.
"Strategically it is an extremely good move. It is likely to be the first to market such an offering for businesses," said analyst Guy Woodlief of Dean Witter Reynolds.  
"It will give WorldCom a breadth of services to business unmatched in the telecommunications industry," said Robert McNamara, a mergers and acquisitions advisor at consultants Broadview Associates.
I think there is some great strategic vision here," said Kevin Moore, analyst at brokers Alex Brown. He this morning upgraded his rating on the stock to strong buy from neutral.
Analysts have not finalised calculations, which are complicated by MFS's only-recently completed acquisition of Internet access company UUNET, but they say that on an earnings basis the deal looks extremely dilutive for WorldCom.  
"I would describe the price as a dizzying multiple, 20 times trailing earnings," said Bill Vogel of Dillon Read.
Most of the damage is done by huge new amortization charges -- $400 million a year for goodwill paid by MFS for UUNET, and $200 million a year for goodwill paid by WorldCom for MFS itself. WorldCom itself normally only pays $130 million a year in amortization.
Bernard Ebbers, WorldCom chief executive and chief executive of the new entity MFS WorldCom, said the new company should now be valued on a discounted cash flow basis, not on an earnings basis.  
"WorldCom has traditionally been very focused on earnings, price earnings multiples and anti-dilutive deals. They have crossed a very significant barrier here," said McNamara.
Woodlief said the company was now trading at 11 times cashflow for the new entity, instead of 10 times cashflow for WorldCom on its own, but with better cash flow growth rates now in prospect.
"The stock looks very attractive at this level," Woodlief said. "Its only an issue of shareholder perception. You are paying a higher premium for a higher growth rate."
Moore forecast that once WorldCom's management team does the rounds of investors in the next few days, the stock would bounce back.
"They are a very persuasive management team," Moore said. -- Nick Louth, New York Newsroom  212 859 1712
The keys to WorldCom Inc's $14 billion takeover of MFS Communications Co Inc are savings on duplicated costs and a chance to be the first with end-to-end service in U.S. businesses telecommunications.
WorldCom chief executive Bernard Ebbers acknowledged that there was a substantial premium in the stock terms offered for MFS but said savings would soon cover the cost of the deal.
"It is not to say that price isn't important, but it really depends on how quickly you pay for it," Ebbers told Reuters in an interview on Monday.  
MFS, with local networks in dozens of major U.S. cities, was in a unique position to outflank the regional Bell's lock on access to local business customers. It was in a position to get the terms it wanted.
"There aren't a lot of MFS's out there," Ebbers said.
"He (Ebbers) had the only one sizeable company to merge with whose stock we really wanted (to own)," James Crowe, chief executive of MFS, told reporters.
WorldCom stock soared a heady 57 percent a year over the last ten years. MFS has grown 41 percent a year in the three years since it was floated.  
Ebbers said savings and new market opportunities would mean the deal would pay for itself within five or six years, though for the first three years, 1997-1999, earnings per share would be diluted, but solidly accretive thereafter.
Worries that the stock transaction was too generous for MFS hit Worldcom stock, which was 3-3/4 or 15 percent lower at 22-5/8 in early afternoon. MFS soared 10 to 44-7/8, with both atop the active shares list on Nasdaq.
Ebbers said communicating the deal's advantages may take time. "If that happens we will have a significantly increased stock price from where we are today," he said.  
UUNET, the internet service provider which MFS completed buying earlier this month, will have the biggest savings.
Now it can provide both local and long distance connections without having to pay fees on outside networks. These fees had previously swallowed up half of its revenues.     Most
importantly, the combined company MFS WorldCom can present a comprehensive business package without having to use the networks or pay the fees of others.
End-to-end service is the promise of the U.S. deregulation which became law early this year, but neither AT&amp;T Corp nor any regional Bell can yet achieve it either because of regulatory checklists or negotiating tussles.
"We think this gives us at least a two-year headstart over our competitors," Ebbers said.
By being first, Ebbers expects to reap wholesale business from the regional Bells and GTE Corp, companies which at a retail level are its competitors.
Ebbers said that any Bell which wanted to offer local telephone service outside its own region could simply resell the MFS WorldCom network, under the Bell's own brand name. -- New York Newsroom  212 859 1712
Silver King Communication's $1.27 billion stock-swap acquistion of Home Shopping Network hastens Silver King's plans to become a conventional broadcast-TV powerhouse, Silver King said on Monday.
The deal re-uniting Silver King, spun off by Home Shopping five years ago, with its former parent also feeds speculation that Silver King chairman Barry Diller is closer to launching a seventh U.S. television network.
Veteran entertainment-industry executive Diller led the 1980s launch of News Corp Ltd's Fox network.  
Silver King spokesman Jason Stewart said Diller had no firm plans to launch a network and intended for now to reprogram Silver King's 12 stations carrying Home Shopping Network with conventional, locally oriented shows.
"With most stations emphasizing national and syndicated programs, there's room for local," Stewart said.
Stewart said some Silver King stations, located in top markets such as New York, Los Angeles and Miami, would be converted in about a year and others would follow.  
He declined to detail Diller's programming plans but said the stations would cover local news and sports with a format common on all Silver King stations. Some entertainment executives have speculated the Silver King stations would program daytime and late-night slots initially.
Silver King, which is paid by Home Shopping Network to broadcast its television retailing service, intends to seek cable-system carriage of Home Shopping as its stations convert to traditional television programming.
A Home Shopping spokesman declined to say whether or not the company had reached carriage deals with any cable systems.  
Diller said last spring that Silver King, which is partly owned by Tele-Communications Inc subsidiary Liberty Media, as is Home Shopping Network, intended to break away from Home Shopping but that the conversion would take two or three years.
Diller also has a stake in SF Broadcasting, owner of four stations, that could be woven into a new U.S. network.
"I think it's a very viable deal," said analyst Alvin Mirman of Commonwealth Associates. "Diller reduces Home Shopping's distribution costs immediately. That could be a much as $40 million a year."
Diller, a highly successful television programmer credited with the FOX network's racy and successful shows, is also expected to revive Home Shopping Network's fortunes. Home Shopping's sales have been flat for several years.
Home Shopping Network's shares were up 1/4 to 11-1/2, while Silver King's shares were down 1-7/8 to 27-5/8.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713.
AT&amp;T Corp's decision to name outsider John Walter as heir to Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Allen boils down to a basic gamble the company believes it must take to prepare for the torrent of competition ahead.
The nation's largest phone company rejected the standard telecoms pedigree shared by most top executives in the industry -- including Allen -- in favor of a more general set of business leadership skills Walter has demonstrated.  
Wednesday, AT&amp;T said Walter, until recently the chief executive of commercial printer R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co, would replace Allen as CEO and chairman in 18 months.
"The magnitude of the challenge has got to be at least of the same magnitude as the one that IBM faced," said Robert Miles, a top corporate turnaround consultant and author of a forthcoming book of case studies called, "Corporate Comeback."
But analysts who followed his tenure at Donnelley credited Walter with being a tough-minded visionary who successfully guided the expansion of his commercial publishing firm into a computer-savvy marketing services firm.  
"Walter understands how to run a business and make money," said Frank Dzubeck, president of Communcations Network Architects, a Washington, D.C.-based technology consulting firm.
At Donnelley, he closed businesses which could not carry their own weight. Earlier this year Donnelley spun off direct mailer Metromail Corp and is planning the spinoff of Donnelley Enterprise Solutions Inc, a provider of information management services to large law firms and investment bank.
This crucible of experience will come in handy for Walter at AT&amp;T as the giant company undergoes a similarly wrenching business and technology transition, but on a massive scale.  
Walter is certainly not without his critics on Wall Street. Financial analysts must be convinced he can scale his Donnelley lessons upward to address $80 billion-a-year AT&amp;T. Donnelley had 1995 revenues of $6.5 billion.
Wednesday, SBC Warburg analyst Barry Sine cut his rating on AT&amp;T to hold from buy, citing disappointment about the naming of Walter to lead the company. "In our view what was needed was a fresh face with a high-tech resume," he said.
Donnelley's growth came at a price, other analysts added, noting how despite Walter's visionary style the publisher struggled with falling earnings and restructuring issues.  
"A lot of things have been going wrong," said one analyst, citing the lower earnings outlook and falling stock price. The stock price has performed listlessly recently, trading near its 52-week lows. The stock Thursday was at 38-1/8, up 1/4.
Still, several analysts classified Walter among the new breed of top technology managers who earn their stripes as sophisticated consumers of technology but who know how to delegate decisions about the nuts and bolts of technology.  
Perhaps the most famous example of this type is an executive like Louis Gerstner, who joined IBM Corp in 1993 from consumer products distributor RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp and was with American Express Co prior to that.
"Maybe you don't actually have to have a guy who has time to get his hands dirty," Dzubeck said.
"I think the operating issues, the strategic issues become paramount," he said, while technology strategy can best be left to second and third-tier managers.
Other outsiders who have become the top-guns at successful technology companies include Jim Barksdale of Netscape Communications Corp, the former chief information officer of air freight forwarder Federal Express Corp.
Another example would be Alex Mandl, the man Walter has initially been hired to replace as second-in-command at AT&amp;T, following Mandl's departure in August to join a wireless communications venture of Associated Group Inc.
Before joining AT&amp;T in 1991, Mandl headed SeaLand Services.
"He's transformed a large, old-line company challenged by new technologies and changing markets into a tough global competitor," said Allen in a statement. "Meeting those challenges is what leading the 'new' AT&amp;T is all about."
Toronto, Canada's biggest city and financial capital, is bracing for a near shutdown Friday when protesters hit the streets against deep budget cuts by Ontario's Conservative government.
The so-called "Days of Protest" on Friday and Saturday are shaping up to be the biggest labour protest in Canada since the Winnipeg General Strike in 1919 in which one person died and 30 were injured after a confrontation with police and the army.
In a bid to paralyse this city of 2.2 million people, organisers hope to close businesses and disrupt services, including underground trains and Toronto's Pearson Airport, the country's busiest airport.
Thousands of unionized workers, civil servants and activists will picket outside the Toronto Stock Exchange, government offices, corporate headquarters and factories.
"I must tell you to prepare for days of inconvenience and frustration Friday and Saturday," Alan Tonks, chairman of Metro Toronto, said in a letter to residents on Thursday.
Ironically, the labour chaos comes as Toronto basks in the glow of being chosen by Fortune magazine as the world's best city for quality of life.
The protesters are furious with the government's plans to cut spending by C$8 billion ($5.9 billion) to wipe out a huge deficit by the turn of the century.
Since sweeping to power in 1995 promising a right-wing revolution in Canada's most populous province, the Conservatives have revamped labour laws, slashed welfare payments, introduced workfare and announced plans to close hospitals and trim education budgets.
"We want to put pressure on the government and its corporate supporters that we're not going to accept this anymore," Linda Torney, co-chairwoman of the "Days of Protest", said in a telephone interview.
Premier Mike Harris, who has been dubbed "Newt of the North" in reference to Republican U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, vowed the protests will not stall his "Common Sense Revolution."
City officials were bracing for a disruption of Toronto's bus and subway services, which handle about 1 million commuters a day. Transit officials on Thursday won a partial injunction against picketing at subway stations.
GO Transit, the train service that links suburban communities to Toronto, warned commuters that "service may be delayed, adjusted, interrupted or even cancelled."
Air travellers can also expect delays at Pearson Airport, which handles about 65,000 passengers a day, said airport spokesman Bruce Reid.
A Canadian court ruled Wednesday that picketers cannot interfere with essential airport workers, but can set up informational pickets. Airlines have promised to re-schedule flights if there are significant delays.
Meanwhile, several major manufacturers have cancelled day shifts. De Havilland Inc., a unit of transportation firm Bombardier Inc., said 6,200 employees at its Toronto aircraft plant will be off the job Friday.
The protest will not affect General Motors Corp.'s Canadian unit, which is getting back to work after a nearly three-week strike ended earlier this week.
The Breeders' Cup, a major international horse-racing event on Saturday, will not be affected by the protest.
On Toronto's Bay Street, the heart of Canada's financial community, traders not lucky enough to get a scarce hotel room are planning to sleep in their offices.
"Some essential people will be in the office. They might grab a couch or a sleeping bag," one broker said.
Other firms are sending their employees to offices outside Toronto or telling them to work from home. Many workers are expected to take the day off.
The Toronto Stock Exchange, Canada's biggest stock exchange, is planning a "business-as-usual day," despite a large rally planned outside the exchange.
Canadian consumers are set to play Scrooge again this holiday season to the despair of long-suffering Canadian retailers, according to a survey of consumers by accounting firm Arthur Andersen.
"Overall, the holiday season will not be too much different from last year," said Anderson partner Frank Anderson, who heads the firm's consumer products division.
In 1995, Canadian retailers posted one of their worst holiday seasons in recent years, followed by an unseasonably cool spring that hurt sales and forced chains to discount their stock.
Many chains have said they are counting on the holidays to boost results in 1996.
In the survey released this week, 58 percent of respondents said they would spend the same amount as last year, while 28 percent forecast lower spending and 14 percent said they would spend more.
The survey by Arthur Andersen and Quebec firm Le Groupe Mallette Maheu polled 1,220 Canadians in the second week of October.
The results were little changed from last year's poll when 58 percent said their spending would equal 1994 levels, while 29 percent said they would spend less and 13 percent more.
The findings came despite Canada's lowest interest rates in almost 40 years after a series of rate cuts by the central bank and commercial lenders.
Anderson said this year's survey "just shows you there's some underlying problems people have with respect to the level of debt and job security."
Canadians have opted for paying down heavy debt loads rather than being spendthrift, he said. Many people still also fear for their jobs after years of layoffs, Anderson added.
"It's almost like (you are) looking for an excuse to curtail your spending," he said.
"But then again," he added, "historically people have tended to say these things in October and then sort of spend normally when they get involved in the Christmas atmosphere."
Ivory Coast 1996/97 cocoa marketing season began on Thursday with the farm-gate price unchanged, the export tax lower, but confusion over freight rates.
Agriculture Minister Lambert Kouassi Konan told a news conference late on Wednesday that the farm-gate price would remain at 320 CFA francs per bagged kilo.  
Kouassi Konan, whose comments were broadcast on Ivorian state television on Thursday, said the Droit Unique de Sortie (DUS) export tax would be cut from 160 CFA francs to 150.
"To maintain the price, the government itself had to agree to a sacrifice of about 10 billion CFA francs, through the lowering of the Driot Unique de Sorti for cocoa," he said.
"If we had not made this cut we would have had to touch the price. The head of state insisted that the price of 320 CFA be maintained for our producers."
Exporters had been expecting no significant price change.
Shipowners spoke of disagreements with officials over an indicative freight rate for 1996/97.
The Office Ivoirien de Chargeurs had requested detailed information on proposed freight rates on shipments for 1996/97, they said.
"We cannot give that kind of information now that markets have been liberalised. This is a part of our business strategy," one said.
"Normally (the Ivorian shipping industry forum) FEDERMAR would organise a meeting to discuss matters but we have been waiting."
Kouassi Konan said the government had approved on Wednesday without amendment a decision taken by the Caisse de Stabilisation marketing board on the campaign.
Noting that the 1995/96 campaign was ending on Wednesday, he added, "As a result, remaining stocks must be declared to the Caistab."  
The opening of the season had been delayed by about three weeks. The government had given no explanation but some exporters linked the delay to the appointment only last month of new Caistab head Yves-Marie Koissy.
Koissy, who previously worked for the International Monetary Fund in Washington, has formally taken over but is not expected back in Ivory Coast until mid-November.
The 1995/96 season produced a record of around 1.2 million tonnes but a dispute over shipping rates blocked exports from early October to mid-November.
Export financers say bank liquidity was good with interest rates down on last year after Ivory Coast repaid some external debt.
"When exporters present their licences and backing contracts we can go ahead. Export licensing should be no problem," said an international banker.
Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauze, speaking on the sidelines of a two-day ministerial review in Gabon of the 1993 International Cocoa Agreement, said on Monday that Ivory Coast's 1996/97 cocoa production would be between 900,000 and 950,000 tonnes.
--Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90  
(c) Reuters Limited 1996 (c) Reuters Limited 1996
The fall in the Czech trade deficit to 10.5 billion crowns in September from 14.5 billion in August buoyed market sentiment, and the goods imported show industrial restructuring is on track, analysts said on Thursday.
Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) data released earlier showed the January-September trade shortfall hit an all-time high of 110.7 billion crowns, far surpassing the full 1995 deficit of 95.7 billion crowns.
But the September shortfall, the smallest one-month deficit this year, surprised analysts, who had forecast on average a gap of 13 to 15 billion crowns.
"I'm happily surprised. I think it's a relatively optimistic figure, though not so good as to make us revise our full year forecast," said Martin Kupka, an economist at Patria Finance, which has forecast a 150-160 billion crown deficit at year-end.
The CSU said September imports rose 15.2 percent year-on-year, the same as in August, while exports rose 5.9 percent after a 6.4 percent increase in August.
It added that strong growth in machinery and transport equipment imports continued, accounting for 38.3 percent of total imports.
Analysts said they were encouraged by the rise in this sector as these imports are needed to restructure industry, allowing it to produce more competitive goods for export.
The crown also reacted positively, dipping slightly on the release of the figures but quickly regaining its losses as the market digested the statistics.
The crown was trading at 26.939 to the dollar at 0840 GMT after opening at 26.945. The rate implies a deviation from the midpoint of the currency basket of +2.87 percent, after the central bank's Wednesday fixing at +2.80 percent.
"The market is pleased with the figures for sure, they seem to bear out estimates that slowly, the structure and size of the deficit is getting better," said one local forex dealer.
" don't think the crown itself will benefit too much from the numbers, but it certainly should not weaken," he added.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
A group of leading trademark specialists plans to release recommendations aimed at minimizing disputes over Internet address names.
The International Trademark Association is working on a white paper that will be completed in the next few months, David Maher, co-chair of the association's Internet issues committee, said in a telephone interview.
Colombia has taken the first step to lifting a constitutional ban on extradition but the country's crusading anti-drug prosecutor on Wednesday dismissed the move as virtually meaningless.
Amid threats of a repeat of the bloodbath unleashed by drug gangs against extradition in the late 1980s, a Senate panel approved draft legislation late on Tuesday to lift the prohibition on sending Colombians abroad to stand trial
But chief prosecutor Alfonso Valdivieso said the measure prohibited as much as it allowed and threatened to hog-tie the government in endless red tape. He said the legislation should be strengthened before a final vote in Congress.
"What we should be doing here is lifting the 1991 ban, which was a national disgrace. But the text approved by the Senate doesn't represent any advance," he said. "I'm not saying it's a step back but it leaves us in exactly the same position."
The draft legislation approved by an 11-8 vote by the Senate constitutional committee was also unlikely to satisfy Colombia's critics in the United States.
If the draft survives a required seven more congressional votes, it would open the door to extradition in some isolated cases. But it would not be retroactive, ensuring that the Cali cartel drug lords jailed last year, the target of a U.S. extradition request in June, will never see U.S. courts.
Furthermore, the legislation would prevent the extradition of criminals who voluntarily surrendered to Colombian justice and forbid their handover if they risked receiving stiffer sentences abroad than those they would face at home.
One of the main arguments by U.S. authorities, who have long pressed for the extradition of drug traffickers, is that Colombian justice is too lenient and convicted drug lords continue running their criminal empires from behind bars.
Drug lords led by Pablo Escobar, the late and notoriously violent leader of the Medellin cartel, waged a nationwide campaign of bombings, kidnappings and assassinations in the late 1980s and early 1990s to force the government to impose the constitutional ban on extradition passed by Congress in 1991. Memories of the thousands of people who died in that campaign of terror are still fresh.
Death threats against extradition supporters have been scrawled in the last week on walls around Cali, home to the powerful syndicate that edged out Escobar's organization to become the world's major cocaine supplier.
A group calling itself "Colombians For Peace" issued pamphlets reminding people of the bloodbath of the 1980s because of the extradition issue.  "Today that situation is once again threatening Colombia. Avoiding it depends on the government, congress and our judges," it said.
President Ernesto Samper, dogged by allegations of his own ties to drug lords, has said the extradition debate was poorly timed and insisted that priority should be given to his own proposal to introduce stiffer penalties for drug crimes.
China has urged the devoutly Buddhist region of Tibet to embrace atheism to counter the influence of the exiled spiritual leader the Dalai Lama and to raise itself out of poverty.
Beijing also lashed out at the European Union for allowing a meeting between officials of the European Parliament and the Dalai Lama, whom Beijing accuses of covertly working for independence for his Himalayan homeland.
"We have expressed our intense dissatisfaction and serious protest to the European side," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a regular news briefing on Thursday when asked to comment on the meeting.
To check the influence of the Dalai Lama, China called on officials in the restive region to preach atheism and instill socialist beliefs.
"To carry out atheistic education is a neccesary condition for...opposing the Dalai Lama's disastrous teachings aimed at causing chaos in Tibet and splitting the motherland," the Tibet Daily said in an edition seen in Beijing on Thursday.
"Many people have been fettered by religion and cannot break free of its bewitchment," the newspaper said in its October 14 edition.
Beijing vehemently denies accusations by western rights groups of widespread human rights abuses and religious persecution, pointing to rising living and health standards in the remote mountainous region.
The newspaper said traditional Buddhist beliefs, such as canons against killing animals, including pests, had hampered development of the backward and sparsely populated region.
"A lot of technology, because it violates religious tenets, is difficult to put into widespread use," it said.
The newspaper accused the Dalai Lama of seeking to split Tibet from China and of using his faith both as a weapon against the Tibetan people and as a shield to protect himself from criticism.
"In order to expose the Dalai's trick of keeping the people ignorant and to smash the Dalai's plot to split the motherland...we should implement atheist education," it said.
The Dalai Lama fled Tibet in 1959 after an abortive revolt against Chinese rule and won the Nobel Peace Prize 30 years later for his peaceful campaign for autonomy.
During his meeting with European Parliament officials in Strasbourg, France, on Wednesday, the Dalai Lama reiterated the call for autonomy for Tibet.
"The action of the European Union is open support and connivance with the splittist activities of the Dalai Lama," Shen said.
The Dalai Lama's comments to EU officials were restrained, dismissing any notion of economic sanctions against China over its rule in Tibet and advising that it would be wrong to try to isolate China.
The Dalai Lama frequently meets foreign leaders in a globetrotting campaign to win autonomy for his homeland. China has vehemently opposed such meetings.
A meeting between the Dalai Lama and Australian Prime Minister John Howard last month infuriated Beijing, which demanded that Canberra rectify its mistake or face possible trade retaliation.
Twentieth Century Fox joined the hunt for a larger slice of the Asia-Pacific video market on Thursday by announcing a new regional office in Hong Kong for its home entertainment division.
"We believe this is an under-developed market and therefore represents one of the best growth opportunities we have," said Jeffrey Yapp, president of Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment International. Twentieth Century Fox is owned By News Corp Ltd.
The new regional headquarters, which forms a crucial part of Fox's recent restructuring, will oversee marketing and distribution for video subsidiaries in Japan, Korea, Australia and India.
"In the last two years, Fox Home Entertainment International has completely restructured the way we do business," Yapp said.
"We set out to establish regional offices to provide a regional focus and give us an opportunity to better coordinate local efforts," he said.
About US$2 million has been spent and 15 people hired as part of the expansion into Asia, which accounts for 38 percent of the video division's revenue and contains its largest territory in terms of revenue contribution, Japan.
"It's for sure Japan is our major market and ahead of Hong Kong but this is a regional office and Hong Kong is the place in Asia to put your regional office," said Marc Cudennec, senior vice-president at Fox Home International.
The international focus was one of three critical strategies adopted in a drastic overhaul of Twentieth Century Fox 18 months ago, Yapp said.
"Fox realized that to become the premier filmed entertainment company, it had to focus on the international market place," he said.
Yapp said Asia's rising revenue contribution played a big role in reinforcing the importance of international expansion, as did an evening out of theatrical revenues from a prior ratio of 30 percent international, 70 percent U.S.
Fox's two other restructuring strategies, setting up four distinct production units and beefing up executive and creative talent, are well underway and reaping rewards, he added.
The number of films in development on the lot has increased from 60 to over 450 while the number of pictures being released by the studio has grown to 23 this year from 14 last year.
Fox also hopes to increase its share of the top 10 all time best selling live action videos from five to six with the video release on December 3 of its new blockbuster, Independence Day, which has grossed US$600 million in box office sales this year.
"Fox Home Entertainment is off to a very strong start on the road to the future," Yapp said. "Our projected revenues will increase 30 percent in 1997 and contribution will increase by 43 percent. The goal has been established our objectives have been set and the path to the future has been charted."
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
Changing Chinese tastes and a clutch of new factories have paved the way for spectacular growth in China for Swiss food maker Nestle SA, senior company officials said on Thursday.
Nestle's core portfolio of milk products, instant coffee, chocolate and sugar-based confectionary and prepared foods was all being produced in China, with a new plant producing mineral water scheduled to open next year, they said.
"We expect Nestle's total investment in China to reach five billion yuan ($602 million) by the year 2000," Nestle chairman Helmut Maucher told a news conference in Beijing.
Sales in China would grow exponentially, he said.
"We will double every two years, there is no doubt about it," he said.
Nestle had so far completed nine of 11 projects planned in its initial 2.8 billion yuan investment in China and expected sales in China, not including Hong Kong, of 1.5 billion yuan in 1996, company officials said.
Maucher said there were no immediate plans to open new factories. Nestle's focus in the short-term in China was on expanding established plants, but up to four new production projects could be established by 2000.
The changing tastes of Chinese consumers meant there was great scope for sales growth, particularly in the instant coffee market where Nestle's Nescafe brand already had a 75 percent share, officials said.
"It's clear the younger generation will increasingly drink coffee," said Theo Klauser, chief executive of Nestle (China) Investment Services Ltd, which supplies management services for Nestle's  Chinese joint ventures.
While Maucher was confident sales would double every two years, other Nescafe officials were more cautious.
"I think every two years is a very ambitious target," said Klauser, adding that a three-year timescale might be more achievable.
Although Nestle set up shop ahead of many of its multinational rivals in the 1980s, the company had lagged in breaking into China's rapidly growing ice cream market, a company official said.
Joint venture ice cream producers had already established a strong presence on the streets of Beijing and other northern Chinese cities, making it difficult for Nestle to catch up in the short term, said the official who declined to be identified.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
China said on Thursday that Sino-U.S. trade ties have improved but warned that major problems, including Beijing's long-delayed entry into the World Trade Organisation (WTO), still needed to be resolved.
It also hinted at possible retaliation against a U.S. decision last month to slap punitive charges against Chinese textile quotas -- a move it described as "totally unacceptable".
"The Sino-U.S. economic relationship is recovering, but two major issues concerning Sino-U.S. economic links need to be settled," the official China Daily on Thursday quoted Foreign Trade Minister Wu Yi Wu as saying.
Those two issues were Beijing's failure to join the WTO and the lack of permanent Most Favoured Nation (MFN) trade status for Chinese goods in the U.S. market.
A recent series of high-level exchanges between Beijing and Washington had helped ease friction over copyright piracy, textile quotas, Taiwan and human rights, the newspaper quoted Wu as saying.
"The tension in the Sino-U.S. relationship has been alleviated," Wu said, adding that further progress would hinge on Washington's stance towards Beijing's entry into the WTO and its yearly review of MFN.
"The annual examination of China's MFN status is already a shadow over Chinese and U.S. enterprises and adds a factor of instability," Wu said.
Washington annually reviews China's MFN status, which confers on trading partners the lowest possible tariffs. Beijing has urged the United States to make such treatment permanent.
"We hope the Most Favoured Nation issue will be solved once and for all," Wu said.
China is one of the United States' largest trading partners.
U.S. companies sold about $12 billion worth of goods to China last year, while Americans bought some $46 billion worth Chinese products.
Wu also called on Washington to work harder with Beijing to hammer out conditions whereby China could secure a coveted seat in the WTO, saying such moves would benefit trade links.
China has insisted on entering the world trade body under the easier terms accorded to developing nations. But many developed nations, including the United States, have demanded tougher entry requirements because of the sheer size of China's economy.
"Smooth settlement of the two issues would prove to be a great impetus to Sino-U.S. trade and economic cooperation," Wu said.
He said China's total foreign trade would hit $280 billion this year and forecast that figure to balloon to $400 billion in 2000 and $800 billion in 2010. She did not say how much exports or imports were expected to be.
Last month the United States decided to set punitive charges against China's 1996 textile quotas in a move that Beijing says was made without full consultation.
"We would like the United States to change its decision," Wu said. "Otherwise, China will take measures in response."
Cathay Pacific Airways is to add a fourth daily flight between Hong Kong and the Philippines because of increasing demand, a company spokeswoman has told Reuters.
The increase comes three weeks after the Hong Kong government announced the successful conclusion of six years of negotiations with the Philippines over a new Air Services Agreement (ASA).
The Confidential Memorandum of Understanding reached did not reveal how many more flights, and what increase in seat and cargo capacity was negotiated but industry sources said it is around 15 per cent. The Government described the route as one of the busiest and fastest growing in Asia.
From October 27, the Airbus A340 flight will leave Hong Kong at 7.50 AM local time and return at 10.50 AM local , Cathay says.
"There is an increasing amount of traffic between Hong Kong and the Philippines and this extra flight has very good convenient connectinns with flights out of Hong Kong to the USA and Canada," a Cathay spokeswoman said.
Filipino flag carrier Philippine Airlines already offers four flights per day from Hong Kong. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
Investors in Asian countries are turning to Tokyo's property market, formerly notorious for high prices, says Richard Mandel, managing director of the Japanese unit of U.S. real estate firm Kennedy-Wilson Inc.
Mandel told Reuters in a recent interview that his California-based company could bring foreign investors into Japan's real estate market, currently suffering from a five-year tailspin, and reactivate trade.
This should also help ease one of the Japanese financial industry's biggest headaches -- selling off land collateral to recover something from the huge bad loans run up by Japan's seven failed "jusen" mortgage firms, he said.
"We are probably the only foreign company participating in the Japanese real estate market... Many foreign investors from Asia are coming over here, working with us to try to buy Japanese real estate," he said.
Asian investors see Tokyo as a powerful world business centre and believe that real estate prices here have come down to attractive levels after plunging 75 percent from the peak reached in the early 1990s, he said.
Japanese property prices went into a tailspin in the early 1990s when the nation's "bubble economy" era of soaring stock market and real estate prices came to an end.
Mandel said that while Kennedy-Wilson has not concluded any deals since it started operations in Tokyo in 1995, negotiations are going on with Asian investors, focusing on commercial buildings and apartment buildings in central Tokyo with values of less than 10 billion yen ($89.2 million).
"You can buy prime Japanese real estate much lower than you can buy in Hong Kong and Singapore," he said.
Real estate industry sources say big Japanese investors such as life insurers and developers, which were aggressive buyers of land in the bubble era, are finding it hard to allocate new money for land transactions because they carry huge problem assets left from the collapse of the bubble.
Meanwhile, they say banks and construction firms are reluctant to sell their real estate at current prices, and this has greatly decreased market liquidity.
He said Japan should take a look at taxes on capital gains. Japan's real estate market needs many investors from all over the world to become a truly healthy market, but a major drawback is its capital gain tax on land transactions, he said.
The company took part in helping the Resolution Trust Corp in the United States recover debts following the 1980s crisis at "savings and loan" mortgage associations, using its auction-marketing system. Mandel believes the system would be useful for selling jusen property.
Mandel will soon leave Japan for New York. Ryosuke Homma, who will take over the Tokyo operation, said making use of the Internet could be a method of soliciting investors.
In July, Japan set up the Housing Loan Administration Corp to recover, over the next 15 years, more than six trillion yen ($53.5 billion) worth of the jusen firms' problem loans in the form of real estate collateral.
Earlier this month, several Japanese ministries set up a joint panel to work out measures to boost liquidity in the property market to facilitate collection of debt through collateralised real estate.
Mandel said real estate sales by the Housing Loan Administration Corp would happen from the start of fiscal 1997, beginning on April 1, "and this will firmly set market prices". ($1=112 yen)
The three-year-old partnership between British Airways Plc. and USAir Group Inc., already severely damaged by a potential competing alliance, moved closer toward collapse on Thursday when USAir said it was cancelling a key marketing agreement between the two carriers.
Arlington, Va.-based USAir said it will end the carriers' code-sharing agreement and sever the link between their frequent flier programmes as of March 29, 1997.
Code-sharing is a marketing agreement in which airlines share passengers and extend their reach to destinations they do not typically serve. Over the past several years, dozens of airlines have entered into such pacts.
In announcing the move, USAir cited the British carrier's proposed alliance with American Airlines, a unit of AMR Corp., that would link cargo and passenger services of the two powerhouse carriers.
USAir, which is 24.6 percent owned by British Airways, has fiercely opposed the British Airways-American partnership and sued both carriers, saying that they would dominate the trans-Atlantic market. A hearing on the suit is scheduled for Friday in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
"Clearly, it's difficult to simultaneously sue a partner and cooperate with a partner," said Samuel Buttrick of PaineWebber.
British Airways had no immediate comment on the action taken by USAir.
Although the relationship had certainly turned rocky, most analysts had expected USAir not to sever its relationship with the British carrier until the proposed British Airways-American pact was finalised.
The proposed alliance has raised antitrust concerns, awaits regulatory approvals and is tied to other aviation issues between the United States and Britain.
British Airways and American have argued that the deal would lead to greater competition on the routes because it would only go ahead if Britain and the United States agreed to a so-called "open skies" pact.
Although surprised by the move, industry analysts said it will have little impact on USAir, which received far less revenue from the alliance than did British Airways.
At the time the partnership began in 1993, USAir was a money-losing airline that desperately needed to reduce costs and expand its global presence.
British Airways invested $400 million under the partnership, but refused to pump any more money in the carrier because of its poor financial performance.
Since then, USAir's financial position has improved amid healthier times for the airline industry, but its costs are still higher than other major U.S. carriers.
"At the time the alliance was made, USAir received the cash which it needed, but today, it doesn't need it," said Glenn Engel of Goldman Sachs.
USAir's future plans are now more uncertain with the decision to sever ties with British Airways, especially because chief executive officer Stephen Wolf has stressed that he wants to expand USAir's transatlantic presence.
"I'm a little mystified. They don't have anything to replace it with yet," said Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette analyst James Higgins.
Quaker Oats Co. said Thursday its profits more than doubled in the latest quarter despite a drop in sales due to lower prices for breakfast cereals and heavy spending on its struggling Snapple beverage line.
Concerns over Snapple, which Quaker bought nearly two years ago for $1.7 billion, sent the company's stock down $1.75 to $34.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The stock is declining because they didn't announce any restructuring in Snapple, and some people had speculated they would," said William Leach, analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette.
Overall, Quaker Oats reported net income for the third quarter of $133 million, or 98 cents a share, up from $61.5 million, or 45 cents per share, last year. The latest's quarter's results, however, included a $133.6 million pretax gain on the sale of its frozen foods business and $23 million in pretax restructuring charges.
Excluding these factors, Quaker's third quarter net income was 53 cents a share, which was well above Wall Street estimates of 46 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks analysts' estimates.
Chairman William William Smithburg said Snapple was expected to report an operating loss for 1996.
"Clearly, the biggest challenge facing the company is Snapple's disappointing performance," Smithburg said. "The integrated sampling and advertising campaign that ended in mid-September generated some excitement behind the brand this summer, but we're still disappointed."
While he declined to give a specific projection, he said the 1996 operating loss for Snapple likely will be narrower than the loss it reported in 1995, although the business will not generate a profit.
Excluding goodwill and other charges, Snapple's loss for 1995 was about $6 million, according to analysts' estimates.
Smithburg said Quaker executives believe Snapple can show a cash profit, which is the goal for next year. He added that results for Snapple could improve next year, even if sales volume were flat.
Quaker said several alternatives were being considered for Snapple. Those options include making Snapple into a regional brand or perhaps selling the beverage operations.
The company said its overall third-quarter sales slipped to $1.44 billion from last year's $1.55 billion, which included $72.3 million in sales from divested businesses.
Total beverage sales fell 11 percent to $593.4 million, while beverage operating income dropped 43 percent to $34.0 million. In the United States and Canada, beverage income was $57.5 million, excluding a $16.6 million restructuring charge, down 15 percent from last year.
Quaker said Gatorade sports drink, the company's single best-selling brand, had a 20 percent rise in operating profit in North America.
Despite an unseasonably cool summer, which hurt sales of the drink, Gatorade is having another good year, Smithburg said in a teleconference.
U.S. sales of Gatorade will hit about $1 billion by the end of October, compared with sales of just over $1 billion for all 1995. That is "kind of an important milestone for us," Smithburg said.
Quaker said U.S. and Canadian foods' operating income of $92.6 million, excluding a $6.4 million restructuring charge, was up 7 percent from last year. These profits rose in spite of price decreases in ready-to-eat cereals.
Smithburg said Quaker's ready-to-eat cereals, such as Life and Cap'n Crunch, had a 14 percent rise in volume in the third quarter. Value-priced bagged cereals, which carry the Quaker name, are growing at more than 20 pecent.
The company said North American foods sales increased 2 percent to $687.3 million. International foods sales rose 9 percent to $152.9 million, with increases in Latin America, Europe and the Pacific. International foods operating income was $2.8 million, down from $3.7 million.
Boeing Co. said Thursday that profits climbed 13 percent in the third quarter on stronger sales of its commercial jets and higher interest income.
The world's largest aircraft maker said net income for the three months ended on Sept. 30 climbed to $254 million, or 74 cents a share, from $225 million, or 66 cents a share, in the 1995 quarter.
Sales soared to $5.60 billion from $4.38 billion in last year's third quarter as it delivered 54 airliners, up from 51.
The results were in line with Wall Street expectations, but Boeing stock fell $1.50 to $95.25 on the New York Stock Exchange, where blue-chip issues were dragged down by weakness in the bond market.
"It's a good quarter," said analyst Cai von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Co. He and other analysts said they expected Boeing to announce further production rate increases soon, particularly on its narrow-body 737 and jumbo 747 models.
Boeing already has announced plans to raise overall production to 36 airplanes a month by next year's third quarter from 22.5 currently in response to rising orders from the airline industry.
As the airline industry has pulled out of a long tailspin and begun posting healthy profits, Boeing has been scrambling to meet demand, boosting its work force by nearly 15 percent this year after years of deep layoffs.
Boeing Chief Executive Officer Phil Condit said in a statement that "airline-announced order activity continues to be encouraging."
As of Sept. 30 the company had orders for 435 planes worth $34.9 billion, compared with 346 planes worth $31.2 billion ordered in all of 1996.
"Based on current trends and barring unexpected disruptions, Boeing should be positioned for several years of sharply increasing earnings," said analyst Wolfgang Demisch of BT Securities.
Boeing revenues are expected to rise to about $22 billion this year from $19.5 billion last year and should hit nearly $36 billion next year, one analyst said.
On average, analysts see earnings of $2.94 a share this year compared with $2.57 last year, excluding one-time items, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
Analysts see earnings rising to $5.36 a share next year and $7.23 in 1998, First Call said.
Boeing said its sales increase for the quarter was slightly offset by higher costs from developing new versions of its 737 airliner and by a higher effective income tax rate.
For the first nine months, net income soared to $841 million, or $2.44 a share, from $175 million, or 51 cents a share, in the 1995 period, when the company took a $600 million charge for an early retirement programme.
Sales grew to $16.17 billion from $14.98 billion, though Boeing delivered only 156 airplanes, down from 170 a year ago.
Adding to the controversy over the safety of automobile air bags, the federal government's auto safety agency said Thursday it was stepping up an investigation into spontaneous air bag deployments in several General Motors Corp. cars.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said it has received five reports of air bags deploying without a collision in 1996-model GM mid-size sedans, due to corrosion in the air bag sensing and diagnostic module. In each case, water was spilled or leaked onto the floor of the vehicle.
The probe involves 395,994 cars currently on the road, including the 1996 Chevrolet Lumina and Monte Carlo, Buick Regal, Pontiac Grand Prix and Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme.
In its monthly defect investigation report, NHTSA said three of the "inappropriate deployments" resulted in injuries, but none resulted in death. Four of the five cars were travelling between 10 and 40 mph when the bags inflated.
News of the probe comes as the NHTSA is fielding growing numbers of calls from consumers worried about reports of child deaths caused by air bags.
Air bags have saved the lives of more than 1,136 adults since 1986, said NHTSA spokeswoman Liz Neblett. But with inflation speeds of up to 200 mph, they also have killed 28 children since 1990.
Earlier this week, NHTSA Executive Director Ricardo Martinez said the the agency advised that all children under the age of 12 should ride in the back seats of cars and trucks equipped with dual front air bags.
The agency raised that age after 5-year-old Frances Ambrose was killed by an air bag in a Nashville, Tenn., crash despite properly wearing lap and shoulder belts.
The NHTSA is now considering several remedies to the situation, including an auto industry request to reduce the inflation pressure of passenger air bags.
Other alternatives include requiring "smart" air bag systems that have the ability to detect the size and weight of the occupant and adjust inflation accordingly.
In the probe of the GM cars, NHTSA said all of the vehicles use an air bag sensing and diagnostic module that is located underneath the front passenger seat on top of the carpeting. It is not sealed, making it susceptible to moisture intrusion.
NHTSA said owners of the vehicles reported that they:
-- Spilled a glass of water on the vehicle floor.
-- Drove through a car wash.
-- Spilled a bucket of water on the vehicle floor.
-- Spilled soapy water on the vehicle floor.
-- Discovered a trunk leak in the vehicle.
In addition, the agency said it was investigating two other instances of unexplained air bag deployment, one when a driver was backing out of a driveway and another when the car was driving at 20 mph.
A GM spokesman said the automaker was cooperating with the probe.
The company also uses the same air bag sensor on 1994 and 1995 model versions of the same cars, but reported only two instances of airbag deployments due to corrosion.
In one case, GM said the vehicle was apparently flooded by an ocean tide, and in another case, the entire rear end of the vehicle was severely corroded.
The investigation was upgraded to an engineering analysis, in which the agency will examine and physically test the components in question.
Lucent Technologies Inc is beginning to reap the rewards of severing its umbilical to AT&amp;T Corp as regional Bells customers flock back.
Lucent's final fiscal 1996 quarter showed a surge in Bell orders as ageing networks were upgraded for demanding data and multimedia services. Lucent network system sales jumped 42.4 percent year-on-year to $3.2 billion in the quarter.
"It is underpinned by some fundamental demand that could keep it going," Don Peterson, Lucent's chief financial officer, told Reuters in an interview.  
One of the motives for AT&amp;T's divestment of Lucent was a loss of orders. The Bells, seeing AT&amp;T as a big new rival in their local calling areas, shied away from sharing their technological shopping lists with an AT&amp;T unit.
"That was a reason for the down quarter last year," Peterson said. Lucent's changed year end to September 30 from December 31 means this year only had three quarters. The 1996 final quarter corresponds to the third quarter in past years.
Overall revenues climbed 24.7 percent to $5.9 billion in the quarter from a year ago, though comparisons are likely to be less favorable next quarter.  
"The next quarter will be good as well, I am expecting, but it will be comparing itself to a record fourth quarter in 1995," he said. "It would be a mistake to expect 25 percent growth again, unfortunately."
Increased orders have led to the hiring of 5,000 new factory workers even as Lucent implements a plan to cut jobs overall.
Peterson said the company cut 12,600 of the 23,000 posts scheduled to be eliminated from Lucent's 125,000 workforce by 1998. But with the new hires, net job cuts only amount to about 7,000.  
The closing of the Phone Center stores, the pruning of product lines and a drop in rental revenues combined to hold back revenues. Still, a host of new products, including a long-range cordless phone and sophisticated answering machines, are being prepared for 1997.
Next year, "we're going to have 70 percent of a sales in products that aren't on the shelf today," he said.
Peterson predicted that new products would continue to galvanize the company's performance.  
Voice processing, a $3 billion market that is growing at 20 percent a year, would bring products for handling services such as phone banking and voice mail, as well as linking databases and phone systems for telemarketing.
"We'll see an increase in the data focus in our business," he said, noting soaring use of frame relay and the Internet.
In business communications, Peterson expected the emergence of a "voice server" product in both public and private networks.
Such a product would combine the roles of telephone exchange with a network server just as fiber optic cables now carry a mixture of data and voice, both digitized.
-- New York Newsroom 212 859 1712
General Motors Corp, still feeling the effects of a 20-day Canadian autoworker strike, told all of its 5,000 Lordstown, Ohio, assembly workers they will be idled for two weeks, company and United Auto Workers officials said Thursday.
The plant, which makes the Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire small cars, has run out of transmissions supplied by a GM parts plant in Windsor, Ontario.
Workers at another assembly plant, the Buick City complex in Flint, Mich., could also be idled on Friday or early next week, industry sources said. The plant, which employs 5,236 hourly UAW workers, makes LeSabre, Park Avenue, Eighty Eight and Bonneville, mid-sized cars.
"It's a situation we are looking at," said GM spokesman Tom Klipstine, adding the automaker continues to monitor all of its vehicle and parts production operations.
As of Thursday afternoon GM had told 23,801 assembly and parts workers in the United States and Mexico to stay home because of a shortage of parts from its Canadian operations.
The Lordstown shutdown is the second U.S. plant where GM has suspended operations completely since 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers began an escalating strike on Oct. 3. The first plant to go totally down was Detroit/Hamtramck, which makes Cadillacs.
The Lordstown plant has three crews. The first crew was told to report back Nov. 10, the second Nov. 11 and the third Nov. 12, a UAW spokeswoman said.
Losing production of the mid-sized cars is not expected to have a big impact on sales, because the automaker had between 67 and 98 days supply of those vehicles on dealer lots as of the end of September, according to Autodata Corp.
But GM could feel the impact of lost production of its popular Cavalier and Sunfire cars. The Cavalier had a 61 days supply and the Sunfire had 61. The industry generally considers 60-days supply to be ideal.
GM and CAW negotiators reached agreement on a new three-year labour pact Oct. 22. The deal was approved by CAW members Wednesday.
The Canadian operations are being brought up in stages.
A top executive at Compaq Computer Corp. said Thursday he was leaving the world's biggest personal computer maker and joining an Internet startup, giving credibility to the startup and setting in motion a realignment of Compaq's sales managers.
The executive, Ross Cooley, is leaving a position where he was in charge of Compaq's $7 billion North American computer business for a job at a four-month-old company with the high-tech name of pcOrder.com
At pcOrder.com, Cooley, 55, will fill the as-yet unfilled positions of chairman and chief executive officer and have a salary of $1 a year, plus stock options.
His move from an executive suite at a Fortune 500 company to a technology startup mirrors that of several other executives over the past few years, notably, the departure of Alex Mandl from AT&amp;T earlier this year.
Cooley's move provides instant credibility to pcOrder.com, which provides a marketplace on the Internet for buying and selling personal computers and related equipment.
Cooley's retirement had been rumoured in the industry for several months, and Compaq announced that James Schraith, formerly president of The Cerplex Group Inc. and president of AST Research Inc., is replacing Cooley.
"Ross's plan to retire has been in discussion for awhile and there were some rumours flying," Eckhard Pfeiffer, president and CEO of Compaq, said in an interview. "The time has come and obviously as you can see the succession is already in place ... Ross has been a great leader."
At the same time, Compaq created a new sales infrastructure, hiring Richard Snyder, a Dell Computer Corp. executive, for a newly-created position of general manager, worldwide sales. All the heads of Compaq's five geographical sales regions -- Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Japan, Latin America and North America -- will report to him.
Previously, these regions all reported directly to Pfeiffer. But as Compaq has quickly grown to an almost $18 billion company in recent years, Pfeiffer said he needs another executive to stay in touch with the day-to-day activities of its worldwide sales and support organisation.
"Fifteen people have been reporting to me up until this morning when we announced this change," Pfeiffer said. "That is a huge top management organisation. As the company grows, my tasks change."
Compaq has grown from its origins as one of the first companies to successfully clone the IBM PC in the early 1980s to become the leading PC maker in the world. Cooley is known for his strong relationships with the PC sales channel and his role in building Compaq's massive distribution.
"My feelings in joining pcOrder are similar to those I had in joining Compaq almost 13 years ago," Cooley said in a statement. "Back then, I saw the irrefutable logic of the PC as a new paradigm in computing. Today, I believe pcOrder's technology and vision represent an irrefutable value proposition."
Before joining Compaq in 1984, Cooley held several sales and marketing positions at International Business Machines Corp., where he worked for 18 years.
"Getting Cooley is really a coup for pcOrder," said John McCarthy, a Forrester Research analyst, adding that Cooley's connections in PC distrubution will give pcOrder more credibility as it builds its system. Cooley's acceptance of $1 a year for salary, plus stock options, is also a "big bet on the company's upside (potential)," McCarthy said.
pcOrder for now is still private, but the company is contemplating a public offering eventually.
"We do not have a set plan or a set timetable, but we are seriously considering it," said founder and President Christina Jones. Jones will continue as president of pcOrder. The post of chairman and CEO had been vacant since the start-up was founded in June.
pcOrder.com is a marketplace on the Internet, where PC makers, components makers and distributors list information and receive orders.
Currently, sales representatives and customers user pcOrder to configure build-to-order PCs, compare prices, and place orders over the Internet. The system contains information on over 150,000 products in the PC industry from over 800 manufacturers.
The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court Thursday to lift a lower court suspension of landmark federal rules aimed at prying open the nation's local telephone monopolies to competition.
The department, acting on behalf of the Federal Communications Commission, said the lower court's "stay" could hurt consumers by delaying the introduction of full-fledged competition in the $100 billion market.
The request comes after a U.S. appeals court based in St. Louis last week suspended key provisions of the FCC's "interconnection" order, which spells out how long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators and others could operate in the local phone market under the new telecommunications law.
The rules were frozen while the appeals court considers a challenge to the FCC order by GTE Corp., the so-called Baby Bell phone companies, other local carriers and state regulators who want the measure overturned.
They argue the FCC overstepped the power granted to it by Congress. The FCC, among other things, ordered the regional Bells and other local phone companies to lease their lines to new rivals at discounts of 17 percent to 25 percent.
The three-judge appeals court panel said the opponents "have a better than even chance of convincing the court" that the FCC's rules conflicted with the law.
But the Justice Department told the high court the appeals court action "already imperils" the timetable set by Congress for opening the local phone market.
"The stay draws into question not just the timing of competition in the local market, but also the timing of full entry by the Bell companies into the long-distance telephone market," the department added.
Long-distance carriers AT&amp;T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. among other companies, also asked the high court on Thursday to lift the stay.
Lawyers were divided over the likely outcome.
"They have a decent shot at lifting the stay," said Alfred Mamlet of Steptoe &amp; Johnson. He noted the FCC's success last year in having Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens lift a lower court stay that had blocked a major FCC airwave auction.
But others were less sure. "It's very difficult to predict," said Nicholas Allard of Latham &amp; Watkins.
The Justice Department request, along with those of the long-distance companies, is expected to go to Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, who oversees matters related to the St. Louis-based appeals court.
Thomas could refer the request to the full court for its consideration.
French state-owned Air France said on Thursday it was ready to take on the tougher competition posed by the planned foray into the French domestic market of British flag-carrier British Airways Plc (BA).
BA's TAT French unit on Wednesday announced a joint 780 million franc bid ($151.2 million) with French private bank Rivaud for domestic carrier Air Liberte that will double its share of takeoff and landing slots at Paris' busy second airport Orly to 20 percent.
An Air France spokeswoman acknowledged BA's increased presence in France aviation would have an impact.
"It certainly has consequences for us. But we will continue with improving our product and service while cutting our costs and prices," she said.
BA, one of the world's most profitable airlines, will in first instance manage its French assets from a distance. TAT and Air Liberte will operate separately at least until 1999 when the latter should have returned to profit.
The Creteil commercial court will meet on Friday to study the BA/Rivaud offer while an Air Liberte creditors meeting has the final say. Such a meeting is due within a month.
But the way to the finishing line is not without obstacles.
In Brussels, Richard Branson's Virgin Express said it planned to raise its bid for Air Liberte, in administration since September 26. The court-appointed administrator, Maitre Baronnie, reacted sceptically.
"I have never seen any bid by Virgin so I do not see how they can increase a bid," he told Reuters by telephone.
"Strictly theoretically, a new bid could be made just up to the moment that the creditors meet and accept the offer on the table. In the end the creditors decide," he added.
The pilot's union of Air France's domestic unit Air France Europe urged the government and chairman Christian Blanc to join the bidding battle for Air Liberte.
"It will allow our country to remain master of its skies. Otherwise, there will not be any French competition because there will be no French air transport industry left," the SNPL pilots union said in a statement.
Air France is constrained from expanding in France until 1997, under conditions imposed by the European Commission for state rescue capital injections.
Air Inter dominated French domestic routes and Orly airport until as recently 1995 when the French government decided to open some major domestic routes to competition ahead of full liberalisation from April 1997.
A spokesman for Air Inter, now renamed Air France Europe, said the company had at the moment a 60 percent share on the total French market.
Domestic airlines Air Liberte, AOM and TAT have all tried to carve out market share ahead of liberalisation with a price war. As a result they have suffered financially.
Industry sources said Air France could strike back in 1997 and make a bid for AOM to prevent another foreign airline from setting foot in France alongside British Airways.
French state-owned Air France said on Thursday it was ready to take on the toughening competition in its domestic market posed by British Airways Plc (BA).
BA's TAT French unit on Wednesday announced a joint 780 million franc bid ($151.2 million) with bank Rivaud for domestic carrier Air Liberte that will double its share of takeoff and landing slots at Paris' busy second airport Orly to 20 percent.
An Air France spokeswoman acknowledged BA's increased presence in France aviation would have an impact.
"It certainly has consequences for us. But we will continue with improving our product and service while cutting our costs and prices," she said.
BA, one of the world's most profitable airlines, will in first instance manage its French assets from a distance. TAT and Air Liberte will operate separately at least until 1999 when the latter should have returned to profit.
The Creteil commercial court will meet on Friday to study the BA/Rivaud offer while an Air Liberte creditors meeting has the final say. Such a meeting is due within a month.
But the way to the finish line is not without obstacles.
In Brussels, Richard Branson's Virgin Express said it planned to raise its bid for Air Liberte, in administration since September 26. The court-appointed administrator, Maitre Baronnie, reacted sceptically.
"I have never seen any bid by Virgin so I do not see how they can increase a bid," he told Reuters by telephone.
"Strictly theoretically, a new bid could be made just up to the moment that the creditors meet and accept the offer on the table. In the end the creditors decide," he added.
The pilot's union of Air France's domestic unit Air France Europe urged the government and chairman Christian Blanc to also make a bid for Air Liberte.
"It will allow our country to remain master of its skies. Otherwise, there will not be any French competition because there will be no French air transport industry left," the SNPL pilots union said in a statement.
Air France is constrained from expanding in France until 1997, under conditions imposed on European Commission for state rescue cas.
Air Inter dominated mestic routes and Orly airport until as recently 1995 when the French government decided to open some major domestic routes to competition ahead of full liberalisation from April 1997.
A spokesman for Air Inter, now renamed Air France Europe, said the company had at the moment a 60 percent share on the total French market.
Air Liberte, AOM and TAT have all tried to carve out market share ahead of liberalisation with a price war. As a result they have suffered financially.
Industry sources said Air France could strike back in 1997 and make a bid for AOM to prevent another foreign airline from setting foot in France alongside Brr airlines in France are Air Littoral, owned by the Dufour family, the Dubreuil family's Regional airlines, Xavier Leclerq's Brit Airlines as well as Nouvelles Frontieres' Corsair and Euralair.
Britain's largest home loan lender, Halifax Building Society, said on Thursday it was confident of avoiding any takeover attempt when it floats on the stock market and sheds mutuality for bank status next June.
"We think we can stand on our own feet," David Gilchrist, Halifax's director of corporate affairs said.
The society, currently owned by its savers and borrowers, gave details of the timetable for conversion and flotation, which analysts have said could be worth 10 billion pounds ($16 billion).
The building society's nine million members will vote early next year on the conversion, which it is billing as the largest single extension of private share ownership in Britain.
Gilchrist said a decision to transfer its business to an existing subsidiary rather than to a company specially formed for conversion meant it would lose five-year protection against takeover but underlined its confidence.
Analysts said the consolidation of Britain's financial services market is likely to continue, which could make the large and successful Halifax a possible target.
The flotation will project the society into the top 25 companies in London's blue chip FTSE 100 stock index and Gilchrist said he was confident that shareholders would be convinced by its past performance to reject any bid attempt.
The concersion method raises the voting threshold needed for the plans to go ahead, but Gilchrist said he believed the necessary 50 percent of investing members entitled to vote would be met.
"We have no real concerns as far as the voting is concerned," he said, adding that previous building society conversions achieved approvals of over 75 percent.
"It will be a high-profile exercise, backed up by plenty of marketing," Gilchrist said.
But members eagerly expecting to find out how big a windfall they are likely to receive when they receive free shares will have to wait until January before getting any indication.
The Halifax said its members would be given full details of the conversion plans and share distribution scheme. This will tell them the number of shares they are entitled to and indicate their likely price range, based on prevailing market conditions.
Gilchrist said members would get a "broad idea" at this time, but would not be drawn on what the share hand-out was likely to be worth to the average investor.
He also declined to comment on the cost of the conversion exercise. But it seems likely to provide a boon to Britain's postal service and the printing industry as well as the financial and legal advisors working on the plans.
"The major element of cost is printing and mailing. We will be sending 75 million items of mail," he said.
Halifax members will be urged to vote "as quickly as possible" on the proposals and a special general meeting will be held in February. If members vote in favour, they will be sent details of share allocations in April or May.
Gilchrist said the Halifax had not yet done any market research on how many members would sell or retain shares.
"We are not trying to persuade people one way or another whether to hold shares or to sell the shares," he said, adding the Halifax would sound out members nearer the time.
The society will remind its members that they should have at least 100 pounds in total in their accounts on December 31 1996.
If eligible for a variable distribution of extra free shares they "may need to top up their share accounts to the November 25 1994 level by the date of the special general meeting" to qualify for the maximum number of free shares, the Halifax said. ($1=.6260 Pound)
British utility South West Water could face bids worth 950 million pounds ($1.51 billion) if the government lets Severn Trent and Wessex Water go ahead with firm offers, analysts said on Thursday.
However, the official go-ahead for any bids is likely to be linked to a deal offering price cuts for customers, they said.
"The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) will probably decide that the bids are against the public interest unless there are price cuts to outweigh that," said Philip Hollobone, analyst at Williams de Broe.  
The DTI could make an announcement as early as Friday, four weeks after a report on the bids was submitted in late September by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
Wessex Water announced that it intended to bid for South West Water on March 7, prompting Severn Trent to put its hat into the ring on March 21.
Both intended bids were automatically passed on to the MMC under government regulations covering mergers of water and sewerage companies.  
Neither Wessex nor Severn Trent put a figure on their offers, preferring to wait for the DTI's decision, while South West Water has consistently said the bids are unwelcome.
South West Water shares were trading at 705.5 pence, up 4.5 pence by 1253 GMT, prompting analysts to suggest that offers might be at around 750 pence per share which would value the company at over 950 million pounds ($1.52 billion).
Severn Trent, which covers the Midlands of England, saw its shares trading down 3.5 pence to 572.5 pence while Wessex, which abuts South West Water's territory in the west of England, was down two pence to 317.5 pence.  
Analysts expect the DTI to seek price cuts of about 20 percent before giving approval to bids, after it secured decreases of 15 percent by 2001 from France's Lyonnaise des Eaux last year when it paid 823 million pounds for Northumbrian Water.
"I think there will be significant price cuts proposed but they will not want to over-egg the pudding," said Nigel Hawkins of Yamaichi.
The government could put off the two bidders if price cut requirements were too severe, analysts pointed out, leaving South West Water with no incentive to cut bills.  
"They won't want to make the price cuts so big that there's no bid, because then there will not be any price cuts at all," Hollobone said.
The area, which has large stretches of coastline demanding hefty investment to meet environmental standards, has some of the highest customer bills in the country and a strong representation from the minority opposition Liberal Democrats.
"There are some clear political incentives for getting price cuts in place for the area, particularly ahead of a general election," the analyst said.  
The ruling Conservative party, which sold off the water companies in 1989 as part of its privatisation drive, must call a general election by May 1997 and currently lags in the polls behind the opposition Labour party.
Analysts said price cuts of 20 percent should still leave South West Water an attractive proposition for the two bidders, who stand to make cost savings from combining operations.
United Utilities, formed from the merger of North West Water and Norweb earlier this year, forecast that it could secure annual savings of 140 million pounds by the turn of the century.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 5427717
Britain's second biggest bus company Cowie Group said on Thursday it had been approached by a defence vehicle manufacturer about forming a leasing joint venture targeting clients including the Ministry of Defence.
Cowie told Reuters that the tentative approach was made this year and added it was open to considering new options for business.
But the bus and vehicle leasing giant played down a report by The Times newspaper which said the firm was pitching specifically to buy and lease battle tanks, saying such a move was "highly speculative at this stage."
Cowie conceded, however, that it had received an approach to form a leasing venture for military transportation equipment.
Robert Blower, a Cowie spokesman, told Reuters: "A UK defence equipment supplier has approached us. Their idea was for Cowie to come in as player in the consortium, with our leasing expertise. We will assess each new idea on its merit."
He said any move into military vehicles would have to be cleared with shareholders first, "...for ethical as well as commercial reasons," he said.
On the subject of leasing out frontline tanks, Cowie was more cautious, admitting that there had been "No talks with the MOD. But it has said that under PFI (private finance initiative) there aren't any no-go areas," said Blower.
The PFI scheme, applied across all government departments, aims to bring private cash into public spending projects including the option of the government leasing equipment. But an MOD spokesman was highly sceptical. Asked whether the MOD would put out a PFI project for tank leasing, he said
"Emphatically not. In broad terms the PFI rules nothing out and nothing in. Cowie has won a contract (with us) for forklift trucks and that is not. There is nothing else on the cards, let alone tanks."
Cowie announced on Wednesday it had won a material handling equipment leasing contract with the MOD.
Tank and transportation equipment manufacturers like Vickers Plc were sceptical about reports of expanding leasing to military vehicles.
A Vickers spokeswoman told Reuters it did not approach Cowie and described the idea of leasing battle tanks as "fairly off the wall. Leasing trucks is one things, but a battle tank is quite another," she said.
But GKN was more circumspect. Asked whether it had approached anyone about the idea of forming a leasing venture to supply the MOD or other markets, a spokeswoman said "There are no discussions at this stage."
U.S. giants have already caught onto the concept, with world leaders like Lockheed Martin and McDonald Douglas exploring the possibility of leasing military aircraft to Eastern European countries.
At 1159 GMT Cowie shares were down nearly two pence at 372-3/4p in a generally weaker British stock market.
Jacques Maillot, the chairman of travel group Nouvelles Frontieres who dropped out of bidding for French regional airline Air Liberte, is planning to buy airline AOM and expects formal talks to start in weeks.
"I have had several talks with CDR executives and we have started to exchange information," Maillot said. "We have not talked about a price or anything. There is an old valuation by bank Warburgs and I have asked bank Paribas to look at the company," he told Reuters by telephone.
AOM, created in 1991 by the merger of Air Outre Mer and Minerve, is owned by the Consortium de Realisation (CDR), a state entity charged with selling former assets of the Credit Lyonnais bank.
Maillot announced on Wednesday he had withdrawn from talks on the rescue Air Liberte, in administration since September 26, because of the size of the financial commitment required.
A 780 million french franc ($151.2 million) bid by British Airways Plc French TAT unit and bank Rivaud is now the only remaining one on the table and expected to be approved by the Creteil commercial court on Friday.
Maillot had planned to buy Air Liberte with the help of Royal Air Maroc, the Moroccan national airline, holiday resorts group Club Mediterranee and Rivaud.
In a second stage he had planned to enlarge his consortium to acquire AOM and merge it with Air Liberte in a big French private company to rival the state-owned Air France group.
"First there will be talks between Paribas and Warburgs, then we will start official talks with CDR," Maillot said.
"Because CDR is part of the state there have to be discussions with Bercy (the Finance Ministry) and the privatisation commission," he added.
Maillot said Warburg had put a value of one billion francs on AOM but he noted the study was a bit outdated as much had changed in the market since.
A spokesman for the CDR confirmed that there had been informal contacts with Maillot but no formal sale procedure had been started.
"We have had informal contacts," Jean-Michel Raingeard, spokesman at the CDR told Reuters. "But we have not started a sale procedure, which is a very strict procedure," he added.
"The financial situation at AOM is better than at many other airlines," he said. CDR would only decide to start a sale procedure for AOM "When we feel that the time is ripe."
"We always planned to sell AOM at the time of the liberalisation of French airspace (in 1997)," Raingeard said.
"What we need now is a period of calm. A lot has happened recently and at a quick pace. We need to wait at least a few weeks to see the new lie of the land," he said.
This summer, AOM chairman Alexandre Couvelaire had been in talks with Air Liberte chairman and founder Lotfi Belhassine about a merger. But the deteriorating financial situation at Air Liberte led to a break-up of talks.
A spokeswoman for AOM said the company would now go it alone."There's British Airways, Groupe Air France and us. We have 10 to 12 percent of slots at Orly and we will go it alone," she said.
French state-owned airline Air France said on Thursday it was ready to take on the toughening competition in its domestic market posed by British Airways Plc (BA).
BA's TAT French unit on Wednesday announced a joint 780 million franc bid ($151.2 million) with bank Rivaud for domestic carrier Air Liberte that will double its share of takeoff and landing slots at Paris' busy second airport Orly to 20 percent.
An Air France spokeswoman acknowledged BA's increased presence in France aviation would have an impact.
"It certainly has consequences for us. But we will continue with improving our product and service while cutting our costs and prices," she said.
After approval by the Creteil commercial court, scheduled to meet on Friday, and an Air Liberte creditors meeting due within a month, BA would take a 70 percent stake in loss-making Air Liberte.
A spokesman for Air France Europe, the domestic wing of the Air France operation, said the company had an 80 percent market stake on the routes it operates and 60 percent on the total French market.
But from April 1997, European liberalisation of the airline industry will fully throw open French airspace to competition.
The French government moved the door ajar at the start of 1996 by allowing competition on the busy Paris-Toulouse and Paris-Marseille routes which were controlled by state-owned Air Inter, part of the Air France group.
Other French airlines had been allowed to fly less busy domestic routes as well as European and international routes.
British Airways bought its first 49.9 percent stake in TAT in 1993 and obtained the remainder last July.
Air Liberte, AOM and TAT have all tried to carve out market share ahead of liberalisation with a price war against Air France Europe, the renamed Air Inter. As a result they have suffered financially.
AOM, headed by Alexandre de Couvelaire, had been in talks with Air Liberte with an eye to a merger but the worsening financial situation at Air Liberte, which sought creditor protection on September 26, made a deal impossible.
AOM, 99 percent owned by the Consortium de Realisation (CDR) which was set up to sell assets of bank Credit Lyonnais, is now going it alone with some 10 percent of the slot at Orly.
But industry sources said Air France could strike back in 1997 and make a bid for AOM to prevent another foreign airline from setting foot in France alongside British Airways.
Air France Europe plans to launch its "Shuttle" service between Paris and Toulouse next Monday, offering more departure times and a "turn up and go" service without reservations, as a major plank in its new commercial approach.
Other airlines in France are Air Littoral, owned by the Dufour family, the Dubreuil family's Regional airlines, Xavier Leclerq's Brit Airlines as well as Nouvelles Frontieres' Corsair and Euralair.
For Air France, these domestic lines are important potential feeder operations for its international operations.
Last week Air france signed cooperation pacts with Continental Airlines and Delta Airlines Inc of the U.S. and it aims to sign a similar deal with an Asian airline in 1997.
These pacts are based on the "hub and spoke" theory in which airlines boost traffic by taking passengers from a smaller airport to a big "hub" for long distance flights to another hub. From the second hub another smaller plane can be used to take the passenger to the final destination. ($1=5.157 French Franc)
French state-owned airline Air France said on Thursday it was ready to take on the toughening competition in its domestic market posed by British Airways Plc (BA).
BA's TAT French unit on Wednesday announced a joint 780 million franc bid ($151.2 million) with bank Rivaud for domestic carrier Air Liberte that will double its share of takeoff and landing slots at Paris' busy second airport Orly to 20 percent.
An Air France spokeswoman acknowledged BA's increased presence in France aviation would have an impact.
"It certainly has consequences for us. But we will continue with improving our product and service while cutting our costs and prices," she said.
After approval by the Creteil commercial court, scheduled to meet on Friday, and an Air Liberte creditors meeting due within a month, BA would take a 70 percent stake in loss-making Air Liberte.
A spokesman for Air France Europe, the domestic wing of the Air France operation, said the company had an 80 percent market stake on the routes it operates and 60 percent on the total French market.
But from April 1997, European liberalisation of the airline industry will fully throw open French airspace to competition.
The French government moved the door ajar at the start of 1996 by allowing competition on the busy Paris-Toulouse and Paris-Marseille routes which were controlled by state-owned Air Inter, part of the Air France group.
Other French airlines had been allowed to fly less busy domestic routes as well as European and international routes.
British Airways bought its first 49.9 percent stake in TAT in 1993 and obtained the remainder last July.
Air Liberte, AOM and TAT have all tried to carve out market share ahead of liberalisation with a price war against Air France Europe, the renamed Air Inter. As a result they have suffered financially.
AOM, headed by Alexandre de Couvelaire, had been in talks with Air Liberte with an eye to a merger but the worsening financial situation at Air Liberte, which sought creditor protection on September 26, made a deal impossible.
AOM, 99 percent owned by the Consortium de Realisation (CDR) which was set up to sell assets of bank Credit Lyonnais, is now going it alone with some 10 percent of the slot at Orly.
But industry sources said Air France could strike back in 1997 and make a bid for AOM to prevent another foreign airline from setting foot in France alongside British Airways.
Air France Europe plans to launch its "Shuttle" service between Paris and Toulouse next Monday, offering more departure times and a "turn up and go" service without reservations, as a major plank in its new commercial approach.
Other airlines in France are Air Littoral, owned by the Dufour family, the Dubreuil family's Regional airlines, Xavier Leclerq's Brit Airlines as well as Nouvelles Frontieres' Corsair and Euralair.
For Air France, these domestic lines are important potential feeder operations for its international operations.
Last week the company signed cooperation pacts with Continental Airlines and Delta Airlines Inc of the U.S. and Air France aims to sign a similar deal with an Asian ailrine in 1997.
These pacts are based on the "hub and spoke" theory in which airlines boost traffic by taking passengers from a smaller airport to a big "hub" for long distance flights to another hub. From the second hub another smaller plane can be used to take the passenger to the final destination. ($1=5.157 French Franc)
Britain's Halifax Building Society is confident of avoiding any takeover attempts once it sheds its mutual status and becomes a publicly quoted bank in June next year, a senior official said on Thursday.
"We think we can stand on our own feet," David Gilchrist, Halifax's director of corporate affairs said in a telephone interview following the announcement of the timetable for the planned conversion and 10 billion stg flotation.
The building society's nine million members -- its savers and borrowers -- will vote on the conversion early next year.  
Gilchrist said the building society's decision to convert by transferring its business to an existing subsidiary rather than to a company specially formed for conversion meant it would lose a five-year protection against takeover.
It will also increase the voting threshold needed to give the plans the go-ahead. But he was confident that it would achieve a sufficiently high vote in favour, of at least 50 percent of all investing members entitled to vote.
"We have no real concerns as far as the voting is concerned," he said, adding that previous building society conversions achieved approvals of over 75 percent.  
"It will be a high-profile exercise, backed up by plenty of marketing," Gilchrist said.
Earlier, the Halifax said its members would be given full details of the conversion plans and share distribution scheme in January 1997. This will tell them the number of shares they are entitled to receive and an indication of their likely price range, based on prevailing market conditions at the time.
Gilchrist said members would get a "broad idea" at this time, but would not be drawn on what the share hand-out was likely to be worth to the average investor.  
He also declined to comment on what the cost of the conversion exercise would be, saying only that a significant element would be printing and postage costs.
"The major element of cost is printing and mailing. We will be sending 75 million items of mail," he said.
Halifax members will be urged to vote "as quickly as possible" on the proposals and a special general meeting will be held in Sheffield in February. If members vote in favour, they will be sent details of share allocations in April or May.
Gilchrist said the Halifax had not yet done any market research on how many members would sell or retain shares.  
"We are not trying to persuade people one way or another whether to hold shares or to sell the shares," he said, adding the Halifax would sound out members nearer the time.
But it was working on the basis that a "large number" would have already planned to spend their windfall and had set up a share dealing system to ensure an orderly market for what will be the largest single extension of private share ownership ever in Britain, Gilchrist added.
Those who decide to sell will be offered a free-of-charge postal service for a limited period while those who keep them can chose between placing them in a nominee company or receiving a share certificate. The Halifax favours the nominee option.
The society will remind its members that they should have at least 100 stg in total in their accounts on December 31 1996.
If eligible for a variable distribution of extra free shares they "may need to top up their share accounts to the November 25 1994 level by the date of the special general meeting" to qualify for the maximum number of free shares, the Halifax said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Overseas subsidiaries of Japan's top brokerage, Nomura Securities Co Ltd, virtually doubled their combined profits in the half year to September, energised by strong earnings in Europe.
An official of Nomura told Reuters its 66 subsidiaries abroad made a total of 17.7 billion yen ($158 million) in pre-tax profit in the six months, the first half of Japan's fiscal year, almost double the approximately nine billion yen ($80.36 million) in the same period a year earlier.
The main reason was a more than five-fold profit surge at Nomura's European subsidiaries, while results in the Asian and American regions were generally flat, the official said in a telephone interview.
Nomura released its half-year parent and group earnings results on Tuesday but did not give details of earnings in the regions.  Despite the buoyant business overseas, the brokerage tipped into the red on a parent and a group net basis after deciding to put large sums of money into helping an ailing financial affiliate.
In the business year that ended on March 31, 1996, pre-tax profits at Nomura's consolidated subsidiaries overseas totalled 47.1 billion yen ($420 million).
In the April-September period, European subsidiaries led by London-based Nomura International Plc posted current profits of 9.8 billion yen ($87.5 million), more than five times the amount a year earlier, the official said.
Hitoshi Tonomura, a new chairman who arrived at Nomura International in London in the spring of last year, helped to bring operations there back into profit, he said.
Current profits at Asian units were 1.5 billion yen ($13.3 million), slightly up from a year earlier, while those at subsidiaries in the American region totalled 6.4 billion yen ($57.1 million), little changed from a year earlier, he said.
The official said successful asset securitisation business by Nomura International fuelled the sharp increase in the profits there, and profits in the United States came largely from the asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities business.
As for business in Asia, he said: "We are still in the stage of investment and not getting returns yet, although we are allocating our human and other resources there."
Nomura used to announce its group results about a month after the parent earnings but has brought the group statement forward to provide more timely information for investors.
In the first half, it posted parent current profit of 69.87 billion yen ($623 million), while group current profit stood at 74.76 billion yen. However, it posted a hefty half-year net loss on both a parent and consolidated basis after providing financial support of 37.1 billion yen ($331 million) for an ailing non-bank financial affiliate in the Nomura group.
The parent net loss was 337.54 billion yen ($3.01 billion) and the group net loss 332.01 billion yen ($2.96 billion).
Current profit is pre-tax, and includes losses and gains on non-operating activities. Net profit is after-tax and includes extraordinary profits or losses.
($1=112 yen)
China said on Thursday it could produce more than enough grain to feed its growing population despite frequent natural disasters, rapid industrialisation, long-term droughts and a chronic lack of arable land.
In a draft "white paper" released to allay foreign fears that future Chinese grain shortages could overwhelm world markets, agricultural officials said the nation could feed its people for decades to come.
"Instead of forming a threat to the world's grain supply, China will make ever greater contributions to it," it said. "The Chinese government and people have the ability to solve the problem of grain supply by relying on their own efforts."
Some Western analysts have said China's rapidly expanding economy is swelling the nation's appetite for grain for food and feedstuffs. That in turn could force Beijing to make huge purchases on an international market already stressed by rising global demand.
The draft white paper, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, dismissed such fears as a repeat of Western scepticism towards China's agriculture that greeted the nation's victorious communist revolutionaries in 1949.
"Some Westerners predicted that the Chinese government would not be able to solve the problem of feeding the country's population," the document said.
"History has already shown the futility of such a prediction," it said in one of many proud references to China's achievements in feeding 22 percent of the world's population with only about seven percent of its cultivated land.
China could raise output by protecting existing farmland, raising efficiency, improving irrigation, changing consumption patterns and reclaiming wasteland, it said.
By 2000, the Chinese population was expected to reach 1.3 billion, pushing total demand for grain to 500 million tonnes.
By the time the population peaked at 1.6 billion people in 2030, total demand was expected to be around 640 million tonnes, but Beijing was confident output would be able to keep pace even in the face of diminishing returns from the land.
"China can achieve its desired total grain output target if the annual average increase rate of per-unit area yield is one percent from 1996 to 2010 and 0.7 percent from 2011 to 2030," the white paper said, adding much bigger increases were likely.
For the next few decades, China planned to reclaim more than 300,000 hectares (741,000 acres) of wasteland each year to make up for land lost to industrialisation.
The proportion of inland and offshore waters used for aquaculture would be increased and the area of irrigated land would be raised to 53.30 million hectares (131 million acres) by 2000 from 49.33 million hectares (122 million acres), it said.
At least 10 percent of China's grain, more than 45 million tonnes last year, was lost annually between planting and consumption. Improved storage and shipping could help make savings of 20 million tonnes a year possible, it said.
China has long been eager to dismiss foreign fears that its demand for grain will spiral out of control, but Beijing has so far failed to convince its most vocal doubters.
China did not have enough land to sustain its economic growth rate and would find it hard to boost grain output, Lester Brown of the U.S.-based Worldwatch Institute said last month.
But the white paper said Beijing would turn to the international market only to make up for local shortages or natural disasters and to adjust the types of grain available.
"If China were to import a great deal of grain from other countries, the international grain market would be under severe pressure, and poorer countries would be unable to obtain enough supplies of cheap grain from it," the document said.
Jacques Maillot, the chairman of travel group Nouvelles Frontieres who dropped out of bidding for Air Liberte, is now talking to acquire airline AOM, a spokeswoman for his travel group said.
Maillot on Wednesday announced that he and partner Royal Air Maroc had withdrawn their participation in talks to rescue Air Liberte, in administration since September 26, because of the size of the financial commitment required.
A 780 million franc bid by British Airways Plc French TAT unit and bank Rivaud is now the only remaining on the table and expected to be approved by the Creteil commercial court on Friday.
But Maillot, also chairman of small French airline Corsair, told La Tribune that his withdrawal did not mean he had given up his ambitions to create a private French airline group.
"I remain a candidate for the takeover of AOM, that remains my priority," he told the paper. He was not immediately available for comment on Thursday.
Maillot had planned to buy Air Liberte with the help of Royal Air Maroc, holiday resorts group Club Mediterranee and Rivaud. In a second stage he had planned to enlarge his consortium to acquire AOM and merge Corsair, Air Liberte and AOM in a big French group to rival the state-owned Air France group.
AOM, created in 1991 by the merger of Air Outre Mer and Minerve, is owned by the Consortium de Realisation (CDR), a state entity charged with selling former assets of the Credit Lyonnais bank.
AOM is worth about one billion francs, according to industry sources. Maillot said that talks with the CDR had already started but he added that no timetable had been fixed.
"Before anything, we need to know the price of AOM. That is not the case today," he told La Tribune.
This summer, former AOM chairman Alexandre Couvelaire had been in talks with Air Liberte chairman and founder Lotfi Belhassine about a merger.
But the deteriorating financial situation at Air Liberte led to a break-up of talks. The CDR has since fired Couvelaire.
Couvelaire had a 10 percent stake in Air Liberte and previously headed small airline Euralair. He was appointed in June 1996 to replace Mark Rochet who had jumped ship to TAT.
In his statement on Wednesday, announcing his withdrawal from Air Liberte, Maillot said his ambitions were unchanged.
"The first tourist group in France, Nouvelles Frontieres, which is active in air transport since many years through its Corsair subsidiary, the only airline in France with systemic postive results since the takeover in 1990, remains available to participate in the constitution of a a private group of which the necessity seems, at least as far as words are concerned, to be felt unanimously and which has become more urgent today than yesterday," he said in the statement.
"It is necessary not to compromise the success of such an ambition which implies the both restucturing of the Groupe AOM and, later, the privatisation of Groupe Air France," he said.
"It is totally clear that there is urgency and there is no more time for hesitations," he added.
Investors in Asian countries are turning to Tokyo's property market, formerly notorious for its high prices, says Richard Mandel, managing director of the Japanese unit of U.S. real estate firm Kennedy-Wilson Inc.
Mandel told Reuters in a recent interview that his California-based company could bring foreign investors into Japan's real estate market, currently suffering from a five-year tailspin, and reactivate trade.
This should also help ease one of the Japanese financial industry's biggest headaches -- selling off land collateral to recover something from the huge bad loans run up by Japan's seven failed "jusen" mortgage firms, he said.
"We are probably the only foreign company participating in the Japanese real estate market... Many foreign investors from Asia are coming over here, working with us to try to buy Japanese real estate," he said.
Asian investors see Tokyo as a powerful world business centre and believe that real estate prices here have come down to attractive levels after plunging 75 percent from the peak reached in the early 1990s, he said.
Japanese property prices went into a tailspin in the early 1990s when the nation's "bubble economy" era of soaring stock market and real estate prices came to an end.
Mandel said that while Kennedy-Wilson has not concluded any deals since it started operations in Tokyo in 1995, negotiations are going on with Asian investors, focusing on commercial buildings and apartment buildings in central Tokyo with values of less than 10 billion yen ($89.2 million).
"You can buy prime Japanese real estate much lower than you can buy in Hong Kong and Singapore," he said.
Real estate industry sources say big Japanese investors such as life insurers and developers, which were aggressive buyers of land in the bubble era, are finding it hard to allocate new money for land transactions because they carry huge problem assets left from the collapse of the bubble.
Meanwhile, they say banks and construction firms are reluctant to sell their real estate at current prices, and this has greatly decreased market liquidity.
He said Japan should take a look at taxes on capital gains. Japan's real estate market needs many investors from all over the world to become a truly healthy market, but a major drawback is its capital gain tax on land transactions, he said.
The company took part in helping the Resolution Trust Corp in the United States recover debts following the 1980s crisis at "savings and loan" mortgage associations, using its auction-marketing system. Mandel believes the system would be useful for selling jusen property.
Mandel will soon leave Japan for New York. Ryosuke Homma, who will take over the Tokyo operation, said making use of the Internet could be a method of soliciting investors.
In July, Japan set up the Housing Loan Administration Corp to recover, over the next 15 years, more than six trillion yen ($53.5 billion) worth of the jusen firms' problem loans in the form of real estate collateral.
Earlier this month, several Japanese ministries set up a joint panel to work out measures to boost liquidity in the property market to facilitate collection of debt through collateralised real estate.
Mandel said real estate sales by the Housing Loan Administration Corp would happen from the start of fiscal 1997, beginning on April 1, "and this will firmly set market prices" ($1=112 yen)
China said on Thursday that Sino-U.S. trade ties have improved but warned that major problems, including Beijing's long-delayed entry into the World Trade Organisation (WTO), still needed to be resolved.
It also hinted at possible retaliation against a U.S. decision last month to slap punitive charges against Chinese textile quotas -- a move it described as "totally unacceptable".
"The Sino-U.S. economic relationship is recovering, but two major issues concerning Sino-U.S. economic links need to be settled," the official China Daily on Thursday quoted Foreign Trade Minister Wu Yi Wu as saying.
Those two issues were Beijing's failure to join the WTO and the lack of permanent Most Favoured Nation (MFN) trade status for Chinese goods in the U.S. market.
A recent series of high-level exchanges between Beijing and Washington had helped ease friction over copyright piracy, textile quotas, Taiwan and human rights, the newspaper quoted Wu as saying.
"The tension in the Sino-U.S. relationship has been alleviated," Wu said, adding that further progress would hinge on Washington's stance towards Beijing's entry into the WTO and its yearly review of MFN.
"The annual examination of China's MFN status is already a shadow over Chinese and U.S. enterprises and adds a factor of instability," Wu said.
Washington annually reviews China's MFN status, which confers on trading partners the lowest possible tariffs. Beijing has urged the United States to make such treatment permanent.
"We hope the Most Favoured Nation issue will be solved once and for all," Wu said.
China is one of the United States' largest trading partners.
U.S. companies sold about $12 billion worth of goods to China last year, while Americans bought some $46 billion worth Chinese products.
Wu also called on Washington to work harder with Beijing to hammer out conditions whereby China could secure a coveted seat in the WTO, saying such moves would benefit trade links.
China has insisted on entering the world trade body under the easier terms accorded to developing nations. But many developed nations, including the United States, have demanded tougher entry requirements because of the sheer size of China's economy.
"Smooth settlement of the two issues would prove to be a great impetus to Sino-U.S. trade and economic cooperation," Wu said.
He said China's total foreign trade would hit $280 billion this year and forecast that figure to balloon to $400 billion in 2000 and $800 billion in 2010. She did not say how much exports or imports were expected to be.
Last month the United States decided to set punitive charges against China's 1996 textile quotas in a move that Beijing says was made without full consultation.
"We would like the United States to change it's decision," Wu said. "Otherwise, China will take measures in response."
The Prague Stock Exchange suffered one of its biggest one-day falls ever on Friday, as waning foreign interest due to a lack of market transparency continues to run roughshod over the beleaguered bourse.
Four of the PSE's five largest issues fell sharply in active trading, pulling the Reuters RPIX index down nearly three percent to 1,052.
Long-criticised for its lack of transparency and regulation, analysts say Friday's loss was yet another sign that investors, especially foreigners, are pulling out of the market having grown tired of failed promises of reform.
"There's just a total lack of interest in this market," said Jan Sykora of Wood and Company.
"Fundamentally, companies look pretty cheap, but the lack of foreign interest and Czechs fearing the possibility of a devaluation and looking abroad (mean) you don't have tha much buying interest."
Under the Czech Republic's Securities Act, which was devised to handle the logistics of the government's massive voucher privatisation scheme, the Securities Registry (SCP) is bound by law to provide services such as moving securities to and from client accounts.
Since the SCP does not reveal any details of transactions, including prices and volumes, brokers have taken to the SCP because of its privacy and faster settlement process.
The problems have restrained the PSE which sees on average $4-$6 million of stock changing hands each day, compared with $15 million turnover in Warsaw, where the market has a capitalisation of just $3 billion.
"Unambiguously, a notable portion of foreign investors are not satisified with the current state of the Czech capital market," said Miroslav Nosal of Patria Finance.
In April, parliament approved a series of market reforms to compel companies and fund managers to be more open and accountable. A key element tackles the chronic problem of slow and irregular reporting of company earnings and actions.
The PSE has taken several steps to brings more transparency to the market, but some analysts say that the process is taking too long.
In mid-September, the Prague Stock Exchange pledged to improve the state of the market, stressing in particular the need for the early creation of an independent watchdog.
But many analysts were disappointed by the lack of strong enforcement requirements, as market supervision is still kept in the hands of a small, under-resourced Finance Ministry department.
And some question whether there is even the political will here to change the market, or if a few regulations will be enough to change the attitude of many market participants.
"The problem isn't only with market regulations. I don't feel the political will which can bring change and prevent frauds.," Markus Winkler, manager of the Discover Europe Investment Fund was quoted in the dsaily Mlada Fronta Dnes as saying on Friday.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Struggling to stay on course away from its troubled past, Trans World Airlines Inc. now must find a new chief executive to take the helm of the troubled carrier.
How quickly it can find an experienced airline executive for the job will determine whether it stays on course or runs into more financial trouble, industry analysts said.
The St. Louis-based airline said on Thursday that Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Erickson, who has headed the company for the past two years, will leave in January.
"The last thing that the company needs now is more management turmoil," said one analyst, who declined to be identified. "It doesn't have a strong or stable enough footing to deal with this kind of stuff."
Erickson's departure comes just four months after Chief Financial Officer Robert Peiser left the company. At the time, TWA said Peiser's decision to leave was over differences in management direction.
"They're going to have to regain the confidence of Wall Street," said William Fiala, who follows the airline industry for Edward D. Jones &amp; Co., which is based in TWA's hometown. "The only way they're going to do that is by coming up with a leader that's a proven turnaround (manager), or well-respected in the industry."
Erickson, who became chief executive officer in August 1994, brought the airline through its second bankruptcy reorganization and back to where it was buying new aircraft. But the turnaround is not finished, and higher fuel costs and the July 17 crash of Paris-bound Flight 800, which hurt confidence in the carrier and therefore its sales, have stalled the company's improvement.
"Erickson was the one who really steered them through the first half of the turnaround, but they still have a way to go," Fiala said.
The company on Thursday reported a $14.3 million third-quarter loss and said its yield, a measure of fares, fell in the quarter.
"I don't know specifically the reason he chose to depart now," said Don Jacobs, chairman of the TWA Master Executive Council of the Airline Pilots Associaition. "I think it's probably an impact of the third quarter financials and Flight 800."
TWA's unions have four seats on the company's board of directors and will play a part in choosing a successor for Erickson, Jacobs said, though he could not suggest possible replacements.
"We would expect that the board would replace Jeff with a top-notch airline manager," he said. "As both employees and the stockholders in the company, we will be concerned and involved in that."
Industry experts said TWA's board of directors might have become impatient with the pace of the turnaround after seeing the third-quarter results. But they also quickly defended Erickson's record at the company.
"When you see what TWA was three years ago and what it is now, it's a world of difference," said Michael Boyd, president of Aviation Systems Research Corp., a research and consulting firm  in Golden, Colo.
Calls to Erickson at TWA's offices Friday were transferred to a public relations office, which said he was unavailable for comment. TWA Chairman Thomas Meagher did not return calls.
Analysts said TWA's board would need to move quickly and that the next chief executive would need a good degree of independence from the board.
"Whatever they do to replace Erickson, they need a hands-on manager, not a messiah," Boyd said. "In a situation like this, you have to have free reign. You can't have people behind you second-guessing every one of your moves."
Boyd said several managers at United Airlines might be interested in the job. He also suggested that former Alaska Air Group Chief Executive Raymond Vecci could be a candidate.
Earlier this year, Erickson, who was criticized by families of the Flight 800 victims for the company's response to the crash, told students at Washington University in St. Louis that the aftermath of the crash was draining, said Stuart Greenbaum, dean of the university's business school.
"I can't help believing the crash just took a lot out of Jeff," said Greenbaum, who said he is a friend of Erickson's. "That was so difficult for him, as it would be for any human being, to try to represent the company to the world" after the tragedy, in which 230 died.
McDonnell Douglas Corp. Friday announced the sudden resignation of the head of its aerospace business, Herbert Lanese, sparking speculation that disagreements over cost-cutting tactics might have hastened his departure.
Lanese, who joined the aircraft and aerospace firm in 1989 as senior vice president of finance, left the firm in an apparent disagreement with President Harry Stonecipher.
"Although Herb and I were in total agreeemtn regarding business objectives and strategy, we had sharp differences involving management and leadership styles," Stonecipher said in a statement. "After two years of working together, it became obvious to me that these differences could not be reconciled."
Merrill Lynch analyst Byron Callan called Lanese's departure "a bolt out of the blue."
"Herb had been tasked with reducing costs at McDonnell Douglas at the military aircraft business," Callan said. "It may well have been (a dispute over) how do you go about doing that."
Lanese, who became president of McDonnell Douglas Aerospace in March, 1996, after serving as deputy president since July 1995, had a difficult job from the start, analysts said. His focus on cost-cutting meant he had to tackle the thorny issue of reducing employment.
"When well over 50 percent of your costs are people, cost-cutting is a euphemism for cutting people," PaineWebber analyst John Modzelewski said. "It's the hardest thing that you can do."
Job security became the crux of labor troubles at McDonnell Douglas, with a strike by the International Association of Machinists that lasted from June 5 until Sept. 11 of this year.
Cost-cutting is "where his (Lanese's) expertise lay with the company," said Mike Schoen, assistant director of business at District 837 of the Machinists union. "And we weren't ready to be cut corners on."
Slashing costs and raising capital, however, were hallmarks of Lanese's career when he was chief financial officer of McDonnell Douglas. Analysts credited him with a financial turnaround, which included raising cash and slashing debt, that led to record earnings.
"Singlehandedly, he was the person that I think was majorly responsible for the change in McDonnell Douglas," Modzelewski said.
Silicon Valley executives and venture capitalists are turning into political sharks, spending millions of dollars to defeat a California ballot measure that they claim threatens American capitalism and could send stock prices reeling.
Normally the region, which is the birthplace of such industry stalwarts as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Intel Corp., is more obsessed with Internet software tools and microchips than with politics.
But so widespread is the fear that California's Proposition 211 could make the state a haven for shareholder lawsuits that once politically neutral executives have been jolted into action -- hanging anti-211 banners on buildings and encouraging employees to vote against the initiative.
Proposition 211 is a far-reaching measure that would eliminate certain safeguards and immunity currently given corporate officers and staff members. For instance, it would hold them liable if they made projections about future results and they turned out to be wrong.
Opponents of the measure fear that corporate officers would stop making any projections about how their business was doing, making it more difficult to make investment decisions and leading to a decline in share prices.
Proponents argue it will help victims of fraud recover losses. Opponents charge it is an "insidious" bid by securities lawyers to line their own pockets.
There were signs the campaign against 211 could affect the outcome. A Los Angeles Times poll published Friday found 52 percent of likely voters now oppose it, up 10 percentage points from a similar Times poll five weeks ago.
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt has urged California voters to reject the measure, warning it would use the state's legal system to roll back the federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act passed last year.
"California state courts could become a magnet for class action suits," he wrote in a letter of opposition.
Both President Bill Clinton and Republican presidential rival Bob Dole have come out against the measure and a recent study said its passage could result in a loss of up to 1.8 million jobs and a $102 billion drop in U.S. domestic output.
The study, by trade economist Clyde Prestowitz, also projected a subsequent rise in "frivolous lawsuits" could result in as much as a 24 percent drop in stock market prices.
This, he concluded, "would far outweigh the 4 cents per dollar compensation, or less, that shareholders would receive from settlements and judgments" under the measure.
High-tech companies are considered more vulnerable to shareholder suits because their stocks typically are owned by demanding investors seeking fastest-growing companies, which can make their stock prices more volatile.
A recent survey by the American Electronics Association of its members found nearly half would consider leaving the state if 211 passes. Some economists estimated it would eliminate 150,000 jobs and cost $1.3 billion in California alone.
Even companies outside California, like International Business Machines Corp. and software giant Microsoft Corp. have opposed the measure, concerned that a single California shareholder could bring suit against them.
If it passes, high tech leaders like venture capitalist John Doerr, who is leading the $30 million-plus battle against 211, and Cypress Semiconductor Chief Executive T.J. Rodgers, have said they expect outside company directors to quit.
"If it passes, my net worth, my house, will be on the line," Rodgers said at a recent public debate on the issue here. "It's a sleazy trick," he added.
Proponents of 211, including lawyers who bring shareholder lawsuits and stand to benefit directly from it, said they drew up the measure after a business-led initiative in the spring was opposed by nearly 60 percent of California voters.
"Americans are disgusted by corporate greed," said Richard Alexander, an attorney speaking in favor of the measure recently. "People are angry about massive layoffs."
But in Northern California, where high tech businesses have thrived, executives said the proposition was more geared to forcing corporations to settle shareholder suits up front.
Boosting the pressure on General Motors Corp. for a new labor agreement, the United Auto Workers union Friday set a Sunday night deadline for a strike against the world's largest automaker.
UAW President Stephen Yokich said in a statment that union negotiators were not optimistic that a new contract deal could be reached by the deadline of 11:59 p.m. EST Sunday (0459 GMT Monday).
While he did not say if the union's 215,000 GM hourly workers would actually strike, Yokich said the UAW had notified GM that it will terminate its extended 1993 contract with the automaker if the deadline passes with no agreement. The union typically does not work without a contract.
"UAW members have been advised to continue to work unless notified by their local union," Yokich said.
"The UAW bargaining team will continue to make serious efforts to achieve a new agreement. While we are not optimistic, we remain hopeful that this can be accomplished prior to the expiration of the current contract at 11:59 p.m. on Sunday," he added.
The move comes just three days after GM settled a contentious, 20-day strike with the Canadian Auto Workers union that caused parts shortages that are still forcing the auto giant to shut down some U.S. assembly plants.
Although the UAW talks had been moving quickly before the strike in Canada, people close to the negotiations said the two sides remain at odds over the union's demand for employment guarantees and GM's desire for flexibility to shift more parts work to outside, usually non-union suppliers.
Both Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current work forces over the next three years. GM has resisted the pattern, saying it wants to exclude certain components plants from the employment guarantees.
A GM spokesman said full-scale UAW negotiations at GM's Detroit headquarters will continue throughout the weekend for the first time since the strike in Canada began on Oct. 2.
In a statement, GM chief negotiator Gerald Knechtel said, "We remain committed to entering into agreement that balances the needs of our employees and the UAW with the flexibility GM needs to continue to improve our competitiveness."
"We've had open and constructive dialogue with the UAW since the talks began and we're hopeful we can focus with the UAW on concluding these negotiations as soon as possible."
Meanwhile, GM continued to run out of Canadian-made parts at U.S. assembly plants. In Flint, Mich., local UAW officials said GM told more than 6,600 workers not to report to work at the automaker's massive Buick City complex on Monday.
The facility makes Buick LeSabre, Oldsmobile 88 and Pontiac Bonneville sedans, as well as V-6 engines and other components.
Buick City is the largest of several facilities to cut back production due to shortages of parts following the end of the Canadian Auto Workers' strike this week.
On Thursday, GM laid off about 5,000 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, assembly plant in a shutdown that will last two weeks. The plant builds the popular Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire small cars.
Also on Friday, GM notified some of the 2,926 workers at the nearby Lordstown metal stamping plant they would be idled next week. Another 474 workers at a components plant in Vandalia, Ohio, will be idled next week, GM said.
Excluding the layoffs that will start next week, GM said it had a total of 23,340 workers idled in the United States and Mexico on Friday.
GM's 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers members began returning to work on Wednesday after they ratified a new contract that puts some limits GM's ability to shift work to outside suppliers but allows the automaker to sell two contested parts plants.
Nalco Chemical Co Chairman Ted Mooney said he is comfortable with analysts' estimates for fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations of $0.50 to $0.51 per fully diluted share, up from $0.45 from continuing operations a year ago.
"We're comfortable with that," Mooney said in a telephone interview.  
Looking ahead, the water treatment and process chemicals company expects to increase earnings by a double-digit rate.
"Our overall goal is to grow double-digit, and we certainly think we can do that many more years than not," Mooney said. "Next year, we don't see as atypical as yet."
Earlier this week, Nalco reported third quarter earnings of $0.52 per fully diluted share from continuing operations, up 16 percent from $0.45 a year ago.
To increase its business, which is roughly equally divided between water treatment and process chemicals, Nalco will continue to make strategic acquisitions, Mooney said.  
Earlier today, Nalco, based in Naperville, Ill., agreed to acquire Nutmeg Technologies Inc, a Connecticut-based water treatment company with $9 million in annual sales.
"They (Nutmeg) are operating in an area that is growing rapidly and also have some very fine people," Mooney said.
Technical personnel in the water treatment business are a key asset given the range of customers served, from manufacturers to hospitals. Nalco's technology treats both water intake as well as water that is discharged.
Nalco also provides process chemicals to a variety of industries, such as paper-making.  
Nalco is also split in half between the United States and foreign markets, currently operating in about 20 countries.
With a global presence, Nalco, with about $1.4 billion in annual sales, is able to pursue opportunities wherever they arise, Mooney said. One down side, however, is that such globalization also makes it suspectible to regional economic downturns.  
For example, Nalco's European division, which accounts for 25 percent of its foreign business, faces tough economic conditions there. And as a U.S. company, Nalco's European profits suffer when converted into a stronger U.S. dollar.
"We are growing in dollar terms, if at all, very slowly in Europe right now," Mooney said.
Balancing that weakness in Europe, Nalco is growing by about double-digits in the United States, which accounts for about half the business.  
Nalco's business in the Asia/Pacific market, which accounts for 12 to 13 percent of company revenue, currently is growing at 15 to 20 percent. In Latin America, which also accounts for 12 to 13 percent of Nalco's business, growth is running at 15 to 20 percent, Mooney said.
"Wherever in the world it is, we'll go after that opportunity," Mooney said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
USAir Group Inc, determined to expand overseas, soon will be flying solo at a time when most of its competitors are entrenched in international alliances.
Industry experts said the Arlington, Va.-based airline will have a hard time finding a new partner to replace its passenger-sharing pact with British Airways Plc.
"USAir wants to duplicate something like the other major carriers have in Europe, but all the dance cards are already full," said one analyst who did not want to be identified.  
Over the past five years, cost-conscious airlines have struck marketing agreements with other carriers in order to extend their reach to new destinations that would be too expensive to serve on their own. Examples include links between Northwest Airlines Corp and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines NV and between UAL Corp and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.
On Thursday, USAir said it would terminate in March its passenger-sharing and frequent flier pact with British Airways due to the British carrier's proposed alliance with powerhouse AMR Corp.  
The move is expected to have little financial impact on USAir, which received far less revenue from the alliance than did British Airways.
Because most of the big carriers already have partners, analysts said USAir is likely to pursue international growth on its own for now.  It already is seeking the right to fly to London's coveted and restricted Heathrow Airport from several U.S. cities.
The desire for an expanded overseas role is also likely to prompt USAir to re-enter old markets, analysts said. It is best-known for its short-haul routes on the U.S. East Coast.  
"It may be that USAir may return to some of those areas," said John Steltzer, executive of airline consulting firm Worldwide Transportation Group Inc.
Although USAir has the highest cost structure of all major U.S. carriers, industry analysts said strong profit margins on long-haul flights would likely offset the expense associated with resuming service in some of those areas.
It also is likely to strike alliances with smaller European carriers that could transport passengers beyond any USAir destination.
"That would provide feed for their transatlantic operations, which they would need on that side of the ocean," said Raymond Neidl of Furman Selz.
In the longer term, however, many analysts remain convinced that USAir will need an extensive alliance or merger with another carrier.
Britain's J. Sainsbury Plc stole a march on competitors on Friday by announcing plans to become the first supermarket to launch banking services in a link with Bank of Scotland which analysts said may prove to be a money spinner.
"It could be a winner if it is done in the right way," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
Marketing director Kevin McCarten said in an interview with Reuters that he expected the banking services to turn in profits "in a relatively short space of time."
Sainsbury, second placed to Tesco in market share, said in a statement it had applied to the Bank of England for authorisation for a new bank to be owned 55 percent by the company and 45 percent by Bank of Scotland.
The venture, to be called Sainsbury's Bank, will use telebanking for a range of deposit, lending and cash management services to 12 million customers, the company said.
McCarten said the banking service would offer "great products...at better value than is currently available," but declined to comment on possible interest rates on accounts or give financial terms of the venture.
Sainsbury's Bank will kick off in 1997 with the launch of Classic and Gold Visa cards along with account and card-based services.
"It certainly shows Sainsbury is alive and kicking, which we had begun to doubt," one sector analyst said. Sainsbury, which turned in its first fall in profits for 22 years last year, was forced to launch its Reward loyalty card in June after arch-rival Tesco Plc pipped it to market leader with its ClubCard, and it has been struggling to regain the intiative.
Tesco pre-empted Reward's launch by introducing its ClubCard Plus account which allowed shoppers to build up credit balances with favourable rates of interest to be used in its stores. But Sainsbury's move "makes ClubCard Plus look a bit of a damp squib," the analyst said.
"The bank plan has certainly cheered the market up, the initial reaction is clearly positive," the sector analyst said.
Sainsbury shares closed up 10.5 pence at 360.5 pence, off a high of 363 pence while Tesco was up 2.5 pence to 324 pence, off a high of 326 pence.
"The market wanted to see them doing something and this is certainly a pleasant surprise," the analyst said.
Sainsbury chairman David Sainsbury said that Sainsbury's Bank would give customers "the reassurance of a name they know and trust, coupled with the banking expertise of the Bank of Scotland."
The move will result in "a compelling alternative to the conventional high street bank or building society for Sainsbury's customers," said Bank of Scotland chief executive Peter Burt.
Sainsbury currently has around five stores in Scotland and 367 supermarkets in the UK, along with 307 do-it-yourself outlets and 12 hypermarket SavaCentres.
It owns Shaw's in the U.S. with 105 stores and has 50 percent voting rights in Giant, which runs 169 U.S. outlets.
Bank of Scotland will benefit because it has a limited presence south of the border.
"It's a lovely distribution channel," a Bank of Scotland spokesman told Reuters, adding that the new bank would have its own identity and not carry the Bank of Scotland logo.
Analysts warned, however, that Sainsbury's Bank would have to offer attractive deals to secure customers, many of whom already have bank accounts. "It has to undercut the competition or link banking up to Reward points, a lot will depend on the marketing," the sector analyst said.
"They will have to decide to really go for it if they are going to make it profitable," he said. And analysts said the market would still look for progress in its core grocery business sales when Sainsbury reports interim results on October 30.
Analysts forecasts for half-year pre-tax profits range from 383 million pounds ($611.4 million) to 396 million pounds, compared with 450 million previously.
J. Sainsbury Plc announced plans Friday to launch a jointly owned banking service with Bank of Scotland, the first supermarket to do so in Britain's hotly competitive food retailing business.
Sainsbury said it had applied to the Bank of England for authorisation for a new bank to be owned 55 percent by the company and 45 percent by the Bank of Scotland, a banking and financial services company based in Edinburgh.
Industry analysts said the move was a bold one that could eventually prove profitable but noted that Sainsbury, Britain's largest supermarket chain in terms of sales, had its work cut out for it.
"It could be a winner if it is done in the right way," said one industry analyst who asked not to be identified.
Sainsbury has about 690 supermarkets and other outlets in Britain, including five in Scotland. Its Shaw's chain has 105 stores in the United States and it also owns a stake in Giant, with 169 U.S. outlets.
The new venture, to be called Sainsbury's Bank, will offer telebanking services for deposits, lending and cash management to a targeted 12 million customers, Sainsbury said. It will kick off next year with the launch of Classic and Gold Visa cards along with account and card-based services.
"It certainly shows Sainsbury is alive and kicking, which we had begun to doubt," one sector analyst said.
Sainsbury, which posted lower profits for the first time in 22 years last year, was forced to launch its Reward loyalty card in June after archrival Tesco Plc offered its ClubCard, which allows shoppers to build up credit balances at favourable interest rates to be used in Tesco stores.
But Sainsbury's move makes ClubCard Plus look timid, one analyst said. "The market wanted to see them doing something and this is certainly a pleasant surprise," the analyst said.
Sainsbury Chairman David Sainsbury said that Sainsbury's Bank would give customers "the reassurance of a name they know and trust, coupled with the banking expertise of the Bank of Scotland."
The move will result in "a compelling alternative ... for Sainsbury's customers," said Bank of Scotland Chief Executive Peter Burt.
Analysts warned, however, that Sainsbury's Bank would have to offer attractive deals to secure customers, many of whom already have bank accounts.
"It has to undercut the competition or link banking up to Reward points, a lot will depend on the marketing," one industry analyst said.
Sainsbury marketing director Kevin McCarten said the new service would offer "great products ... at better value than is currently available," but declined to specify interest rates on accounts or give financial terms of the venture.
Sainsbury expected the new services to turn in profits "in a relatively short space of time," he said in an interview.
One analyst noted, however, that the financial services of retailer Marks &amp; Spencer Plc, although not directly comparable, has made only a small contribution to profits although it has been running for 15 years.
"They will have to decide to really go for it if they are going to make it profitable," he said of Sainsbury.
Sainsbury shares rose 10.5 pence (17 cents) to 360.5 pence ($5.75). Tesco rose 2.5 pence (4 cents) to 324 pence ($5.17).
J. Sainsbury Plc announced plans Friday to launch a jointly owned banking service with Bank of Scotland, the first supermarket to do so in Britain's hotly competitive food retailing business.
"It could be a winner if it is done in the right way," said one industry analyst who asked not to be identified.
Sainsbury said it had applied to the Bank of England for authorisation for a new bank to be owned 55 percent by the company and 45 percent by the Bank of Scotland, based in Edinburgh.
The venture, to be called Sainsbury's Bank, will offer telebanking services for deposits, lending and cash management to a target audience of 12 million customers, Sainsbury said. It will kick off next year with the launch of Classic and Gold Visa cards along with account and card-based services.
"It certainly shows Sainsbury is alive and kicking, which we had begun to doubt," one sector analyst said.
Sainsbury, which posted lower profits for the first time in 22 years last year, was forced to launch its Reward loyalty card in June after archrival Tesco Plc offered its ClubCard, which allows shoppers to build up credit balances at favourable interest rates to be used in Tesco stores.
But Sainsbury's move makes ClubCard Plus look timid, one analyst said. "The market wanted to see them doing something and this is certainly a pleasant surprise," the analyst said.
Sainsbury Chairman David Sainsbury said that Sainsbury's Bank would give customers "the reassurance of a name they know and trust, coupled with the banking expertise of the Bank of Scotland."
The move will result in "a compelling alternative ... for Sainsbury's customers," said Bank of Scotland Chief Executive Peter Burt.
Analysts warned, however, that Sainsbury's Bank would have to offer attractive deals to secure customers, many of whom already have bank accounts.
"It has to undercut the competition or link banking up to Reward points, a lot will depend on the marketing," one industry analyst said.
Another warned that the financial services of retailer Marks &amp; Spencer, although not directly comparable, made only a small contribution to profits even though it had been running for 15 years.
"They will have to decide to really go for it if they are going to make it profitable," he said.
Analysts said the market would still look for progress in its core grocery business sales when Sainsbury reports interim results on Oct. 30.
Sainsbury shares rose 10.5 pence (17 cents) to 360.5 pence ($5.75). Tesco rose 2.5 pence (4 cents) to 324 pence ($5.17).
British supermarket retailer J. Sainsbury Plc expects its new banking venture to turn in profits "in a relatively short period of time," marketing director Kevin McCarten told Reuters in an interview.
"We see this as a commercial venture...it is not a huge sink of money," he said.
Sainsbury announced on Friday that it had applied for authorisation from the Bank of England to set up Sainsbury's Bank in which it would have 55 percent with Bank of Scotland taking 45 percent.  
He said the banking service would offer "great products...at better value than is currently available," but declined to comment on possible interest rates on accounts.
Sainsbury will draw on its database of customers signed up to its Reward loyalty card and other store cards for direct marketing of the banking facilities, McCarten said, but added that it was not planning to limit access to these customers.
"Our objective is to build (the business) across the UK," he said.  
Sainsbury currently has about five stores in Scotland, while Bank of Scotland will benefit because it has a limited presence south of the border.
"It's a lovely distribution channel," a Bank of Scotland spokesman told Reuters, adding that the new bank would have its own identity and would not carry the Bank of Scotland logo.
McCarten said there would not initially be banking counters in stores but added it could not be ruled out for the future.  
No decision has yet been reached on use of cash dispensers, the Bank of Scotland spokesman said, although he ruled out stand-alone machines.
McCarten said the banking facilities would be "completely separate" from its Reward loyalty card other than using the database.
He added that the aim was to encourage customers to see banking as part of Sainsbury's supermarket offer, which should have a knock-on effect for the stores.
"If you can increase customer spend a little, you grow your business," McCarten said.  
-- London Newsroom +44 171 5427717
Britain's J. Sainsbury Plc stole a march on competitors on Friday by becoming the first supermarket to launch banking services in a link with Bank of Scotland, which analysts said may prove to be a money spinner.
"It could be a winner if it is done in the right way," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
Sainsbury said in a statement it had applied to the Bank of England for authorisation for a new bank to be owned 55 percent by the company and 45 percent by Bank of Scotland.
The venture, to be called Sainsbury's Bank, will use telebanking for a range of deposit, lending and cash management services to 12 million customers, the company said.
It will kick off in 1997 with the launch of Classic and Gold Visa cards along with account and card-based services.
"It certainly shows Sainsbury is alive and kicking, which we had begun to doubt," one sector analyst said.
Sainsbury, which turned in its first fall in profits for 22 years last year, was forced to launch its Reward loyalty card in June after arch-rival Tesco Plc pipped it to market leader with its ClubCard, and it has been struggling to regain the intiative.
Tesco pre-empted Reward's launch by introducing its ClubCard Plus account which allowed shoppers to build up credit balances with favourable rates of interest to be used in its stores.
But Sainsbury's move "makes ClubCard Plus look a bit of a damp squib," the analyst said.
"The bank plan has certainly cheered the market up, the initial reaction is clearly positive," the sector analyst said.
Sainsbury shares closed up 10.5 pence at 360.5 pence, off a high of 363 pence while Tesco was up 2.5 pence to 324 pence, off a high of 326 pence.
"The market wanted to see them doing something and this is certainly a pleasant surprise," the analyst said.
Sainsbury chairman David Sainsbury said that Sainsbury's Bank would give customers "the reassurance of a name they know and trust, coupled with the banking expertise of the Bank of Scotland."
The move will result in "a compelling alternative to the conventional high street bank or building society for Sainsbury's customers," said Bank of Scotland chief executive Peter Burt.
Analysts warned, however, that Sainsbury's Bank would have to offer attractive deals to secure customers, many of whom already have bank accounts.
"It has to undercut the competition or link banking up to Reward points, a lot will depend on the marketing," the sector analyst said.
One analyst warned that the financial services of retailer Marks &amp; Spencer, although not directly comparable, made only a small contribution to profits even though it had been running for 15 years.
"They will have to decide to really go for it if they are going to make it profitable," he said.
And analysts said the market would still look for progress in its core grocery business sales when Sainsbury reports interim results on October 30.
Analysts forecasts for half-year pre-tax profits range from 383 million pounds ($611.4 million) to 396 million pounds, compared with 450 million previously.
($1=.6264 Pound)
Electricity stocks crackled higher on Friday as rumours swirled around the market of a U.S. buyer for one of five remaining regional utilities and analysts said the forthcoming results season could provide a spur for action.
"There is going to be a big focus on the ability of these companies to hand out more cash...if the results season is not going to get it going, then nothing will," said Chris Perry, analyst at Charterhouse Tilney.
Electricity sector companies kick off their half year results season towards the end of November.
Leading the sector higher on Friday was East Midlands Electricity, after a report in the Daily Mail newspaper that a bid might emerge from Houston Industries of the United States at around 750 pence a share.
Houston, tipped to buy one of the five remaining regional electricity companies (Recs) earlier this year, had been thought to have given up on the idea in August when it bought U.S. gas utility NorAm Energy for $3.8 billion.
East Midlands shot up to a high of 565 pence but eased back to close at 562, up 44 pence.
"At the time of its last results, the company effectively indicated its surprise that it hadn't been taken over. Their shares had fallen back a long way and perhaps it's no surprise that bid rumours are re-emerging," Perry said.
Other power utilities which remain independent also climbed, with Yorkshire Electricity up 28 pence to 742 pence and Southern Electric adding 13.5 pence to 631 pence.
Northern Electric, which survived a takeover bid from Trafalgar House last year, was up 29 pence to 523 pence and London Electricity, which supplies the capital with power, jumped 18.5 pence to 585 pence.
"East Midlands is the one most likely to face a bid, it is smaller than others and more purely a distribution company," Nigel Hawkins at brokers Yamaichi said.
A report in the Daily Telegraph newspaper also suggested that U.S. utility Duke Power might be circling the sector but no comment was available from either U.S. company.
Analysts said U.S. companies might not be the only ones interested in the sector, which has seen seven of the 12 Recs created at privatisation in 1990 fall prey to takeover bids.
The domestic supply business is to be opened to competition in 1998 and a range of companies from oil producers to supermarkets have already indicated an interest.
Other potential interest could come from water companies, analysts said, especially following Britain's decision on Friday to block planned bids for South West Water from Severn Trent and Wessex Water.
"You've got two disappointed companies there," said Marshall Whiting of Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull.
Analysts said Severn Trent could decide to use its resources to make a share buyback or a special dividend payout.
But Wessex Water may be enticed to link up with Southern Electric, analysts said, as multi-utilities have been approved.
Welsh Water took over Swalec to form Hyder while United Utilities combined North West Water and Norweb.
"The idea of multi-utilities is gaining ground," Whiting said.
British tobacco and insurance conglomerate B.A.T Industries can expect more tough questions about U.S. litigation when it reports third quarter results on Wednesday as scientific evidence continues to mount that smoking and lung cancer are linked.
"It should be another set of solid results but they are nowadays rather secondary to litigation developments which are critical to the company's future growth prospects," said Charles Pick, analyst at Panmure Gordon.
B.A.T shares appear increasingly vulnerable to this issue.  
The growing pace of litigation claims against B.A.T's U.S. tobacco subsidiary Brown &amp; Williamson, and the U.S. industry in general, recently led credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's to revise down its outlook for the company to negative.
Meanwhile, analysts expect B.A.T's pretax profits this quarter to range from 650 to 715 million stg, slightly firmer than the 659 million stg last time.
No exceptional items are anticipated and the company pays a dividend only at the half- and full-year stage.
Paradoxically, underlying strength and growth in tobacco is likely to offset a mixed performance from financial services.  
While the group's main life and pension firms Allied Dunbar, Eagle Star overseas and Farmers should report higher sales, Eagle Star's general insurance business is widely forecast to suffer further from a cyclical downturn.
Analysts expect B.A.T's tobacco sales to emerging markets to remain strong, with continued growth in Asia.
Pretax profits for the nine month period, estimated to top the 2.0 billion stg mark, will include 69 million of exceptional gains on sale of two subsidiary businesses in the first half.
Further ahead, a consensus forecast for 1996 full-year earnings per share is 51.10p, rising to 53.40p for 1997.  
However, despite the prospect of firmer earnings and a strong performance by the London stock market in the first 10 months of ths year, B.A.T shares have generally weakened.
They have fallen from a high of 585p on February 2 to 434p on Friday, shedding nearly four billion pounds from the company's total stockmarket value along the way.
The main damage has been done by constant pressure on both B.A.T and its big U.S. rival Philip Morris from a stream of upsets and shifts in the progress of U.S. litigation.
The trend has led some of its big UK shareholders to call for a demerger of B.A.T's two component businesses.  
Analysts are sceptical on the whole about the possibility of demerger, despite the tactic's popularity among other diversified groups with tobacco interests.
"I don't think a demerger is legally possible and I don't think management see it as in the group's interest. In fact it only makes sense to liley-livered UK institutions who are obssessed with the U.S. tobacco litigiation," said Tom Bennet, analyst at Paribas.
Some tobacco litigants also oppose demergers, claiming they would amount to "false conveyance" on the tobacco industry's ability to pay up if it were to lose a major court battle.  
Proponents, on the other hand, argue a demerger would separate U.S. tobacco liabilities and enable the company to put its effort into selling cigarettes in Asia and other emerging markets.
The successful spin-off of Imperial Tobacco from the Hanson group has added more fuel to their cause, along with American Brands Inc's plan to spin off its UK-based Gallaher tobacco operations some time next year.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Anti-government protests swept across Canada's biggest city Friday as demonstrators in Toronto shut down the transit system, disrupted businesses and tried to break into the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Thousands of union workers, civil servants and other citizens descended on government offices, transit stations and factories across the city, organisers said.
Over 1 million commuters stayed at home, walked, drove or cycled to work after the city's subway and bus services were shutdown, officials estimated. City officials said transit services would resume early Saturday.
But picketers did not disrupt commuter trains from Toronto's bedroom communities or interrupt service at Pearson Airport, the country's busiest. Instead of the traffic jams on the city expressways which had been expected, "It was like a Sunday afternoon," one city official said.
Toronto police said there were no major acts of violence, though a few people were arrested, mostly for misconduct.
The so-called Days of Protest was organised by labour unions to protest deep budget cuts by Ontario's Conservative government affecting many of this city of 2.2 million people.
Some critics said the protest did not succeed.
"Today's protest was a flop. Yes. They inconvenienced a lot of people, but they failed to shut down the city," said Colin Brown of Ontarians for Responsible Government, a right-wing lobby group.
"Hundreds of thousands of people didn't come to work and that is what counts," said Aleda O'Connor, a spokeswoman for the organisers.
Ironically, the labour unrest came after Fortune magazine called Toronto the city with the world's best quality of life.
Most of the protests were peaceful, but hundreds of demonstrators tried to smash into the Toronto Stock Exchange, a symbol of the business community that has supported the government's tough fiscal policies.
Protesters chanted, "Shut it down, shut it down," as they pounded on the glass doors of Canada's biggest stock market. One man wearing a mask and combat fatigues was seen hurling himself against the doors.
Riot police were moved into the vicinity of stock exchange, but did not intervene. Rally organisers later moved the raucous group away from the doors of the exchange.
"We've come to the place where the real power is ... They get their power and strength from inside this building," Jim Stanford, an economist for the Canadian Auto Workers, told hundreds of protesters outside the exchange.
In the days leading up to the protest, a siege mentality gripped Toronto's Bay Street, the heart of Canada's financial community.
At least one brokerage firm flew traders to its offices in New York and Montreal, while other brokers slept in hotel rooms or in their offices overnight.
Other companies, including the Globe and Mail newspaper, hired boats to ferry employees across Lake Ontario from nearby communities.
The demonstrators expressed fury at Ontario Premier Mike Harris' plans to cut spending by C$8 billion ($5.9 billion) to wipe out a big budget deficit by the turn of the century.
Since coming to power in 1995 on the promise of a right-wing revolution in Canada's most populous province, the Conservatives have revamped labour laws, slashed welfare payments and required recipients to work, and announced plans to close hospitals and cut education budgets.
"These cuts that Harris made are hurting the workers. This is part of the polarisation that is happening in Ontario. The anger is going to grow and grow," Syd Ryan, president of the Ontario division of the Canadian Union of Public Employees, told picketers outside a government building.
Harris, who has been dubbed "Newt of the North" in reference to Republican U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, has vowed the protests will not stall his "Common Sense Revolution."
"Will they discourage us from creating more jobs? No. Discourage us from workfare? No. That's what we were elected to do and I don't expect that most of the public want us to change from that agenda," Harris told reporters.
The Conservatives, who hold their annual convention in Toronto this weekend, have seen their popularity hold at about 50 percent in recent opinion polls.
Many commuters took the delays in stride.
"I see the protesters have a point, but I think it's going to inconvenience a lot of people who don't have any other choice," said John Ivarey.
Police said one man was charged with a weapons offence after allegedly threatening picketers with a baseball bat and five protesters were charged with public mischief.
Several major manufacturers cancelled day shifts. De Havilland Inc., a unit of transportation firm Bombardier Inc., said 6,200 employees at its Toronto aircraft plant would be off the job Friday.
Other companies that closed Toronto operations included school bus operator Laidlaw Transit Inc., auto parts firm A.G. Simpson Co. Ltd., and candy maker Nestle Canada Inc.
The Prague Stock Exchange suffered one of its biggest one-day falls on Friday as foreign interest waned because of a lack of market transparency.
Four of the PSE's five largest issues fell sharply in active trading, pulling the Reuters RPIX index down nearly three percent to 1,052.
Long-criticised for its lack of transparency and regulation, analysts say Friday's loss was yet another sign that investors, especially foreigners, are pulling out of the market having grown tired of failed promises of reform.
"There's just a total lack of interest in this market," said Jan Sykora of Wood and Company.
"Fundamentally, companies look pretty cheap, but the lack of foreign interest and Czechs fearing the possibility of a devaluation and looking abroad (mean) you don't have that much buying interest."
Under the Czech Republic's Securities Act, which was devised to handle the logistics of the government's massive voucher privatisation scheme, the Securities Registry (SCP) is bound by law to provide services such as moving securities to and from client accounts.
Since the SCP does not reveal any details of transactions, including prices and volumes, brokers have taken to the SCP because of its privacy and faster settlement process.
The problems have restrained the PSE which sees on average $4-$6 million of stock changing hands each day, compared with $15 million turnover in Warsaw, where the market has a capitalisation of just $3 billion.
"Unambiguously, a notable portion of foreign investors are not satisified with the current state of the Czech capital market," said Miroslav Nosal of Patria Finance.
In April, parliament approved a series of market reforms to compel companies and fund managers to be more open and accountable. A key element tackles the chronic problem of slow and irregular reporting of company earnings and actions.
The PSE has taken several steps to brings more transparency to the market, but some analysts say that the process is taking too long.
In mid-September, the Prague Stock Exchange pledged to improve the state of the market, stressing in particular the need for the early creation of an independent watchdog.
But many analysts were disappointed by the lack of strong enforcement requirements, as market supervision is still kept in the hands of a small, under-resourced Finance Ministry department.
And some question whether there is even the political will here to change the market, or if a few regulations will be enough to change the attitude of many market participants.
"The problem isn't only with market regulations. I don't feel the political will which can bring change and prevent frauds.," Markus Winkler, manager of the Discover Europe Investment Fund was quoted in the daily Mlada Fronta Dnes as saying on Friday.
Colombian truckers began climbing back behind the wheel early on Friday after their leaders signed a deal with the government to end their crippling 11-day old strike.
Colombian Truck Drivers' Association (ACC) head Javier Suarez said the accord granted an immediate 16 percent raise in cargo freight rates with the promise of another inflation-linked increase at the start of next year -- short of the instant 30 percent hike originally demanded.
The breakthrough in talks between the independent association, the Transport and Interior Ministries and private transport companies came late on Thursday, a day after Interior Minister Horacio Serpa threatened to use police and the military to help smash the nationwide strike by clearing road blocks and forcing truckers back to work.
"This is a partial solution to our problems but I think it will be good for our members. This doesn't mean truckers will now be making any profits but at least we won't be operating at a loss like at present," Suarez told Reuters in a telephone interview. "We have also agreed to set up a joint committee that will look at future transport policies."
Key sectors of the economy, primarily those linked to import and export, had issued stiff criticism of the transport paralysis earlier in the day but heaved a collective sigh of relief with news of the agreement.
But the lifting of the strike seems unlikely to offer an instant fix for the crisis-hit coffee sector, which has seen 250,000 60-kg sacks of coffee -- a quarter of that promised for October delivery -- delayed by the truckers' action.
Earlier in the week, private coffee exporters said many would be forced to default on this month's delivery contracts even if the stoppage ended before the weekend because of the backlog of coffee in port and in warehouses.
In addition to the raise in freight cargo rates, a joint committee of truckers, industry representatives and Transport Ministry officials will be created to look at other concerns highlighted by the drivers' association, Transport Minister Carlos Hernan Lopez said.
These include the cost of highway tolls, the price of operating licenses and associated taxes and maximum load restrictions on cargoes.
Part of Thursday night's agreement means the Transport Ministry will send a communique to transport companies ordering them to lift unilateral bans on contracting the services of drivers operating trucks more than 11 years old where these are currently in force.
Suarez said he did not think the deal hammered out would have an impact on inflation, already running above the 18 percent originally targetted at this point in the year by the government.
"Hopefully we will not see any gains in inflation or the cost of this accord being passed on to the consumers because the intermediaries, the transport companies, will be absorbing the cost of it by taking a cut in their profit margins," he said.
The overall cost of the strike is difficult to calculate but certainly runs into many million dollars. Colombia's main Pacific coast port, Buenaventura, estimated its losses at more than $20 million a day because no cargo was coming in or out.
Leading Chinese activist Wang Dan will go on trial on Wednesday, charged with the capital crime of plotting to overthrow the government, a family member said.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court had told Wang's family that his trial would begin on Wednesday morning, his mother Wang Lingyun said by telephone on Friday.
Court officials could not be reached for comment.
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, said she would be in court to help defend her son against some of the charges.
Wang's family earlier found a lawyer willing to defend the former student leader on most of the charges after being given just one day in which to do so.
"As for family members, only Wang Dan's father and his sister will be able to attend," she said, adding she hoped the court would judge her son based on the facts of the case.
"I'm hoping the trial outcome will go according to the facts and the law, and that Wang Dan will be found not guilty," she said. "We'll have to see at the end."
She said she was doubtful court officials would let her talk to her son before the trial.
"I don't think they'll make such arrangements," she said, adding that court officials had given her no further details about the trial.
Court officials have confirmed that Wang, who vanished into detention in May 1995, has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government -- a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death and a minimum of 10 years in prison.
The court has not given further details of the trial but one official has said that Wang could appeal to the Higher People's Court if convicted.
Wang's court appearance would likely be held out of the public eye, as was last year's trial of Wei Jingsheng, the father of China's democracy movement, a political activist said.
In December Wei was sentenced to 14 years in prison for subversion and funding democracy activists.
The court is widely expected to fill the limited number of courtroom seats at Wang's trial with carefully selected people to keep away foreign reporters and fellow dissidents.
Dissidents and foreign reporters were barred from Wei's trial but the cases of both Wei and Wang have drawn worldwide attention and are regularly raised by visiting western politicians.
Wang, 26, has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
Wang Lingyun has said the dissident has been very calm and was mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, though she has said his health has deteriorated during his detention.
Wang Dan had been active after his parole in 1993, defying persistent police surveillance to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has in recent months cracked down on its tiny band of remaining dissidents who have not yet fled into exile or been imprisoned.
All three airlines flying directly between Hong Kong and London said they can start to use a new, short cut to Europe across China from this weekend with the start of winter timetables on Sunbday October 27.
This means more cargo and less fuel can be carried along with a cut in passenger journey times of up to an hour, industry sources said.
Cathay Pacific Airways, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic all say they can begin to utilise the new northern route over China instead of the traditional longer southerly route over Thailand and India in their winter schedules. The short cut was agreed during recent talks between the British and Chinese governments, they say.
A Cathay Pacific spokesman said up to an hour can be cut off the flying time for its Boeing 747-400 aircraft on some European routes which will also have the ability to carry an additional four tonnes of cargo. BA can carry an extra 70 tonnes of air cargo a week if its twice weekly 747-400 aircraft utilise the new routing, its Hong Kong based spokesman said.
A spokesman for Virgin Atlantic said the new routing will enable its Airbus A340 aircraft to carry an extra six tonnes of freight westbound and two tonnes eastbound and save around 50,000 pounds of fuel.
Aviation analysts say the new routing offers significant cost saving advantages and allows airlines to carry full cargo loads all year round because strong headwinds during the summer restricts cargo payload.
But they say it is not all good news because the airlines haven't been granted permission for all flights.
"It is fantastic news for the airlines and very influential on the bottom line but realistically Cathay can't utilise the new routes on all flights because it has not been given a full quota and neither have the others," Peter Negline, Vice President and senior research analyst of Asia Pacific equity research at Salomon Brothers Hong Kong Limited told Reuters in an interview.
A Cathay Pacific spokesman said it will have the most access to the number of flights that can use the new routing. Other European services to Paris, Amsterdam and Frankfurt will also be able to benefit as well as London bound ones, he added.
Curfews at both Heathrow and Kai Tak airports will also cause scheduling difficulties until Hong Kong's new, around the clock airport at Chek Lap Kok is due to open in 18 months time, analysts say.
"Aircraft need to leave Hong Kong before the 11.30 pm local (16.30 GMT) curfew starts but the new routing could mean arrival at Heathrow at round 04.30 GMT which is two hours before the end of their curfew so the new routing doesn't offer a lot there,"Negline said.
"You can also see a further deterioration in cargo yields because the airlines are getting extra capacity for next to nothing," Negline added.
Negline said the airlines will also benefit from better aircraft and crew utilisation; the aircraft will be able to fly extra sectors and its crew who fly for less hours can be redeployed on other services.
Declan Magee, a Hong Kong based airline analyst for regional stockbrokers and investment bankers HG Asia also said the new routing will obviously benefit aircraft utilisation and fuel efficiency.
"Yes shorter routes will save money but if all three airlines are allowed to do the same thing that rules out competitive advantage. If only one airline could use the new route then it would be different but the consumer will feel the benefit.
Magee said the Hong Kong to London route is Cathay's fourth largest passenger revenue generating route of around HK$1.4 billion a year.
"It is a relatively important route but even if they can save four or five per cent on this route compared to Cathay's total turnover of around HK$30 billion a year.it's not that much. Yes, it's a useful way in which Cathay can offset some of the negatives it is facing in terms of yield decline," Magee said.
Analysts reckon the airlines can save around 10 tons of fuel per flight but that may be offset by expected higher overfly fees set by the Chinese who are aware of how much the airlines can save.
Analysts say the airlines need all the help they can get by utilising shorter routes and using new technology such as FANS - Future Air Navigation System which allows aircraft more direct routing. Because of successful negotiations earlier, Swissair and Lufthansa have been able to fly the shorter route over China to Europe for the past two years. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542-7706 Fax+44 171 542-5017
China has begun a national drive to test all blood products since the discovery of HIV contamination earlier this year, a health official said on Friday.
"We have requested all local health authorities to inspect blood products and report the results to us," said an official at the Ministry of Public Health.
The official, who declined to be named, said the testing followed the discovery in April of some samples of a HIV contaminated product manufactured and sold in the southern province of Guangdong.
The product was known as "Wolongsong" brand blood albumin, a protein.
HIV -- Human Immunodeficiency Virus -- is the virus that can lead to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).
"Following the incident we instituted a national inspection of blood products," the official told Reuters.
Asked how the tainted product had been uncovered, she said: "I can't tell you that. This is a very sensitive question."
Results of the tests from several provinces had been turned over to central authorities, she said without giving any further details.
An official at the Foreign Ministry said public health authorities in Guangdong had called for government agencies around the country to stop the sale and use of the 50- millilitre "Wolongsong" albumin.
Guangdong health officials, contacted by telephone, declined to give any information on the manufacturer or say how much of the product had been on the market when the action was taken.
They also declined to say how the item became contaminated, what conditions it was used to treat or how serious the risk was to people who used the product.
Officials in Beijing said that an order had been sent to have the Wolongsong product destroyed.
Official figures show China has 4,305 reported HIV cases and the total is expected to reach 5,000 by the end of this year.
Chinese officials quote health experts as saying they believe the actual number is anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000, as many cases go unreported.
A total of 131 people have been infected with AIDS in China, according to the official media.
China has been grappling with growing drug use and prostitution and experts warn these two problems could increase the number of AIDS cases across the country.
After months of denying that a $500 Internet appliance would pose a threat to its industry dominance, Microsoft Corp. plans to announce a new push for inexpensive, easy-to-use personal computers.
Microsoft is working with Intel Corp. and major compouter manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Compaq Computer Corp. on the intiative and will announce details at a conference Monday, said a spokesman for the software giant, confirming a published report.
The announcement will come one day before the widely anticipated unveiling of an $800 device from Microsoft rival Sun Microsystems Inc.
The Sun product is among the first of an expected flurry of appliance-like devices dubbed network computers being positioned as Internet-friendly alternatives to PCs based on the "Wintel" standard of Microsoft Windows and Intel processors.
While Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates and other executives have downplayed the threat from network computers, they have been scrambling to come up with ways to make personal computers easier to use for home consumers and cheaper to maintain for businesses.
"They and Intel have certainly heard the network computer mantra and have discovered a new religion," said Rob Enderle, an industry analyst with Giga Information Group.
"The threat is very real," he said. "Particularly for the (corporate) community, the concern surrounding the cost of managing multiple Wintel systems has been driving them to consider other alternatives."
At the same time personal computer penetration into the home appears to be hitting a plateau far short of other mass-market electronic devices.
In a report early this year that set off alarm bells throughout the industry, Dataquest forecast sharply slowing growth. The research group predicted PCs would be in 38 percent of U.S. homes by 1999, compared with 29 percent last year.
But since Oracle Corp. Chairman Larry Ellison and other executives began publicizing the network computer a little over a year ago, Microsoft officials routinely have minimized its importance.
"We dont think it's likely that Internet appliances, network computers or whatever you call them are going to displace the PC anytime soon," Gates told a Harvard University audience in May.
At the same time Microsoft has been stepping up efforts to make the PC easier to use, acknowledging the machines are dauntingly complex for many consumers.
In April Gates unveiled a set of technologies for what Microsoft called the "Simply Interactive PC," which he said would make the personal computer "as easy and convenient to use as other home appliances."
Monday's announcement apparently will go further to bring consumers lower prices, which are being made possible by falling prices of memory and other components.
"They're validating the proposition we've been taking to the market for the last year," said Jon Kannegaard, vice president of software products for Sun's JavaSoft unit.
Jesse Berst, executive editor of Windows Watcher, an industry newsletter, agreed that Microsoft was late to acknowledge the importance of network computers.
"They're awful late to respond to what has been a very, very strong message from customers," he said.
"If they had been doing what they should have been doing, which is really driving down prices aggressively, they wouldn't have been in the position where someone has the opportunity to come and take their franchise away."
Freed from its slow-growing data storage and imaging businesses, Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co. Friday reported a 16 percent jump in earnings for the third quarter.
The St. Paul, Minn.-based manufacturing giant -- sometimes seen as a mirror of the U.S. economy -- said net profits rose to $398 million, or 95 cents a share, in the quarter, from $344 million, or 82 cents a share, in the 1995 period. The year-ago quarter included earnings of $5 million, or 1 cent a share, from discontined operations.
Sales grew 7 percent to $3.62 billion from $3.37 billion.
The results surpassed analysts' average forecasts of 93 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
3M's stock jumped $2 to $73.25, helping to boost the Dow Jones industrial average, of which is it is a component.
"It's been a long time since 3M beat any kind of estimate," said PNC Institutional Investment Services analyst John Franck. "A lot of people were questioning whether this company could grow again."
3M served notice that it can grow with third-quarter sales up 7.5 percent and profits up 17.4 percent, analysts said.
"Now that they've spun off Imation, which was taking up too much of their resources and adding to earnings volatility, this is the 3M that most people expect when they invest in it," said Crowell Weedon analyst Douglas Christopher.
On July 1, 3M's data storage and imaging businesses began operations as an independent company, Imation Corp. The third quarter was 3M's first since the spinoff.
"They're not held back anymore by that business that's now called Imation," said Merrill Lynch analyst Robert Curran.
3M said it expected solid growth again in the fourth quarter.
If it can deliver successive quarters of big gains, the company's stock could move out of the realm of value stock funds and draw the attention again of growth stock investors, analysts said.
"3M is a little different from most companies ... They're PhD oriented so there's a lot of intellectual types up there, but they're building a powerhouse," said Franck.
3M makes thousands of products -- from Scotch tape, Post-it notes and air filters to diaper closures, flexible computer circuits and kitchen sponges.
"It can be said that their domestic business is something of an indicator of the economy as a whole because it's so diverse," said Merrill Lynch's Curran.
That portrayal is somewhat less accurate since the Imation spin-off, since key sectors of the economy are now absent from 3M's product line and more than half its business is outside the United States.
Still, said Franck, "You can probably take U.S. GDP (gross domestic product), multiply it by two and factor in whatever you want for inflation and you've basically got their sales growth rate ... If the economy is doing well, they do well."
The company's units in Japan, elsewhere in Asia, Latin America and Canada posted double-digit volume increases in the quarter while unit sales in Europe grew 7 percent, despite sluggish economies in many major European countries.
For the nine months, net income grew 6 percent to $1.14 billion, or $2.73 a share, as sales rose 4 percent to $10.61 billion.
Kellogg Co. on Friday reported a drop of more than 30 percent in its third quarter profits as its cereal volume dropped in an intensely competitive market.
Kellogg, which makes Corn Flakes, Frosted Flakes, Rice Krispies, Fruit Loops and Special-K, is fighting back, launching marketing plans for the fourth quarter that are aimed at boosting its sales.
"We'll be taking what we believe are appropriate actions," Kellogg spokesman Richard Lovell said.
The company, the world's biggest maker of ready-to-eat breakfast cereals, said its net income for the third quarter fell to $159.5 million, including a $21.3 million charge, from $230 million a year ago. On a per share basis, Kellogg's earnings dropped 29 percent to 75 cents, with fewer shares outstanding, from $1.05 last year.
Kellogg said its overall sales slipped 9 percent to $1.68 billion from $1.84 billion as continued weak prices for breakfast cereals offset a 1 percent gain in worldwide sales volume.
"As previously forecast, our third quarter performance was influenced significantly by competitive conditions in the U.S. cereal category," Kellogg Chairman Arnold Langbo said in a statement.
Analysts estimate that Kellogg's domestic cereal sales volume fell 9 percent to 10 percent in the third quarter.
"We can't detail it. It was a challenging quarter in the U.S. and our volume was down," Lovell added.
Kellogg said its fourth quarter 1996 earnings likely will show a slight rise from the 77 cents it earned a year ago. First quarter 1997 earnings, however, may not match the 99 cents earned in the 1996 period.
"It's a challenging comparison," Lovell said.
Kellogg's stock fell on concern over U.S. cereal sales volume and the outlook for earnings, dropping $1 at $64.50 a share, on the New York Stock Exchange. Earlier, it set a new 52-week low of $64.125.
Kellogg said the U.S. cereal market overall was sluggish, with sales growing about 1.5 percent, measuring grocery stores, mass merchandisers and all other outlets.
Looking ahead, Kellogg refused to outline what promotional programmes it was planning for the fourth quarter.
Analysts said they did not expect the Battle Creek, Mich.-based cereal giant to return to deep-discount coupons or buy-one, get-one-free promotional giveaways.
"It's sort of left to speculation what they're going to do," SBC Warburg analyst Chris Jakubik said.
"There is no indication that, at this time, they have shifted from their long-term strategic goal, which is to reduce inefficient promotions," added BT Securities analyst John O'Neil.
Kellogg reduced prices on about two-thirds of its breakfast cereals in June. Other major manufacturers also cut prices this year as they battled for market share and tried to jump-start consumer purchases.
But those price cuts alone apparently were not enough to jump-start consumer purchases, according to Smith Barney analyst David Rabinowitz.
"The message there is that prices have to come down further," Rabinowitz said.
According to Information Resources data, U.S. ready-to-eat cereal sales in grocery stores fell 1.6 percent to 2.6 billion pounds for the 52 weeks ended Aug. 11, according to the most recent data available, compared with a year earlier.
Kellogg's sales volume declined in that period by 4.1 percent to 881.3 million pounds for a market share of about 34.4 percent, Information Resources said.
Freed from its slow-growing data storage and imaging businesses, Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co showed on Friday it can excite Wall Street.
The St. Paul, Minn.-based manufacturing giant -- sometimes seen as a mirror of the U.S. economy -- posted strong third quarter sales and earnings growth versus year-ago results.
Shares in 3M jumped 2-1/8 to 73-3/8 on the strength of an earnings report that exceeded analysts' estimates. "It's been a long time since 3M beat any kind of estimate," said PNC Institutional Investment Services analyst John Franck.  
"A lot of people were questioning whether this company could grow again," Franck said.
3M served notice that it can with third-quarter sales up 7.5 percent and profits up 17.4 percent, analysts said.
"Now that they've spun off Imation, which was taking up too much of their resources and adding to earnings volatility, this is the 3M that most people expect when they invest in it," said Crowell Weedon analyst Douglas Christopher.
On July 1, 3M's data storage and imaging businesses began operations as an independent company, Imation Corp. The quarter just ended is 3M's first since the spinoff.  
"They're not held back anymore by that business that's now called Imation," said Merrill Lynch analyst Robert Curran.
After reporting third-quarter profits of $398 million, or $0.95 per share, on sales of $3.62 billion, 3M said it expects solid growth again in the fourth quarter.
If it can deliver successive quarters of big gains, 3M could move out of the realm of value stock funds and draw the attention again of growth stock investors, analysts said.
"3M is a little different from most companies ... They're PhD oriented so there's a lot of intellectual types up there, but they're building a powerhouse," Franck said.  
3M makes thousands of products -- from Scotch tape, Post-it notes and air filters to diaper closures, flexible computer circuits and kitchen sponges.
"It can be said that their domestic business is something of an indicator of the economy as a whole because it's so diverse," Curran said.
That is less true since the Imation spin-off. There are key sectors of the U.S. economy absent from 3M's product line. And more than half its business is outside the United States.
Still, said Franck, "You can probably take U.S. GDP (gross domestic product), multiply it by two and factor in whatever you want for inflation and you've basically got their sales growth rate ... If the economy is doing well, they do well."
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Facing declining U.S. cereal volumes in an intensely competitive market, Kellogg Co said it is launching promotional programs to boost its sales.
"We'll be taking what we believe are appropriate actions," Kellogg spokesman Richard Lovell said Friday.
Kellogg refused to outline what those programs might include. Analysts said they don't expect the cereal giant to return to deep-discount coupons or buy-one, get-one-free promotional giveaways.  
"It's sort of left to speculation what they're going to do," SBC Warburg analyst Chris Jakubik said.
"There is no indication that, at this time, they have shifted from their long-term strategic goal, which is to reduce inefficient promotions," added BT Securities analyst John O'Neil.
Whatever form the marketing actions take -- perhaps offering additional modest coupons in Sunday newspaper supplements or some form of price promotion -- the programs will be launched in the current fourth quarter.  
Kellogg, like other major cereal makers, cut cereal prices earlier this year in an effort to attract consumers back to the cereal aisle.
But those price cuts alone apparently were not enough to jump-start consumer purchases, according to Smith Barney analyst David Rabinowitz.
"The message there is that prices have to come down further," Rabinowitz added.
The drop in U.S. cereal sales contributed to a decline in third quarter operating earnings of $0.85 a share, before a $0.10 charge, compared with $1.05 last year.  
Kellogg's decision to launch promotions follows a decline in its third quarter U.S. cereal sales volume, which analysts estimate at nine to 10 percent.
"We can't detail it. It was a challenging quarter in the U.S. and our volume was down," Lovell said.
Kellogg's sales volume declined due to intense competition in the United States, as other producers continued coupons and other promotions in a sluggish cereal market. Kellogg said third quarter U.S. cereal industry sales grew 1.5 percent, measuring all retail outlets.
"As previously forecast, our third quarter performance was influenced significantly by competitive conditions in the U.S. cereal category," Arnold Langbo, chairman, said in the third-quarter earnings statement.
According to Information Resources data, U.S. ready-to-eat cereal sales in grocery stores only fell 1.6 percent to 2.6 billion pounds for the 52 weeks ended August 11, according to the most recent data available, compared with a year ago.
Kellogg's sales volume declined in that period by 4.1 percent to 881.3 million pounds for a market share of about 34.4 percent, Information Resources said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
French holding company CGIP said on Friday it could strike a deal in the next few weeks to acquire a 28 percent stake in automotive parts firm Valeo SA from Italian businessman Carlo De Benedetti.
In a meeting with reporters, CGIP chairman Ernest-Antoine Seilliere described negotiations as nearing a "momentum."
"In the coming weeks, we could come to a conclusion," he said. He said it would be a longterm investment for CGIP.
Seilliere declined to discuss a potential price for the stake owned by De Benedetti's holding company Cerus.  
CGIP's efforts to buy a piece of Valeo moved a step closer late Thursday, when it sold half of its 20 percent stake in Crown Cork &amp; Seal Co Inc for $560.6 million.
CGIP has said that profits from the sale would be used to finace the stake in Valeo.
"Now we have sold part of our assets, obviously we are seen as serious to buy Valeo, but we still have a way to go. We are serious about what we are doing," Seilliere said.
CGIP is a holding company with industrial and information technology investments.
Seilliere said the purchase of a stake in Valeo would fit its strategy to invest in firms that have a global presence. Seventy percent of Valeo's business is outside of France, he said.
He also dismissed the potential of Valeo falling prey to the cyclical nature of the autmotive business, saying that opportunities abound in growing economies around the world.
He noted that CGIP previously held a stake in Valeo and sold it in 1993. He also said that the company does not need any significant productivity or organizational changes.  
Although Seilliere appeared hopeful that a deal for the Valeo stake will be struck, he also said that CGIP would certainly consider another investment if the Valeo acquisition falls apart. He did not name any potential companies.
Regarding its stake in Crown Cork, which now totals 10.1 percent, Seilliere said CGIP's relationship with company had not been affected by the partial sale of its investment.
"Our team is still there. Nothing has changed," he said, noting that CGIP still has more than $600 million invested in the company.
CGIP decided to sell a portion of its Crown Cork &amp; Seal holdings after investors and analysts expressed concern that packaging had grown to 50 percent of CGIP's assets, up from about 21 percent in 1986, Seilliere said.
French chemicals and drugs group Rhone-Poulenc SA on Friday announced a larger than expected 13 percent rise in third quarter profits but said the increase would have been 25.1 percent but for a product recall.
Investors cheered the figures, encouraged by a good rise at its pharmaceuticals unit and the limited impact of the product recall. Rhone shares closed up 3.16 percent at 147 francs.
The company, which reported net income of 756 million francs ($147 million) versus 669 million at the same stage last year, said the earnings rise would have been almost twice as big but for the product recall.
Operating profit was 2.05 billion francs in the third quarter compared with 1.83 billion. Net sales were 20.47 billion francs, up from 19.62 billion.
Rhone-Poulenc and its Rhone-Poulenc Rorer U.S. drugs unit issued a profit warning on October 10 after the Centeon joint venture with Germany Hoechst recalled its albumin products due to the risk of bacterial infection.
Finance director Jean-Pierre Tirouflet reiterated that the recall would cut six to seven percent from analysts' forecasts for 1996 results.
Asked to comment on 1996 forecasts going as high as 2.75 billion francs, Tirouflet said: "I have lower forecasts in my head."
According to Jacques Chahine Finance, the market consensus for 1996 is 2.631 billion francs, rising to 3.426 billion in 1997, after 2.134 billion in 1995.
For the first nine months, net income was up 10.5 percent at 2.17 billion francs.
"This progress is a consequence of an improvement in results in the pharmaceutical, animal health and agro businesses," the company said.
"The figures are better than we had forecast," said analyst Guy Phillips at BZW in London. "Especially the operating profit at life sciences, pharmaceuticals pleased. It was an encouraging set of results."
Phillips said he may increase his profit per share forecast from eight francs to 8.5 francs. Brokers Leven in Paris said it saw no reason to make any adjustments to its forecast.
Rhone said the agro sector recorded a 14.7 percent increase in sales and a 54.9 percent rise in its profit contribution, due to a good global economic climate and the successful marketing of new products, especially Fipronil.
In chemicals and the fibres and polymers divisions, a rise in volumes failed to compensate for falling prices.
Operating profit on the chemicals side was relatively steady at 281 million francs versus 278 million, while in fibres and polymers it took a dive to 115 million from 248 million.
The company said it had completed sales of non-strategic assets to the tune of six billion francs by September 30 and that its net debt-to-equity ratio had fallen to 0.63 versus 0.72 at the end of 1995.
Tirouflet said Rhone expected assets sales to reach seven to nine billion francs by the end of the year.
Pharmaceutical earnings would grow in the fourth quarter as the synergy savings of the 1995 Fisons acquisition came through and because of new products, such as the June launch of anti-cancer drug Taxotere in the United States. ($1=5.141 French Franc)
Silicon Valley executives and venture capitalists are turning into political sharks, spending millions of dollars to defeat a California ballot measure that they claim threatens American capitalism and could send stock prices reeling.
Normally the region, which is the birthplace of such industry stalwarts as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Intel Corp., is more obsessed with Internet software tools and microchips than with politics.
But so widespread is the fear that California's Proposition 211 could make the state a haven for shareholder lawsuits that once politically neutral executives have been jolted into action -- hanging anti-211 banners on buildings and encouraging employees to vote against the initiative.
Proposition 211 is a far-reaching measure that would eliminate certain safeguards and immunity currently given corporate officers and staff members. For instance, it would hold them liable if they made projections about future results and they turned out to be wrong.
Opponents of the measure fear that corporate officers would stop making any projections about how their business was doing, making it more difficult to make investment decisions and leading to a decline in share prices.
Proponents argue it will help victims of fraud recover losses. Opponents charge it is an "insidious" bid by securities lawyers to line their own pockets.
There were signs the campaign against 211 could affect the outcome. A Los Angeles Times poll published Friday found 52 percent of likely voters now oppose it, up 10 percentage points from a similar Times poll five weeks ago.
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt has urged California voters to reject the measure, warning it would use the state's legal system to roll back the federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act passed last year.
"California state courts could become a magnet for class action suits," he wrote in a letter of opposition.
Both President Bill Clinton and Republican presidential rival Bob Dole have come out against the measure and a recent study said its passage could result in a loss of up to 1.8 million jobs and a $102 billion drop in U.S. domestic output.
The study, by trade economist Clyde Prestowitz, also projected a subsequent rise in "frivolous lawsuits" could result in as much as a 24 percent drop in stock market prices.
This, he concluded, "would far outweigh the 4 cents per dollar compensation, or less, that shareholders would receive from settlements and judgments" under the measure.
High-tech companies are considered more vulnerable to shareholder suits because their stocks typically are owned by demanding investors seeking fastest-growing companies, which can make their stock prices more volatile.
A recent survey by the American Electronics Association of its members found nearly half would consider leaving the state if 211 passes. Some economists estimated it would eliminate 150,000 jobs and cost $1.3 billion in California alone.
Even companies outside California, like International Business Machines Corp. and software giant Microsoft Corp. have opposed the measure, concerned that a single California shareholder could bring suit against them.
If it passes, high tech leaders like venture capitalist John Doerr, who is leading the $30 million-plus battle against 211, and Cypress Semiconductor Chief Executive T.J. Rodgers, have said they expect outside company directors to quit.
"If it passes, my net worth, my house, will be on the line," Rodgers said at a recent public debate on the issue here. "It's a sleazy trick," he added.
Proponents of 211, including lawyers who bring shareholder lawsuits and stand to benefit directly from it, said they drew up the measure after a business-led initiative in the spring was opposed by nearly 60 percent of California voters.
"Americans are disgusted by corporate greed," said Richard Alexander, an attorney speaking in favour of the measure recently. "People are angry about massive layoffs."
But in Northern California, where high tech businesses have thrived, executives said the proposition was more geared to forcing corporations to settle shareholder suits up front.
Boosting the pressure on General Motors Corp. for a new labour agreement, the United Auto Workers union Friday set a Sunday night deadline for a strike against the world's largest automaker.
UAW President Stephen Yokich said in a statment that union negotiators were not optimistic that a new contract deal could be reached by the deadline of 11:59 p.m. EST Sunday (0459 GMT Monday).
While he did not say if the union's 215,000 GM hourly workers would actually strike, Yokich said the UAW had notified GM that it will terminate its extended 1993 contract with the automaker if the deadline passes with no agreement. The union typically does not work without a contract.
"UAW members have been advised to continue to work unless notified by their local union," Yokich said.
"The UAW bargaining team will continue to make serious efforts to achieve a new agreement. While we are not optimistic, we remain hopeful that this can be accomplished prior to the expiration of the current contract at 11:59 p.m. on Sunday," he added.
The move comes just three days after GM settled a contentious, 20-day strike with the Canadian Auto Workers union that caused parts shortages that are still forcing the auto giant to shut down some U.S. assembly plants.
Although the UAW talks had been moving quickly before the strike in Canada, people close to the negotiations said the two sides remain at odds over the union's demand for employment guarantees and GM's desire for flexibility to shift more parts work to outside, usually non-union suppliers.
Both Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current work forces over the next three years. GM has resisted the pattern, saying it wants to exclude certain components plants from the employment guarantees.
A GM spokesman said full-scale UAW negotiations at GM's Detroit headquarters will continue throughout the weekend for the first time since the strike in Canada began on Oct. 2.
In a statement, GM chief negotiator Gerald Knechtel said, "We remain committed to entering into agreement that balances the needs of our employees and the UAW with the flexibility GM needs to continue to improve our competitiveness."
"We've had open and constructive dialogue with the UAW since the talks began and we're hopeful we can focus with the UAW on concluding these negotiations as soon as possible."
Meanwhile, GM continued to run out of Canadian-made parts at U.S. assembly plants. In Flint, Mich., local UAW officials said GM told more than 6,600 workers not to report to work at the automaker's massive Buick City complex on Monday.
The facility makes Buick LeSabre, Oldsmobile 88 and Pontiac Bonneville sedans, as well as V-6 engines and other components.
Buick City is the largest of several facilities to cut back production due to shortages of parts following the end of the Canadian Auto Workers' strike this week.
On Thursday, GM laid off about 5,000 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, assembly plant in a shutdown that will last two weeks. The plant builds the popular Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire small cars.
Also on Friday, GM notified some of the 2,926 workers at the nearby Lordstown metal stamping plant they would be idled next week. Another 474 workers at a components plant in Vandalia, Ohio, will be idled next week, GM said.
Excluding the layoffs that will start next week, GM said it had a total of 23,340 workers idled in the United States and Mexico on Friday.
GM's 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers members began returning to work on Wednesday after they ratified a new contract that puts some limits GM's ability to shift work to outside suppliers but allows the automaker to sell two contested parts plants.
Struggling to stay on course away from its troubled past, Trans World Airlines Inc. now must find a new chief executive to take the helm of the troubled carrier.
How quickly it can find an experienced airline executive for the job will determine whether it stays on course or runs into more financial trouble, industry analysts said.
The St. Louis-based airline said on Thursday that Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Erickson, who has headed the company for the past two years, will leave in January.
"The last thing that the company needs now is more management turmoil," said one analyst, who declined to be identified. "It doesn't have a strong or stable enough footing to deal with this kind of stuff."
Erickson's departure comes just four months after Chief Financial Officer Robert Peiser left the company. At the time, TWA said Peiser's decision to leave was over differences in management direction.
"They're going to have to regain the confidence of Wall Street," said William Fiala, who follows the airline industry for Edward D. Jones &amp; Co., which is based in TWA's hometown. "The only way they're going to do that is by coming up with a leader that's a proven turnaround (manager), or well-respected in the industry."
Erickson, who became chief executive officer in August 1994, brought the airline through a bankruptcy reorganization and back to where it was buying new aircraft. But the turnaround is not finished, and higher fuel costs and the July 17 crash of flight 800, which hurt confidence in the carrier and therefore its sales, have stalled the company's improvement.
"Erickson was the one who really steered them through the first half of the turnaround, but they still have a way to go," Fiala said.
The company on Thursday reported a $14.3 million third-quarter loss and said its yield, a measure of fares, fell in the quarter.
Industry experts said TWA's board of directors might have become impatient with the pace of the turnaround after seeing the third-quarter results. But they also quickly defended Erickson's record at the company.
"When you see what TWA was three years ago and what it is now, it's a world of difference," said Michael Boyd, president of Aviation Systems Research Corp., a research and consulting firm  in Golden, Colo.
"I do not see anything you can ascribe to Jeffrey Erickson that occurred in the third quarter. I don't see any decision made by Jeffrey Erickson that messed up the airline."
Calls to Erickson at TWA's offices Friday were transferred to a public relations office, which said he was unavailable for comment. TWA Chairman Thomas Meagher did not return telephone calls.
Analysts said TWA's board would need to move quickly and that the next chief executive would need a good degree of independence from the board.
"Whatever they do to replace Erickson, they need a hands-on manager, not a messiah," the consultant Boyd said. "In a situation like this, you have to have free reign. You can't have people behind you second-guessing every one of your moves."
Boyd said several managers at United Airlines might be interested in the job. He also suggested that former Alaska Air Group Chief Executive Raymond Vecci could be a candidate.
Earlier this year, Erickson, who was criticised by families of the flight 800 victims for the company's response to the crash, told students at Washington University in St. Louis that the aftermath of the crash was draining, said Stuart Greenbaum, dean of the university's business school.
"I can't help believing the crash just took a lot out of Jeff," said Greenbaum, who said he is a friend of Erickson's. "That was so difficult for him, as it would be for any human being, to try to represent the company to the world" after the tragedy, in which 230 died.
Anti-government protests swept across Canada's biggest city on Friday as demonstrators in Toronto shut down the transit system, disrupted businesses and tried to break into the Toronto Stock Exchange.
"We've come to the place where the real power is ... They get their power and strength from inside this building," Jim Stanford, an economist for the Canadian Auto Workers, told hundreds of protesters outside the exchange.
Demonstrators chanted "Shut it down, shut it down," as they pounded on the glass doors of Canada's biggest stock market. One man wearing a mask and combat fatigues was seen hurling himself against the doors.
Protest organisers later moved the rally away from the doors of the exchange.
In another part of the city, Ontario Finance Minister Ernie Eves said it was ironic that some of the groups that are protesting have huge pension funds that invest in stocks.
Protesters hit Toronto streets, paralysing rush-hour subway trains and closing businesses in Canada's biggest city to protest deep budget cuts by Ontario's Conservative government.
Subway and bus service ground to a halt in this city of 2.2 million people, forcing about one million commuters to walk, drive or cycle to work or just stay home.
Unionized workers, civil servants and social activists also descended on government offices and factories in the first day of the so-called "Days of Protest" against budget cutbacks.
But picketers failed to disrupt commuter trains from Toronto's bedroom communities or interrupt service at Pearson Airport, the country's busiest. Expected traffic jams on the city expressways also did not materialise.
In the days leading up to the protest, a siege mentality gripped Toronto's Bay Street, the heart of Canada's financial community.
At least one brokerage firm flew traders to its offices in New York and Montreal, while other brokers slept in hotel rooms or in their offices overnight.
Other companies hired boats to ferry employees across Lake Ontario from nearby communities.
The protesters are furious with Premier Mike Harris' plans to cut spending by C$8 billion ($5.9 billion) to wipe out a huge deficit by the turn of the century.
Since sweeping to power in 1995 promising a right-wing revolution in Canada's most populous province, the Conservatives have revamped labour laws, slashed welfare payments, introduced workfare and announced plans to close hospitals and trim education budgets.
"These cuts that Harris made are hurting the workers. This is part of the polarisation that is happening in Ontario. The anger is going to grow and grow," Syd Ryan, president of the Ontario division of the Canadian Union of Public Employees, told picketers outside a government building.
But Harris, who has been dubbed "Newt of the North" in reference to Republican U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, has vowed the protests will not stall his "Common Sense Revolution."
"Will they discourage us from creating more jobs? No. Discourage us from workfare? No. That's what we were elected to do and I don't expect that most of the public want us to change from that agenda," Harris told reporters.
The Conservatives' popularity has held at around 50 percent in recent opinion polls.
Many commuters took the delays in stride.
"I see the protesters have a point, but I think it's going to inconvenience a lot of people who don't have any other choice," said John Ivarey.
A poll taken this week found that 67 percent of Toronto residents opposed the "Days of Action" rallies.
Protesters waved placards and temporarily blocked cars from entering government parking lots, but Toronto police said there were no major incidents of violence.
One man was charged with a weapons offence after allegedly threatening picketers with a baseball bat outside a bus garage. There also were skirmishes outside a postal station.
Several major manufacturers cancelled day shifts. De Havilland Inc., a unit of transportation firm Bombardier Inc. , said 6,200 employees at its Toronto aircraft plant would be off the job Friday.
Protesters hit Toronto streets on Friday, paralyzing rush-hour subway trains and closing businesses in Canada's biggest city to protest deep budget cuts by Ontario's Conservative government.
Underground subway and bus service ground to a halt in this city of 2.2 million people, forcing about one million commuters to walk, drive or cycle to work or stay home.
"They're picketing all over the place, so we've postponed service," Marilyn Bolton, a spokesperson for the Toronto Transit Commission said in a telephone interview.
Unionized workers, civil servants and social activists also descended on government offices and factories on this first day of the so-called "Days of Protest."
But picketers failed to disrupt commuter trains from Toronto's bedroom communities or interrupt service at Pearson Airport, the country's busiest airport.
The Toronto Stock Exchange had expected protesters to disrupt trading, but Canada's biggest stock market opened as usual.
At least one brokerage firm flew traders to its Montreal office to work today, while other brokers slept in hotel rooms or in their offices overnight.
The stock exchange has been targeted for a major rally later today.
The protesters are furious with Premier Mike Harris' plans to cut spending by C$8 billion ($5.9 billion) to wipe out a huge deficit by the turn of the century.
Since sweeping to power in 1995 promising a right-wing revolution in Canada's most populous province, the Conservatives have revamped labor laws, slashed welfare payments, introduced workfare and announced plans to close hospitals and trim education budgets.
"These cuts that Harris made are hurting the workers. This is part of the polarization that is happening in Ontario. The anger is going to grow and grow," Sid Ryan, president of the Ontario division of the Canadian Union of Public Employees, told picketers outside a government building.
But Harris, who has been dubbed "Newt of the North" in reference to Republican U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, has vowed the protests will not stall his "Common Sense Revolution."
Despite the opposition to his government, the Conservatives' popularity continues to hold around 50 percent in opinion polls.
Protesters waved placards and temporarily blocked cars from entering government parking lots, but Toronto police said there were no major incidents of violence.
One man was charged with a weapons offence after allegedly threatening pickets with a baseball bat outside a bus garage. There also were skirmishes outside a postal station.
Many commuters took the delays in stride.
"I see the protesters have a point, but I think it's going to inconvenience a lot of people who don't have any other choice," said John Ivarey.
Meanwhile, several major manufacturers canceled day shifts. De Havilland Inc., a unit of transportation firm  Bombardier Inc., said 6,200 employees at its Toronto aircraft plant will be off the job Friday.
The protest will not affect General Motors Corp.'s Canadian unit, which is getting back to work after a nearly three-week strike ended earlier this week.
Adding to the controversy over the safety of automobile air bags, the federal government's auto safety agency said Thursday it was stepping up an investigation into spontaneous air bag deployments in several General Motors Corp. cars.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said it has received five reports of air bags deploying without a collision in 1996-model GM mid-size sedans, due to corrosion in the air bag sensing and diagnostic module. In each case, water was spilled or leaked onto the floor of the vehicle.
The probe involves 395,994 cars currently on the road, including the 1996 Chevrolet Lumina and Monte Carlo, Buick Regal, Pontiac Grand Prix and Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme.
In its monthly defect investigation report, NHTSA said three of the "inappropriate deployments" resulted in injuries, but none resulted in death. Four of the five cars were traveling between 10 and 40 mph when the bags inflated.
News of the probe comes as the NHTSA is fielding growing numbers of calls from consumers worried about reports of  child deaths caused by air bags.
Air bags have saved the lives of more than 1,136 adults since 1986, said NHTSA spokeswoman Liz Neblett. But with inflation speeds of up to 200 mph, they also have killed 28 children since 1990.
Earlier this week, NHTSA Executive Director Ricardo Martinez said the the agency advised that all children under the age of 12 should ride in the back seats of cars and trucks equipped with dual front air bags.
The agency raised that age after 5-year-old Frances Ambrose was killed by an air bag in a Nashville, Tenn., crash despite properly wearing lap and shoulder belts.
The NHTSA is now considering several remedies to the situation, including an auto industry request to reduce the inflation pressure of passenger air bags.
Other alternatives include requiring "smart" air bag systems that have the ability to detect the size and weight of the occupant and adjust inflation accordingly.
In the probe of the GM cars, NHTSA said all of the vehicles use an air bag sensing and diagnostic module that is located underneath the front passenger seat on top of the carpeting. It is not sealed, making it susceptible to moisture intrusion.
NHTSA said owners of the vehicles reported that they:
-- Spilled a glass of water on the vehicle floor.
-- Drove through a car wash.
-- Spilled a bucket of water on the vehicle floor.
-- Spilled soapy water on the vehicle floor.
-- Discovered a trunk leak in the vehicle.
In addition, the agency said it was investigating two other instances of unexplained air bag deployment, one when a driver was backing out of a driveway and another when the car was driving at 20 mph.
A GM spokesman said the automaker was cooperating with the probe.
The company also uses the same air bag sensor on 1994 and 1995 model versions of the same cars, but reported only two instances of airbag deployments due to corrosion.
In one case, GM said the vehicle was apparently flooded by an ocean tide, and in another case, the entire rear end of the vehicle was severely corroded.
The investigation was upgraded to an engineering analysis, in which the agency will examine and physically test the components in question.
General Motors Corp, still feeling the effects of a 20-day Canadian autoworker strike, told all of its 5,000 Lordstown, Ohio, assembly workers they will be idled for two weeks, company and United Auto Workers officials said Thursday.
The plant, which makes the Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire small cars, has run out of transmissions supplied by a GM parts plant in Windsor, Ontario.
Workers at another assembly plant, the Buick City complex in Flint, Mich., could also be idled on Friday or early next week, industry sources said. The plant, which employs 5,236 hourly UAW workers, makes LeSabre, Park Avenue, Eighty Eight and Bonneville, mid-sized cars.
"It's a situation we are looking at," said GM spokesman Tom Klipstine, adding the automaker continues to monitor all of its vehicle and parts production operations.
As of Thursday afternoon GM had told 23,801 assembly and parts workers in the United States and Mexico to stay home because of a shortage of parts from its Canadian operations.
The Lordstown shutdown is the second U.S. plant where GM has suspended operations completely since 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers began an escalating strike on Oct. 3. The first plant to go totally down was Detroit/Hamtramck, which makes Cadillacs.
The Lordstown plant has three crews. The first crew was told to report back Nov. 10, the second Nov. 11 and the third Nov. 12, a UAW spokeswoman said.
Losing production of the mid-sized cars is not expected to have a big impact on sales, because the automaker had between 67 and 98 days supply of those vehicles on dealer lots as of the end of September, according to Autodata Corp.
But GM could feel the impact of lost production of its popular Cavalier and Sunfire cars. The Cavalier had a 61 days supply and the Sunfire had 61. The industry generally considers 60-days supply to be ideal.
GM and CAW negotiators reached agreement on a new three-year labor pact Oct. 22. The deal was approved by CAW members Wednesday.
The Canadian operations are being brought up in stages.
A top executive at Compaq Computer Corp. said Thursday he was leaving the world's biggest personal computer maker and joining an Internet startup, giving credibility to the startup and setting in motion a realignment of Compaq's sales managers.
The executive, Ross Cooley, is leaving a position where he was in charge of Compaq's $7 billion North American computer business for a job at a four-month-old company with the high-tech name of pcOrder.com
At pcOrder.com, Cooley, 55, will fill the as-yet unfilled positions of chairman and chief executive officer and have a salary of $1 a year, plus stock options.
His move from an executive suite at a Fortune 500 company to a technology startup mirrors that of several other executives over the past few years, notably, the departure of Alex Mandl from AT&amp;T earlier this year.
Cooley's move provides instant credibility to pcOrder.com, which provides a marketplace on the Internet for buying and selling personal computers and related equipment.
Cooley's retirement had been rumored in the industry for several months, and Compaq announced that James Schraith, formerly president of The Cerplex Group Inc. and president of AST Research Inc., is replacing Cooley.
"Ross's plan to retire has been in discussion for awhile and there were some rumors flying," Eckhard Pfeiffer, president and CEO of Compaq, said in an interview. "The time has come and obviously as you can see the succession is already in place ... Ross has been a great leader."
At the same time, Compaq created a new sales infrastructure, hiring Richard Snyder, a Dell Computer Corp. executive, for a newly-created position of general manager, worldwide sales. All the heads of Compaq's five geographical sales regions -- Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Japan, Latin America and North America -- will report to him.
Previously, these regions all reported directly to Pfeiffer. But as Compaq has quickly grown to an almost $18 billion company in recent years, Pfeiffer said he needs another executive to stay in touch with the day-to-day activities of its worldwide sales and support organization.
"Fifteen people have been reporting to me up until this morning when we announced this change," Pfeiffer said. "That is a huge top management organization. As the company grows, my tasks change."
Compaq has grown from its origins as one of the first companies to successfully clone the IBM PC in the early 1980s to become the leading PC maker in the world. Cooley is known for his strong relationships with the PC sales channel and his role in building Compaq's massive distribution.
"My feelings in joining pcOrder are similar to those I had in joining Compaq almost 13 years ago," Cooley said in a statement. "Back then, I saw the irrefutable logic of the PC as a new paradigm in computing. Today, I believe pcOrder's technology and vision represent an irrefutable value proposition."
Before joining Compaq in 1984, Cooley held several sales and marketing positions at International Business Machines Corp., where he worked for 18 years.
"Getting Cooley is really a coup for pcOrder," said John McCarthy, a Forrester Research analyst, adding that Cooley's connections in PC distrubution will give pcOrder more credibility as it builds its system. Cooley's acceptance of $1 a year for salary, plus stock options, is also a "big bet on the company's upside (potential)," McCarthy said.
pcOrder for now is still private, but the company is contemplating a public offering eventually.
"We do not have a set plan or a set timetable, but we are seriously considering it," said founder and President Christina Jones. Jones will continue as president of pcOrder. The post of chairman and CEO had been vacant since the start-up was founded in June.
pcOrder.com is a marketplace on the Internet, where PC makers, components makers and distributors list information and receive orders.
Currently, sales representatives and customers user pcOrder to configure build-to-order PCs, compare prices, and place orders over the Internet. The system contains information on over 150,000 products in the PC industry from over 800 manufacturers.
The "Big Bang" maintained London as one of the world's financial hubs, but 10 years on the role of specialised financial "boutiques" at the heart of the City is under mounting pressure from huge integrated investment banks.
"The wonderful time that there has been for the small boutique since Big Bang is over. The days of the single violinist are past, it's time for the full orchestra," one banking source told Reuters.
The so-called Big Bang of 1986 brought about radical reforms in the way the London Stock Exchange and the British government bond market operated, principally by allowing mergers between merchant banks, brokers and stock jobbers.
It saw the demise of traditional names such as Wedd Durlacher Mordaunt and Phillips and Drew which became parts of Barclays' investment bank BZW and of UBS respectively.
And ever since the initial wave of changes investment banking giants with global aspirations have been hoovering up small players which have carved out a niche for themselves.
U.S. EXPERIENCE SETS THE PACE
In the world of corporate finance this pattern of smaller firms being swallowed up by the large players is set to mirror what has taken place in the U.S., corporate financiers say.
"I believe the world is moving away from small nimble-footed boutiques, which had a wonderful time under the Conservative government. The new world is going to be based around very big cross-border corporate finance. You need a very big broking arm behind you," one corporate financier said.
This need for broking capacity and a dwindling number of independent brokers, combined with increasing regulatory demands for capital, has shrunk the opportunities for boutiques. Even in the growing derivatives market, the amounts of capital needed to play the global markets mean small outfits are hard to sustain.
BOUTIQUES THREATENED BY EUROPE INTEGRATION
Apart from the possibility of an opposition Labour government and perhaps greater restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, with the need for companies to prove that a takeover is in the public interest, the other threat to corporate finance boutiques comes from European integration.
Increased bureaucracy and more rigorous European Commission demands on the companies involved in takeovers will mean even greater research capabilities and legal back-up are required by the financiers advising companies on such deals, bankers say.
"Boutiques won't be much good if you have got to take a huge team of analysts and brokers out to Brussels every time you are planning a deal," said one.
With U.S. investment banking mammoths such as Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch building increasing roles in corporate finance as well as their traditional broking and trading strengths, this is also putting pressure on the small corporate finance players.
HAMBRO MAGAN FALLS TO NATIONAL WESTMINSTER
A recent casualty is J Hambro Magan, which two weeks ago was sold to NatWest Markets, the investment banking arm of Britain's National Westminster Bank, for an estimated 80 million pounds ($127.3 million).
The prominent corporate finance boutique was set up by George Magan in 1988 and has been involved in some of the biggest mergers and acquisitions in Britain in recent years.
"The new world is going to be dominated by the very big boys," another banker said.
Some commentators say the future of small boutiques is not as bleak as it may appear. They see the demise of some as merely part of a cycle which will spawn new dynamic teams based around talented individuals who may decide to leave a large established firm, take clients and expertise with them, and go it alone.
"It's an on-going process. It's always postulated every time there's a rash of takeovers that boutiques are going out of fashion. But it's the same process as Big Bang. Small firms have developed since. Some have disappeared and been replaced by others," a banking analyst at one U.S. investment bank said.
In cases such as Hambro Magan, the cycle has turned full circle, with the key individuals making significant financial gains for themselves by selling a highly successful business at its peak and coming back into the folds of a larger player.
SMALL FIRMS CAN SELL PERSONALISED SERVICE
But while small firms will never compete for the truly global roles, there is still a place for the personalised localised service offered by boutiques. "There's always a demand for that type of service," he added.
Others agree that in a world where investment banks are attempting to become so-called "one-stop shops", the pressures to sell clients an entire package of products could in fact enhance the position of boutiques, whose advice is perhaps more truly independent as they don't have other axes to grind.
DRESDNER KLEINWORT BUYS LUTHY BAILLIE
Another boutique to have fallen prey to a multi-national banking player with plenty of capital behind it, sophisticated trading and broking operations and global ambitions is the bond specialist Luthy Baillie Dowsett Pethick &amp; Co.
It was snapped up only two weeks ago by Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, the investment banking division of Germany's second largest commercial bank Dresdner Bank.
Peter Luthy, one of the founders of the 15-person bond boutique which was set up in 1990, said the firm's reliance on a market undergoing significant changes because of the interest rate environment and the constraints of size had forced it to seek embrace of a larger partner.
"We learned a hell of a lot. But our business skills are better used in a big firm. The opportunities are better in a big firm," Luthy told Reuters recently.
Such changes will not necessarily end with the small firms such as Luthy's. Banking analysts and corporate financiers alike have for some time been predicting the days are numbered for what one called the "super-boutiques".
This dwindling list of traditional British merchant banks includes Cazenoves, NM Rothschilds, Hambros, Schroders and Robert Fleming. Takeovers here are complicated in some cases by family holdings, but strategic alliances have been suggested as an acceptable alternative in order to compete globally.
"I think even the super-boutiques are going to be struggling over the next five years," the first banking source said. ($1=.6285 Pound)
The government's surprise decision to block proposed bids for South West Water on Friday seems to make mergers between water firms taboo but keeps open the door to the creation of more multi-utilities, analysts said.
"It is surprising...(now) the idea of multi-utilities is gaining ground, it does look as if that is the platform from which companies can grow," said Marshall Whiting of Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull.
Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) head Ian Lang said in a statement he had decided not to permit planned bids by Severn Trent and Wessex Water for South West because they would be against the public interest.
Ian Byatt, head of industry watchdog Ofwat, told Reuters Financial Television such mergers were "not in my view the best way to get efficiency for customers."
He added takeovers from outside the water industry "do not damage competition and my use of (yardsticks) in the same way."
Wessex Water said on March 7 it wanted to bid for South West, prompting Severn Trent to enter the arena on March 21 but both companies declined to name a price until the DTI, which automatically considers such mergers, announced its decision.
Analysts had suggested such bids might value South West Water at over 950 million pounds ($1.52 billion) or around 750 pence per share.
The two bids were the first by British water companies for one of their colleagues, although France's Lyonnaise des Eaux bought Northumbrian Water last year after promising 15 percent price cuts to 2001.
North West Water took over regional electricity company (REC) Norweb to create United Utilities in January this year while Hyder was formed when Welsh Water bought South Wales Electricity (Swalec).
The DTI's block shook the market, which had been expecting approval conditional on price cuts, possibly up to 20 percent.
Ofwat said it had recommended price cuts of 15 percent from Wessex if its bid were to be approved but had advised that it saw no remedy which would make Severn Trent's bid acceptable.
South West Water's shares plunged to touch a low of 565 pence before recovering slightly to be down 128 pence at 577.5 pence by 1144 GMT.
Severn Trent shares peaked at 619 pence but then eased back to be up 37 pence at 612.5 pence while Wessex added 25 pence to 342.5 pence, off a high of 349 pence.
Relieved of the bid pressure, South West bowed to promptings from Ofwat and said it would pay customers a 15 pound rebate in June 1997 while promising to hike its interim dividend 20.4 percent to 11.8 pence as sector results begin to flow next week.
The company, whose area covers large stretches of coastline requiring hefty investment to meet environmental standards, has the highest customer bills in the country.
Wessex said it was "disappointed" that it could not go ahead with a bid, saying it felt a merger would have created "significant benefits for both customers and investors."
The utility, which abuts the area of South West Water in western England, said it remained committed to strategic goals of delivering quality service and enhanced shareholder value.
Analysts said Severn Trent might now buyback shares or make a special dividend, despite recent tax changes adverse to these.
Severn Trent said it had expected to offer savings of 27 pounds a year to households from the proposed merger, adding that now it would concentrate on sharing benefits of improved operational performance with shareholders and customers.
Wessex Water, meanwhile, might switch attention to the possibility of a merger with another utility, analysts said.
"Now the government has blocked Wessex from bidding for South West, Southern Electric might take a look," said Nigel Hawkins of Yamaichi.
The regional electricity company was confounded in its attempts to take over Southern Water earlier this year, losing out to generator and distributor Scottish Power. ($1=.6264 Pound)
China demanded on Monday that the United States cancel plans to sell Stinger missiles, launchers and other weapons to Taiwan to prevent "new damage" to slowly recovering Sino-U.S. relations.
"We ask the U.S. side...to cancel plans to sell missiles to Taiwan to prevent creating new damage to Sino-U.S. relations," a Foreign Ministry spokesman told Reuters.
Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a renegade province since the end of the civil war in 1949. It opposes the sale of weapons to the island.
The United States should take Sino-U.S. relations into account and live up to its promise regarding the sale of weapons to Taiwan, the spokesman said without elaborating. Washington has agreed to reduce weapons sales to Taiwan.
Rejecting a similar demand by China on August 15, the U.S. Defence Department notified Congress last Friday of plans to sell Stinger missiles, launchers and other weapons to Taiwan.
U.S. officials said the weapons were defensive and the sale would not affect the basic military balance in the region.
The Pentagon said Taiwan wanted to buy 1,299 Stinger missiles, 74 guided missile launchers, 74 flight trainer Stinger missiles, 96 jeep-like Humvee vehicles and 500 rounds of .50 calibre ammunition for an estimated $420 million.
The principal contractors are the Hughes Missile Systems Co., Boeing Missile and Space Systems Co. and AM General.
Such sales must be made through the U.S. Defence Department, not directly by contractors, and Congress must be notified in case it wants to veto the sale.
Sino-U.S. ties have see-sawed in recent years over disputes ranging from human rights abuses and widespread copyright piracy in China to alleged nuclear proliferation by Beijing.
The ties plunged to new depths over the last year in a row over a landmark trip by Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui to the United States in June 1995.
Earlier this month, Beijing warned Washington that a U.S. stopover by Taiwan's Vice-President Lien Chan could cause new damage to slowly recovering ties.
However, in a sign that China was eager to prevent Lien's visit from harming slowly warming relations, Beijing refrained from further comment while Lien was in the United States.
Ties between Beijing and Washington were set on better footing after a visit to Beijing by U.S. National Security Adviser Anthony Lake in July.
The trip laid the groundwork for an exchange of high-level visits later in the year, with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher invited to China in November and Chinese Defence Minister Chi Haotian due to go to Washington before the end of December.
An exchange of visits by Chinese President Jiang Zemin and U.S. President Bill Clinton could go ahead next year, if Clinton wins re-election in November.
Chinese officials have said they expect Christopher's visit, his first since a 1994 trip that stumbled badly over human rights, to go smoothly with both sides keen to remove obstacles in their relations.
In a separate development that could strain Sino-U.S. ties, the Washington Post reported on Sunday that U.S. intelligence officials had concluded that Pakistan was secretly building a medium-range missile factory near Islamabad using Chinese blueprints and equipment.
Asked to comment on the report, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said: "The report is totally groundless."
The three-year-old partnership between British Airways and USAir Group Inc, already severely damaged by a potential competing alliance, moved closer toward collapse on Thursday when USAir said it was cancelling a key marketing agreement between the two carriers.
Although surprised by the move, industry analysts said it will have little impact on USAir, which received far less revenue from the alliance than did British Airways.
British Airways still retains a 24.6 percent stake in Arlington, Va-based USAir.  
USAir said it would end its code-sharing pact and frequent flier programs with British Airways on March 29, 1997.
Code-sharing is a marketing agreement in which airlines share passengers and extend their reach to destinations they do not typically serve. Over the past several years, dozens of world airlines have entered into such pacts.
The USAir move cames amid increasing hostility between it and its British partner. British Airways earlier this year announced plans to form a massive alliance with powerhouse AMR, parent of American Airlines Inc.  
The move infuriated USAir, which promptly sued the two carriers and contended that their planned pact would undermine the USAir-British Airways partnership.
Although the relationship had certainly turned rocky, most analysts had not expected USAir to sever the tie until the proposed British Airways-AMR pact was finalized. That proposed alliance has raised antitrust concerns, awaits regulatory approvals and is linked to other aviation issues.
"Clearly, it's difficult to simultaneously sue a partner and cooperate with a partner," said Samuel Buttrick of PaineWebber.  
British Airways said in London that it would continue to work with USAir until the pact is terminated.
At the time the partnership began in 1993, USAir was a money-losing airline that desperately needed to reduce costs and expand its global presence. British Airways invested $400 million under the partnership, but refused to pump any more money in the carrier because of its poor financial performance.
Since then, USAir's financial position has improved amid healthier times for the airline industry, but its costs are still higher than other major U.S. carriers.
"At the time the alliance was made, USAir received the cash which it needed, but today, it doesn't need it," said Glenn Engel of Goldman Sachs.
USAir's future plans are now more uncertain with the decision to sever ties with British Airways, especially because chief executive officer Stephen Wolf has stressed that he wants to expand USAir's transatlantic presence.
"I'm a little mystified. They don't have anything to replace it with yet," said Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette analyst James Higgins.
French chemicals and drugs group Rhone-Poulenc SA on Friday announced a larger than expected 13 percent rise in third quarter profits.
The company, which reported net income of 756 million francs ($147 million) versus 669 million at the same stage last year, said the rise in earnings would have been 25.1 percent but for an expensive product recall.
Operating profit was 2.05 billion francs in the third quarter compared with 1.83 billion. Net sales were 20.47 billion francs, up from 19.62 billion.
The share market cheered the earnings figures, encouraged by a good rise at its pharmaceuticals unit and the limited impact of the product recall. At midday, Rhone shares were nearly two percent higher at 145.30 francs.
Rhone-Poulenc and its Rhone-Poulenc Rorer U.S. drugs unit issued a profit warning on October 10 after their Centeon joint venture with Germany Hoechst recalled albumin products due to the risk of bacterial infection.
The company is still working on replacing recalled stocks of the blood plasma products. Rhone-Poulenc took a 81 million franc charge in the third quarter and will take a total 1996 charge of 100 to 200 million francs.
Finance director Jean-Pierre Tirouflet reaffirmed the recall would cut six to seven percent from analysts' forecasts for the 1996 results.
Asked to comment on 1996 forecasts going as high as 2.75 billion francs, Tirouflet said: "I have lower forecasts in my head."
According to Jacques Chahine Finance, the market consensus for 1996 is 2.631 billion francs, rising to 3.426 billion in 1997, after 2.134 billion in 1995.
For the first nine months, net income was up 10.5 percent at 2.17 billion francs.
"This progress is a consequence of an improvement in results in the pharmaceutical, animal health and agro businesses," the company said.
"The figures are better than we had forecast," said analyst Guy Phillips at BZW in London. "Especially the operating profit at life sciences, pharmaceuticals pleased. It was an encouraging set of results."
Phillips said he may increase his profit per share forecast from eight francs to 8.5 francs. Brokers Leven in Paris said it saw no reason to make any adjustments to its forecast.
Rhone said the agro sector recorded a 14.7 percent increase in sales and a 54.9 percent rise in its profit contribution, due to a good global economic climate and the successful marketing of new products, especially Fipronil.
In chemicals and the fibres and polymers divisions, a rise in volumes failed to compensate for falling prices.
Operating profit on the chemicals side was relatively steady at 281 million francs versus 278 million, while in fibres and polymers it took a dive to 115 million from 248 million.
The company said it had completed sales of non-strategic assets to the tune of six billion francs by September 30 and that its net debt-to-equity ratio had fallen to 0.63 versus 0.72 at the end of 1995.
Tirouflet said Rhone expected assets sales to reach seven to nine billion francs by the end of the year.
Pharmaceutical earnings would grow in the fourth quarter as the synergy savings of the 1995 Fisons acquisition came through and because of new products, such as the June launch of anti-cancer drug Taxotere in the United States. ($1=5.141 French Franc)
Analysts were mixed on the Rhone-Poulenc SA third quarter results and some said they might raise full-year forecasts while others left forecasts unchanged.
"The figures are better than we had forecast," said analyst Guy Phillips at BZW in London.
"Especially the operating profit at life sciences, pharmaceuticals pleased. It was an encouraging set of results," he said.
Phillips said he was considering raising his profit per share forecast from eight francs to 8.5 francs.
But Brokers Leven in Paris said there was no reason to adjust estimates.
Shaw Bridges at Merill Lynch said that while health care earnings were better than expected, the performance of fibres and chemicals had been weaker. He kept his forecast for 1996 net attributable profit of 2.7 billion francs, against 2.134 billion in 1995.
He also maintained his "hold" rating for the shares because they were "fairly valued". He said the company was an attractive long-term investment.
Bridges said he expected a full-year provision of 500 million francs at Rhone-Poulenc, mainly at chemicals and fibres. Rhone took 1.73 billion in provisions in 1995.
"The results are in line with expectations. They confirm that Rhone-Poulenc is a company pulled forward by its pharmaceuticals and agro," said Liliane Gauffre at Paris brokers BNP Du Bouzet.
Rhone-Poulenc reported a third quarter net income of 756 million francs versus 669 million at the same stage last year and an operating profit of 2.054 billion francs versus 1.828 billion previously.
Net sales were 20.468 billion francs versus 19.621 billion.
For the first nine months, net income was up 10.5 percent at 2.166 billion francs.
The operating profit at health sciences, which includes pharmaceuticals and animal health, jumped to 1.583 billion francs from 977 billion.
Finance director Jean-Pierre Tirouflet said the increase was in line with the company's forecasts about the synergy effects of the acquisition of Fisons in 1995 and was also due to new products.
He cited the anti-cancer drug Taxotere, Lovenox, Granocyte as well as Hepatitis A and B vaccines as examples.
Tirouflet also said there had been good sales in anti-fever vaccines in the United States.
But brokers Lehman Brothers said Taxotere and Rilutek were taking off slowly. It downgraded the share to neutral from outperform, after a good recent run.
Thierry le Francois of Massonaud said he expected a 1996 net income of 2.5 billion and further charges for the recall of albumin products. He re-itereated his buy advice on the share.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452
Protesters hit Toronto streets on Friday, paralysing rush-hour subway trains and closing businesses in Canada's biggest city to protest deep budget cuts by Ontario's Conservative government.
Underground subway and bus service ground to a halt in this city of 2.2 million people, forcing about one million commuters to walk, drive or cycle to work or stay home.
"They're picketing all over the place, so we've postponed service," said Marilyn Bolton, a spokeswoman for the Toronto Transit Commission.
Unionized workers, civil servants and social activists also descended on government offices and factories on this first day of the so-called "Days of Protest."
But picketers failed to disrupt commuter trains from Toronto's bedroom communities or interrupt service at Pearson Airport, the country's busiest.
The Toronto Stock Exchange had expected protesters to disrupt trading, but Canada's biggest stock market opened as usual.
At least one brokerage firm flew traders to its Montreal office to work, while other brokers slept in hotel rooms or in their offices overnight.
The stock exchange has been targeted for a major rally later in the day.
The protesters are furious with Premier Mike Harris' plans to cut spending by C$8 billion ($5.9 billion) to wipe out a huge deficit by the turn of the century.
Since sweeping to power in 1995 promising a right-wing revolution in Canada's most populous province, the Conservatives have revamped labour laws, slashed welfare payments, introduced workfare and announced plans to close hospitals and trim education budgets.
"These cuts that Harris made are hurting the workers. This is part of the polarisation that is happening in Ontario. The anger is going to grow and grow," Sid Ryan, president of the Ontario division of the Canadian Union of Public Employees, told picketers outside a government building.
But Harris, who has been dubbed "Newt of the North" in reference to Republican U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, has vowed the protests will not stall his "Common Sense Revolution."
Despite the opposition to his government, the Conservatives' popularity continues to hold around 50 percent in opinion polls.
Protesters waved placards and temporarily blocked cars from entering government parking lots, but Toronto police said there were no major incidents of violence.
One man was charged with a weapons offence after allegedly threatening pickets with a baseball bat outside a bus garage. There also were skirmishes outside a postal station.
Many commuters took the delays in stride.
"I see the protesters have a point, but I think it's going to inconvenience a lot of people who don't have any other choice," said John Ivarey.
Several major manufacturers cancelled day shifts. De Havilland Inc., a unit of transportation firm  Bombardier Inc., said 6,200 employees at its Toronto aircraft plant will be off the job Friday.
The protest will not affect General Motors Corp.'s Canadian unit, which is getting back to work after a nearly three-week strike ended earlier this week.
The family of jailed Chinese dissident Wei Jingsheng on Friday welcomed a decision by the European Parliament to award him a prize for freedom of thought, but Beijing slammed the honour as rude interference.
The choice of Wei, who has spent most of the last two decades in jail, as 1996 Sakharov prize laureate would give him encouragement, his family said.
"I feel very happy... we feel grateful to the European Parliament for its support," Wei's brother Wei Xiaotao told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The Chinese foreign ministry said the award served as encouragement for action against the Chinese government that had already damaged Sino-European ties.
"It is a rude interference in China's internal affairs and judicial jurisdiction," the ministry said. "We express great regret and anger at this decision of the European Parliament."
Wei, regarded by many as the father of Chinese pro-democracy dissent and a nominee for this year's Nobel Peace Prize, was jailed for 15 years in 1979 and had been paroled for less than a year before being detained again in April 1994.
Last December he was sentenced to a further 14 years in prison for subversion and for funding democracy activists.
The European Parliament announced on Thursday that Wei had won the 15,000 Ecu ($19,000) Sakharov prize for freedom of thought, to be awarded at a ceremony in Strasbourg in December.
Former winnners of the prize, created to honour the Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov, include South African President Nelson Mandela and Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
The award put further strain on ties between the parliament and Beijing, which on Thursday angrily denounced a recent meeting between parliamentary officials and the Dalai Lama, China's exiled arch-rival for Tibetan loyalties.
Wei was a criminal convicted of revealing state secrets and threatening state security who had broken the terms of his release. No country had the right to interfere in his case, the foreign ministry said.
The award had already harmed ties with Europe, it said.
Wei Xiaotao, who recently met his brother in jail at the Nanpu saltworks in the northern province of Hebei, said Wei would have to wait until next month to learn of the award.
"He will have to wait until our next meeting to hear about this prize... that place is very closed to news," Wei Xiaotao said. "There's no chance that anyone there will here about it and tell him."
China has in recent months cracked down hard on the tiny band of remaining dissidents who have not yet fled into exile or been imprisoned.
Leading critic Liu Xiaobo this month was sent to a labour camp for three years after he co-authored a petition calling for the impeachment of Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin.
Former student leader Wang Dan, who spent four years in jail for his role in 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing that were bloodily crushed by the army, is currently awaiting trial in Beijing on the capital charge of subversion.
The award of the Sakharov prize to Wei was unlikely to change Beijing's stance on dissent, his brother said. "I don't think it will have a big influence," he said.
Wei's family had no plans to use the prize money that came with the Sakharov prize, Wei Xiaotao said.
"It's his money... In the future, when he comes out, he can use it," he said.
(1 Ecu=$1.2)
China said on Friday that Taiwan was a pawn and toy of hostile Western forces out to weaken and divide the country and thwart its development.
"Taiwan...acts as a pawn of international anti-Chinese forces, a toy in the hands of others," said a front-page commentary in the People's Daily, the ruling Communist Party's official newspaper.
The commentary, issued to mark the 25th anniversary of Beijing's ousting of Taipei from the United Nations, accused Taiwan of collaborating with forces hostile towards China to try to regain admission to the world body.
"Some Western forces have ceaselessly played the 'human rights card', 'Tibet card' to limit China's development," the commentary said.
"They see the Taiwan issue as one of their trump cards -- an important means of weakening and dividing China," it said without naming any countries but implying the United States.
In September, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a non-binding resolution supporting Taiwan's efforts to rejoin the United Nations, enraging Beijing.
China, which regards Taiwan as a rebel province, maintains that the issue was settled once and for all in 1971 when Taipei was replaced by Beijing at the United Nations.
The commentary said countries that have helped Taiwan with its bid to regain admission to the United Nations were shortsighted like "rats which can only see an inch in front of their eyes".
It urged Taiwan's allies, mainly Central American, African and Caribbean countries, to stop "foolish activities in the interest of others".
For the fourth consecutive year, China and its supporters blocked moves in the General Assembly in September to consider U.N. membership for wealthy but diplomatically isolated Taiwan.
China considers any move to give Taiwan U.N. membership an encroachment on its sovereignty and an interference in its internal affairs.
Beijing and Taipei have been diplomatic rivals since Mao Zedong's Red Army defeated Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists and forced them to flee to Taiwan at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
Beijing's communist rulers have sought to push the island into diplomatic isolation to force it into reunification. Almost 160 countries recognise Beijing, while 30 have diplomatic relations with Taiwan.
Both communist Beijing and capitalist Taipei agree to reunify one day, albeit on different terms. China has threatened to invade if the island declares independence.
The commentary said Taiwan's offer to give $1.0 billion to the United Nations on admission into the world body had become an "international joke".
It jeered at the argument that Taiwan deserved a seat as it was now democratic and economically prosperous, saying the island was "deceiving others and itself".
"No matter what political system Taiwan implemented or what level of economic development it attained...regaining admission to the United Nations would be purely a dream," it said.
U.S. Vice-President Al Gore could visit China in early 1997 if he was re-elected next month, a senior U.S. official said in Beijing on Saturday.
"We have sent a proposal here and it's been reviewed and I don't think there's any real disagreement," U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs Eileen Claussen said when asked if Gore had any plans to visit China.
"The vice-president is very interested in trying to establish...a sustainable development forum here between (Chinese Premier) Li Peng and the vice-president," she told a news conference.
No specific date has been set for Gore's visit.
"We are now discussing terms of reference for that and there's every expectation that if those terms of reference are worked out, the vice-president will make a visit in the spring," she said.
Asked to elaborate on the terms of reference, Claussen said: "We just have to have sort of a set of operating rules and subjects we're going to talk about."
A visit by Gore could improve often stormy Sino-U.S. ties, which plunged to their lowest ebb in more than two decades after Washington enraged Beijing by allowing Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui to make a landmark, private visit in June 1995.
Beijing and Taipei have been diplomatic rivals since Mao Zedong's Red Army defeated and drove Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops into exile in Taiwan at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
China regards Taiwan as a rebel province and has sought to push the island into diplomatic isolation.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher is due to visit Beijing in November and Chinese Defence Minister Chi Haotian plans to make a long-delayed trip to Washington before the end of the year.
China postponed Chi's visit to Washington in March, infuriated by a U.S. decision to order two aircraft carriers into seas near Taiwan as the island inched towards democracy -- holding its first direct presidential elections -- in the face of missile tests and live-fire war games.
Beijing and Washington have also wrangled over alleged sales of nuclear technology by China, human rights abuses in China and trade issues.
China has bitterly accused the United States of blocking its bid to gain admission to the World Trade Organisation.
Beijing and Washington narrowly avoided a trade war in June and February 1995 over widespread copyright piracy.
A group of foreign legal experts has asked China for permission to observe next week's trial of detained dissident Wang Dan, a human rights group said on Saturday.
Wang faces the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government, a crime that carries a maximum penalty of death and a minimum sentence of 10 years in prison.
The legal team consists of French senator Robert Badinter, former U.S. attorneys-general Nicholas Katzenback and Richard Thornburgh and former Canadian solicitor-general Warren Allmand, the New York-based Human Rights Watch said.
"The request ... is in part to see whether the right of Wang Dan to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal ... is respected," the human rights group said.
Wang, 26, who vanished into detention in May 1995, would plead not guilty at his Beijing Intermediate People's Court trial which opens on Wednesday, family members have said.
The human rights group said the chances of China allowing the foreign legal experts to observe the trial were slim. "Admittance to the courtroom is often denied to ... journalists and other 'outsiders' on grounds that the courtroom is 'too small'," Human Rights Watch said.
Wang's court appearance would likely be held out of the public eye, as was last year's trial of Wei Jingsheng, regarded as the father of China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, would attend the trial as one of two defence lawyers. His father and a sister have been allowed to sit in.
The court has refused to give details of Wang's trial other than the fact that he has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government, but one official has said Wang could appeal to the Higher People's Court if convicted.
Wang's mother has said the dissident was calm and mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, though she has said his health has deteriorated during his detention.
Human Rights Watch was not optimistic about an acquittal. "He has not had adequate time to prepare a defence," it said in a statement made available to Reuters by facsimile.
"Chinese criminal trials seldom respect the presumption of innocence, and defence lawyers are generally restricted to arguing mitigating circumstances for a reduced sentence," the group said.
Wang's family have found a lawyer willing to defend the former student leader after being given just one day in which to do so.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He had been active after his parole in 1993, defying persistent police surveillance to join in a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has in recent months cracked down on its tiny band of remaining dissidents who have not fled into exile or been imprisoned.
MCI Communications Corp. said Monday it reached a 10-year deal with NextWave Telecom Inc. that thrusts MCI into the top tier of U.S. wireless communications providers.
However, analysts said that while the NextWave deal should allow MCI to compete with other wireless industry heavyweights like AT&amp;T Corp., and the Sprint Spectrum and PCS PrimeCo joint ventures, MCI's wireless investment remains a cautious one.
MCI has opted to function as a major reseller of wireless services instead of paying the hefty price required to buy cellular operating licenses and to build the network infrastructure needed to offer the new services.
Under terms of the NextWave deal, MCI will offer wireless services to more than 110 million potential customers in 63 U.S. cities, including 29 of the top 50 metropolitan markets.
Washington-based MCI said it will purchase from NextWave over the next 10 years at least 10 billion minutes of capacity to offer wireless personal communications services.
MCI also said it will plug the MCI network into NextWave's, enabling MCI to offer wireless services as a seamless part of its overall package of long-distance, local access, Internet and data communications services.
"This agreement with NextWave establishes an immediate nationwide PCS footprint for MCI and represents an important next step in MCI's wireless strategy," said Whitey Bluestein, vice president for MCI wireless strategy and development.
"This is the first full interconnection agreement of its kind and brings new competition to the wireless marketplace," he said, noting that with full interconnection, MCI does not need to own wireless facilities.
Personal Communications Services (PCS) represent a new generation of cellular communications services, allowing customers to send both voice and data transmissions over wireless telephones.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but the MCI official said the price per minute would be "competitive" with expected rates for wireless phone services over the coming years.
As part of the deal announced Monday, NextWave selected MCI to provide telecommunications and other services supporting the development and ongoing operations of its personal communications services system, MCI said.
NextWave, which is based in San Diego and New York, was founded only a year ago by Allen Salmasi, a former executive at Qualcomm Inc., developers of the wireless communications technology NextWave plans to use on its proposed network.
NextWave is backed by a host of blue-chip venture capital funds and consumer electronics makers who have chipped in a total of $450 million in private financing. The company also is planning an initial public offering of stock.
The MCI deal will help underpin the financial future of debt-laden NextWave, which was the largest bidder in the U.S. Federal Communications Commission's auctions for "C-band" wireless radio spectrum held earlier this year.
NextWave paid $4.7 billion for its 63 city licenses. Among the major markets where Nextwave has won the chance to operate are New York, Los Angeles, Washington D.C., Boston and Denver.
That bidding process, and additional auctions that coincidentally got under way in Washington Monday, are designed to allow entrepreneurial companies a shot at competing in the emerging markets for wireless communications services.
For MCI, the deal enables it to expand quickly into the rapidly growing market for wireless personal communications services after having missed several chances to enter the business in prior years.
In early 1995, MCI dropped out of an earlier round of "big-league" auctions for PCS licences after the bidding became too rich for its taste.
Previously, MCI had flirted with the acquistion of Nextel Communications Inc. as a route into the wireless arena.
While impressive sounding, analysts noted that MCI's committment to buy an average of one billion minutes per year over 10 years from NextWave represents a conservative bet on the growth of the wireless phone market.
One billion minutes of air-time amounts to a fraction of current cellular phone use, which is estimated to be running at about 40 billion minutes this year, based on industry calculations of roughly 36 million subscribers.
MCI said the NextWave agreement is a model for additional agreements it expects to sign with other wireless providers as part of its wireless interconnected network strategy.
"This was MCI's strategy all along," said Jeffrey Kagan, an Atlanta-based telecommunications industry analyst.
"Reselling service was how they became a heavy hitter in long distance in the first place," Kagan said. "What their plan is, is to resell service from other providers and build networks where they see the need to do so," he said.
Industry analysts expect to see ferocious price-cutting among wireless telephone service providers as competition heats up, and the latest deal will make it even more intense.
MCI's stock gained $1.25 to close at $26.75 on the Nasdaq.
Negotiators for General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union were back at the bargaining table on Saturday in an effort to reach a new national labor agreement before a Sunday night strike deadline.
Bargainers, led by UAW President Stephen Yokich, reconvened about 8 a.m. (noon GMT) at GM's Detroit headquarters following a night off after the union's decision late on Friday to cancel its contract with the automaker at 11:59 p.m. EST Sunday (0459 GMT Monday).
The deadline marks the first time the UAW threatened a strike in its 1996 negotiations with Detroit's Big Three automakers, which up to now have been marked by an unusually conciliatory tone and extremely secretive discussions.
It also came days after GM's 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers members began returning to work on Wednesday following a three-week strike against the automaker's Canadian operations.
In the U.S. talks the two sides were at odds over the same issues that caused the walkout in Canada -- the union's demand for job security and GM's desire to sell several parts plants and maintain flexibility to shift components work to outside suppliers, a practice known as outsourcing.
In the U.S. negotiations GM wanted to modify the UAW contract pattern set by Ford   Motor Co. and Chrysler
Corp., which agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their UAW  workforces over the next three years.
GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, wanted to exclude certain components plants from the employment guarantees, including a door-hardware plant in Flint, Michigan, and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Michigan.
Ford and Chrysler buy more of their parts from outside suppliers than GM does, often from firms that paid their workers significantly less than the $19-an-hour base wage paid in Big Three factories.
Yokich said in a statment Friday that he was not optimistic that a deal could be reached before the deadline, but told workers to remain on the job until further notice.
On Saturday UAW spokesman Reg McGhee declined to say whether the union was still pessimistic about the talks.
"That was yesterday's statement," McGhee said. "We're just saying that the talks are continuing and we're not characterizing the progress."
GM spokesman Charles Licari said the automaker was prepared for round-the-clock negotiations, but declined to provide further details of the talks.
GM's chief negotiator, Gerald Knechtel, said Friday that the automaker was "committed to entering into agreement that balances the needs of our employees and the UAW with the flexibility GM needs to continue to improve our competitiveness."
GM flush with $14 billion in cash on its balance sheet and operating earnings that more than doubled in the third quarter to $1 billion, showed much willingness this year to sustain costly strikes in its continued quest for competitiveness.
Industry analysts estimated the cost of the Canadian strike at $150 million to $450 million, while a 17-day strike at two Dayton, Ohio, brake plants in March reduced GM's first quarter profit by $900 million.
In Dayton, GM preserved its right to buy a future brake system from an outside supplier, while in Canada, GM won the right to sell two parts plants in return for recognizing some limits on outsourcing.
But the effects of the Canadian strike continued to linger last week, as more of GM's U.S. assembly plants plants ran out of Canadian-made parts.
In Flint, Michigan, local UAW officials said GM told more than 6,600 workers not to report to work at the automaker's massive Buick City complex on Monday.
The facility makes Buick LeSabre, Oldsmobile 88 and Pontiac Bonneville sedans, as well as V-6 engines and other components.
On Thursday GM laid off about 5,000 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, assembly plant in a shutdown scheduled to last two weeks. The plant builds the popular Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire small cars.
Also on Friday GM notified some of the 2,926 workers at the nearby Lordstown metal stamping plant they would be idled next week. Another 474 workers at a components plant in Vandalia, Ohio, will be idled next week, GM said.
Excluding the layoffs that will start next week, GM said it had a total of 23,340 workers idled in the United States and Mexico on Friday.
Compaq Computer Corp., the world's largest personal computer maker, will launch its first computer workstations this week with low-cost entrants that already have at least one workstation maker scrambling.
"They have a fighting chance to really threaten some of the traditional vendors," said Keren Seymour, an analyst with International Data Corp., a market research firm.
On Tuesday Compaq will unveil three systems in the "personal workstation" area, the faster-growing segment of the $15.1 billion market for workstations -- high-powered computers used by engineers and designers to perform complex calculations requiring enormous power.
Traditional workstations run on the UNIX operating system and the market has been dominated by Sun Microsystems Inc., Digital Equipment Corp., International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
But in the past two years, Microsoft Corp's Windows NT operating system has been making major inroads and a host of companies now develop lower-cost workstations running NT.
According to IDC, the personal workstation market -- workstations selling at prices from $4,500 to $10,000 -- is growing at a faster pace than traditional, UNIX-based arena, where systems cost from $17,000 up to $100,000.
While Windows NT cannot yet handle some of the memory-intensive, highly technical applications, Seymour said, NT-based workstations are widely used for financial modeling, animation, and computer-aided design.
Engineers can also run their desktop applications, such as spreadsheets, word processing, and electronic mail, on the same system, instead of having two separate computer systems.
"It's growing at an average rate of 44 percent a year," Seymour said of the personal workstation area, compared with traditional workstation growth of 7.5 percent, on a compounded annual growth rate, through the year 2000.
Already, Houston-based Compaq's expected entry in the market has at least one major vendor nervous.
Last week, IBM held a hastily-arranged conference call for analysts to discuss the formation of a new business unit that will develop Intel-based workstations running NT.
"It was an answer to Compaq's initiative," said Sam Albert, an industry consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y. Otherwise, he asked, "Why would IBM give a heads up for a product that isn't ready until March?"
IBM's current line of workstations, the RS/6000 family, are designed around IBM's PowerPC chip and run on the UNIX operating system. In its third-quarter earnings report, however, IBM said its workstation business was flat, another indicator of the increasingly popularity of the lower-cost NT-based machines.
Compaq is expected to introduce three models in the $5,000 to $10,000 range, IDC's Seymour said. A Compaq spokeswoman declined to comment on the products to be unveiled Tuesday.
PC Week, an industry trade magazine, reported last week that Compaq will price its entry-level workstation at $5,000, targeted to molecular modeling and computer-aided design.
Two other models, for the animation creation business, are priced from $8,000 to $10,000, PC Week said.
As part of its recent product revamp, Silicon Graphics Inc., long a leader in the animiation workstation area, also recently introduced a less-expensive model called the O2, which runs on UNIX, in response to the growth in the NT-based machines.
But analysts said SGI and Sun Micro will not likely embrace the Microsoft operating system NT anytime soon, even though it is poised to become the faster-growing workstation segment.
"Sun and SGI would rather die than do NT," said Seymour. "That's the unfortunate thing ... At some point, the NT market share is going to be bigger than theirs."
Apple Computer Inc., struggling to remain the teacher's pet among computer makers, is turning a modified version of its handheld Newton organizer into an inexpensive portable computer for students.
The computer maker on Monday will unveil the Apple eMate 300, an $800 machine that looks like a grown-up's laptop with a keyboard and a flip-up screen, but in a rugged casing that can survive rough handling.
Apple plans to sell the machine directly to elementary and high schools, beginning early next year, as an alternative to personal computers. For the price of a $2,500 multimedia PC, a school can buy three eMates, Apple executives said.
"The federal government says we need to get to a three-to-one student-to-computer ratio by the year 2000," said Jim Groff, general manager of Apple's information appliances group. "I would say the eMate is the only credibled vehicle for accomplishing that."
More vital to Apple, the product could keep educators from abandoning the company as the leading supplier of computers for classrooms, analysts said.
"The potential for something like this in a classroom setting is tremendous," said Mike McGuire, a mobile computing analyst at Dataquest Inc. "This will be an indication to educators that Apple is one of the few companies spending time extending computing to more and more kids."
Apple needs a distinctive product to set itself apart from other personal computer makers crowding into the education market, analysts said.
Although Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., still enjoys strong educational sales, sales of IBM-compatible personal computers by companies such as Compaq Computer Corp. are growing much faster.
Apple's computer has always been the favored tool for teaching children how to use computers. But in the face of Apple's uncertain future and a flood of cheap PCs, schools are less likely to remain loyal.
For the 1996-1997 school year, of all the computers that schools plan to buy, 56 percent will be Apple Macintoshs and 40 percent IBM-compatible machines, according to a recent report by Quality Education Data, an education market researcher. In the previous school year, the purchasing plans were 61 percent Macintosh and 38 percent PC.
"The numbers are overwhelming in favor of PCs," said Carole Cotton, president of CCA Consulting Inc., another tracker of technology purchases by schools.
"No school district can afford to make a mistake" when picking computers they will use for years, she noted.
Apple's Groff said, however, that the eMate is not the company's answer to competitors' inroads.
Instead, he said, the device was built for schools asking for a cheap, powerful computer that can offer educational software and Internet connections -- as well as endure rough handling by kids.
"When we introduced the Newton three years ago, it was a solution in search of an application," Groff said. Education turned out to be one of the best applications, he said.
Along with the eMate, Apple plans to unveil a beefier version of the Newton MessagePad on Monday. The new MessagePad 2000 features better Internet capabilities, easier connection to PCs and built-in word processing and spreadsheet software.
Analysts said, however, that the eMate is the more interesting device. Teachers and students will like it because it is not as esoteric and hard to run as a traditional personal computer.
"Kids are having to learn more about how to run a computer than about reading and writing," McGuire said. "The ability to have the kid just turn on the device and get right into the writing assigment is really valuable."
The eMate weighs four pounds (1.8 kg) and fits into a backpack. It can run for a week on rechargeable batteries, according to Apple.
The machine features a built-in word processor, drawing and equation-drawing programs and an address book. With an optional modem and software, students can browse the Internet.
Still, the eMate could be a tough sell for Apple.
Because its software is based on the Newton operating system, it cannot run the thousands of educational programs written for the Macintosh and for PCs running Microsoft Corp.'s Windows software.
Apple executives are confident, however, that the eMate will help the company place more its computers on students' desks.
"There's 52 million screaming (grades) K-to-12 children to sell to," said Robert Kondrk, Apple's manager of education product lines. "We've known for years this is an opportunity, but we didn't have the technology to do it before. We do now."
Beijing Mayor Li Qiyan is to step down in a long-delayed reshuffle after the downfall of his mentor, the Chinese capital's disgraced Communist Party boss Chen Xitong, sources with close ties to the city government said on Sunday.
Li, 58, mayor of Beijing since 1993, would become a vice-minister of labour and could eventually replace Li Boyong, 62, as labour minister, said the sources who asked not to be identified. The two Lis are not related.
Li Qiyan's departure was widely expected after one of his vice-mayors came under investigation for economic crimes and committed suicide in April 1995.
The suicide shocked the nation and led to the downfall of Li's mentor, Chen Xitong, who has since disappeared from the public eye.
Chen resigned as Beijing's Communist Party boss and was later sacked from the Politburo, becoming the most senior official to be ensnared in a corruption scandal since the communists came to power in 1949.
Officials say Chen was himself still under investigation for possible wrongdoing.
The city government had been virtually paralysed since Chen's disgrace, the sources said.
"After Chen Xitong stepped down, the (city) government lost its credibility ... and could maintain only the most basic operation," one source told Reuters. "It could not embark on huge projects ... It could not do anything."
Li would be replaced by Jia Qinglin, 56, party secretary of the southeastern province of Fujian, the sources said.
Jia arrived in Beijing last week to take up his new post as acting mayor, the sources said. Jia is expected to formally become the capital's mayor after his nomination is approved by the Beijing People's Congress.
In the run-up to the party's 15th congress next year, Jia could be promoted to Beijing's Communist Party secretary and land a seat in the party's powerful Politburo, they said.
The vice-mayor who committed suicide was found to have used his position to amass 116 houses illegally and build himself a villa on the outskirts of the city. He also masterminded a $37 million embezzlement and graft scam, officials have said.
Corruption was virtually eliminated in the years after the communists came to power in 1949, but has staged a comeback along with economic reforms in the past 17 years.
Communist Party chief and state president Jiang Zemin has declared war on corruption, warning that the scourge was a virus which threatened the party. Courts frequently impose the death penalty in major corruption cases.
Earlier this month, prosecutors filed charges of corruption against 30 people, including Zhou Beifang, former head of two publicly listed Hong Kong affiliates of a China steel giant, and two former officials of the Beijing city government.
The announcement of the charges against Zhou was among the first against one of China's so-called "princelings", the popular sobriquet applied to the children of the ruling party elite, who enjoy wide influence.
Zhou, detained in February, 1995, is the son of Zhou Guanwu, former chairman and Communist Party secretary of Beijing's giant Capital Iron and Steel Corporation, also known as Shougang, and among the largest conglomerates in China.
Chile, the world's biggest copper exporter, hopes to forge close trade and technical support ties with China, the world's biggest copper importer, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mariano Fernandez said.
"There is Chinese interest in participating in some mining projects in Chile, and we have an interest in participating in service and technology in copper mining in China," Fernandez told Reuters in a recent interview.
Of Chile's total 1995 mining exports worth US$7.85 billion, $280 million was earned from selling copper to China, he said.
"It is not only potential ... this is reality," he said. "If we look ahead, there are some forecasts that in five years we will produce almost one-third of the world's total copper.
"But looking at 1.2 billion (Chinese) people and the rush for development in China, we should not exclude China as a very important client for Chilean copper."
Chile, with 25 percent of world copper reserves, mined 2.512 million tonnes of the red metal in 1995, far ahead of its closest rival the United States, with 1.8 million, and fifth placed China with 435,000 tonnes, Chilean figures show.  
Copper accounted for 36.4 percent of Chile's total exports in 1995 of $16.5 billion, the figures show.
China's 1996 demand for copper has been officially put at one million tonnes.
Its copper imports for 1996 were expected to be 200,000 tonnes, the president of China Non-ferrous Metals Industry Corp, Wu Jianchang, said in May.
Trade and industry sources have speculated recently about China's interest in buying copper properties in Chile, along similar lines to recent investment by major Chinese corporations in Peru's iron ore industry.
But one source with a major regional producer said the high price of Chilean copper mines, combined with a cash squeeze in China and the poor international reputation of Chinese buyers, would keep Chilean producers reluctant to forge long-term ties.
"I don't see China guaranteeing long-term supply contracts," the industry executive, based in Hong Kong, said.
"It is not the way they work because if the prices fall, they are then very reluctant to pay," he said. He was referring to the practice of some Chinese importers of refusing to pay for commodities if the price falls between order and delivery.  
Fernandez did not elaborate on the details of cooperation Chile was hoping for with China. "We are at the beginning (of discussions)," he said.
He was in Hong Kong after a four-day trip to Beijing where he met with senior Chinese officials, including Minister for Foreign Affairs Qian Qichen and Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Wu Yi.
The purpose of his visit was to lay the groundwork for a visit to Chile on November 6 and 7 by Chinese Premier Li Peng, he said.
Fernandez said he asked Chinese officials to consider recognising Chile as free of Mediterranean fruit fly, as Japan had already done, and free of foot-and-mouth disease.
"The Chilean dream is to sell one apple, one bunch of grapes and one bottle of wine a year to every Chinese person," he said.
Negotiators for General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers adjourned their talks on Saturday evening with less than 30 hours to go before a midnight Sunday strike deadline.
Bargainers, led by UAW President Stephen Yokich, took their second consecutive night off since the union announced on Friday that it will cancel its contract with the automaker at 11:59 p.m. EST Sunday (0359 GMT on Monday).
GM spokesman Charles Licari declined to say whether the adjournment was a sign of poor progress in the talks aimed at a new national labour agreement covering the automaker's 215,000 UAW workers. Typically bargaining runs around the clock when a settlement is near.
The deadline marks the first time the UAW has threatened a strike in its 1996 negotiations with Detroit's Big Three automakers, which up to now have been marked by an unusually conciliatory tone and extremely secretive discussions.
It also came two days after GM's 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers members began returning to work on Wednesday after a three-week strike against the automaker's Canadian operations.
In the U.S. talks, the two sides are still at odds over the same issues that caused the walkout in Canada -- the union's demand for job security and GM's desire to sell several parts plants and maintain flexibility to shift components work to outside suppliers, a practice known as outsourcing.
GM wants to modify the UAW contract pattern set by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp., which have agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current UAW work forces over the next three years.
GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, wants to exclude certain components plants from the employment guarantees, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Michigan and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Michigan.
Ford and Chrysler buy more of their parts from outside suppliers than GM does, often from firms that pay their workers significantly less than the $19-an-hour base wage paid in Big Three factories.
Yokich said in a statement on Friday that he was not optimistic that a deal could be reached before the deadline but told workers to remain on the job until further notice.
On Saturday UAW spokesman Reg McGhee declined to say whether the union was still pessimistic about the talks.
"That was yesterday's statement," McGhee said. "We're just saying that the talks are continuing and we're not characterising the progress."
GM spokesman Charles Licari said the automaker was prepared for round-the-clock negotiations, but declined to provide further details of the talks.
GM, flush with $14 billion in cash on its balance sheet and operating earnings that more than doubled in the third quarter to $1 billion, has shown willingness to sustain costly strikes to continue its quest for competitiveness.
Industry analysts estimate the cost of the Canadian strike at $150 million to $450 million, while a 17-day strike at two Dayton, Ohio, brake plants in March reduced GM's first quarter profit by $900 million.
But the effects of the Canadian strike continued to linger last week, as more of GM's U.S. assembly plants plants ran out of Canadian-made parts.
Bargainers for the United Auto Workers union and General Motors Corp. continued bargaining on Sunday but kept a tight lid on whether any progress was being made toward a new labour pact as a midnight (0500 GMT) deadline loomed.
GM spokesman Ray Deibel said talks resumed at midmorning Sunday after they adjourned Saturday evening. He declined to be more specific, or to say if GM Chairman Jack Smith is taking part in the discussions at the automaker's headquarters in downtown Detroit.
At stake is a new labour agreement for GM's 215,000 hourly UAW workers. GM employs more than half of the 390,000 UAW members who work at Detroit's Big Three automakers. It is the only one of the Big Three not to have a new three-year labour contract.
Analysts speculated that negotiators could be wrangling over contract language that would dictate how many workers to whom GM is obligated to guarantee jobs.
Bowing to UAW concerns over job security, both Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have agreed to new contracts that promise to keep 95 percent of their current UAW hourly workforces, except in the event of a severe industry downturn.
"I think if there's a sticking point that may be it," said Dale Brickner, a labour expert at the Michigan State University. "GM may be pushing to get that figure farther down than the UAW may be comfortable living with."
GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, is trying to shed 12 unprofitable parts plants, and wants to exclude certain component facilities from the employment guarantee. Those include a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich.
In settling a 20-day strike by the Canadian Auto Workers union last week, GM was able to secure a deal that included the selling of two parts plants and flexibility to outsource UAW President Stephen Yokich had not indicated what he would do after the contract extension expires at midnight Sunday. Yokich on Friday set the Sunday deadline, but did not actually threaten a strike .
However, there was speculation Sunday the UAW could mount a plant-specific strike if enough progress has not been met by the deadline Sunday.
By hitting light truck plants, such as the sport/utility facility in Janesville, Wisc., the union could hurt the sale of some of GM's most profitable products at a time when it is trying to bounce back from the Canadian strike.
Brickner said the UAW used that strategy in the mid-1980s to hamper individual sites without shutting down the entire North American production system.
GM's U.S. operations continue to respond to the strike by 26,000 CAW workers.
More than 6,600 UAW members at GM's Buick City complex were told not to report on Monday. At the same time, however, GM was running radio ads telling first-shift workers at its Hamtramck assembly plant to report to work on Monday.
Negotiators for General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers adjourned their talks on Saturday evening with less than 30 hours to go before a midnight Sunday strike deadline.
Bargainers, led by UAW President Stephen Yokich, took their second consecutive night off since the union announced on Friday that it will cancel its contract with the automaker at 11:59 p.m. EST Sunday (0359 GMT on Monday).
GM spokesman Charles Licari declined to say whether the adjournment was a sign of poor progress in the talks aimed at a new national labor agreement covering the automaker's 215,000 UAW workers. Typically bargaining runs around the clock when a settlement is near.
The deadline marks the first time the UAW has threatened a strike in its 1996 negotiations with Detroit's Big Three automakers, which up to now have been marked by an unusually conciliatory tone and extremely secretive discussions.
It also came two days after GM's 26,000 Canadian Auto Workers members began returning to work on Wednesday after a three-week strike against the automaker's Canadian operations.
In the U.S. talks, the two sides are still at odds over the same issues that caused the walkout in Canada -- the union's demand for job security and GM's desire to sell several parts plants and maintain flexibility to shift components work to outside suppliers, a practice known as outsourcing.
GM wants to modify the UAW contract pattern set by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp., which have agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current UAW work forces over the next three years.
GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, wants to exclude certain components plants from the employment guarantees, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Michigan and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Michigan.
Ford and Chrysler buy more of their parts from outside suppliers than GM does, often from firms that pay their workers significantly less than the $19-an-hour base wage paid in Big Three factories.
Yokich said in a statement on Friday that he was not optimistic that a deal could be reached before the deadline but told workers to remain on the job until further notice.
On Saturday UAW spokesman Reg McGhee declined to say whether the union was still pessimistic about the talks.
"That was yesterday's statement," McGhee said. "We're just saying that the talks are continuing and we're not characterizing the progress."
GM spokesman Charles Licari said the automaker was prepared for round-the-clock negotiations, but declined to provide further details of the talks.
GM's chief negotiator, Gerald Knechtel, said on Friday that the automaker was "committed to entering into agreement that balances the needs of our employees and the UAW with the flexibility GM needs to continue to improve our competitiveness."
GM, flush with $14 billion in cash on its balance sheet and operating earnings that more than doubled in the third quarter to $1 billion, has shown willingness to sustain costly strikes to continue its quest for competitiveness.
Industry analysts estimate the cost of the Canadian strike at $150 million to $450 million, while a 17-day strike at two Dayton, Ohio, brake plants in March reduced GM's first quarter profit by $900 million.
But the effects of the Canadian strike continued to linger last week, as more of GM's U.S. assembly plants plants ran out of Canadian-made parts.
In Flint, local UAW officials said GM told more than 6,600 workers not to report to work at the automaker's massive Buick City complex on Monday.
Chile, the world's biggest copper exporter, hopes to forge close trade and technical support ties with China, the world's biggest copper importer, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mariano Fernandez said.
"There is Chinese interest in participating in some mining projects in Chile, and we have an interest in participating in service and technology in copper mining in China," Fernandez told Reuters in a recent interview.
Of Chile's total 1995 mining exports worth US$7.85 billion, $280 million was earned from selling copper to China, he said.
"It is not only potential ... this is reality," he said. "If we look ahead, there are some forecasts that in five years we will produce almost one-third of the world's total copper.
"But looking at 1.2 billion (Chinese) people and the rush for development in China, we should not exclude China as a very important client for Chilean copper."
Chile, with 25 percent of world copper reserves, mined 2.512 million tonnes of the red metal in 1995, far ahead of its closest rival the United States, with 1.8 million, and fifth placed China with 435,000 tonnes, Chilean figures show.
Copper accounted for 36.4 percent of Chile's total exports in 1995 of $16.5 billion, the figures show.
China's 1996 demand for copper has been officially put at one million tonnes.
Its copper imports for 1996 were expected to be 200,000 tonnes, the president of China Non-ferrous Metals Industry Corp, Wu Jianchang, said in May.
Trade and industry sources have speculated recently about China's interest in buying copper properties in Chile, along similar lines to recent investment by major Chinese corporations in Peru's iron ore industry.
But one source with a major regional producer said the high price of Chilean copper mines, combined with a cash squeeze in China and the poor international reputation of Chinese buyers, would keep Chilean producers reluctant to forge long-term ties.
"I don't see China guaranteeing long-term supply contracts," the industry executive, based in Hong Kong, said.
"It is not the way they work because if the prices fall, they are then very reluctant to pay," he said. He was referring to the practice of some Chinese importers of refusing to pay for commodities if the price falls between order and delivery.
Fernandez did not elaborate on the details of cooperation Chile was hoping for with China. "We are at the beginning (of discussions)," he said.
He was in Hong Kong after a four-day trip to Beijing where he met with senior Chinese officials, including Minister for Foreign Affairs Qian Qichen and Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Wu Yi.
The purpose of his visit was to lay the groundwork for a visit to Chile on November 6 and 7 by Chinese Premier Li Peng, he said.
Fernandez said he asked Chinese officials to consider recognising Chile as free of Mediterranean fruit fly, as Japan had already done, and free of foot-and-mouth disease.
"The Chilean dream is to sell one apple, one bunch of grapes and one bottle of wine a year to every Chinese person," he said.
Mercantile Bancorp Inc said Monday it could still make other acquisitions while it is completing its $855 million merger with Mark Twain Bancshares Inc.
"While this will be an active project for us beginning today, it doesn't mean that we don't have additional capacity to continue," John Beirise, Mercantile's group president in charge of mergers and acquisitions, said in an interview.
Beirise noted that not all of Mercantile will be involved in the acquisition of St. Louis-based Mark Twain, so acquisitions in other geographic locations might be possible. He also said Mercantile has been an active acquirer, and so is adept at assimilating mergers.
St. Louis-based Mercantile, with $18.2 billion in assets, currently has four mergers pending.
The Mark Twain deal, announced Monday and expected to close in the second quarter of 1997, is an exchange of shares valued at $49.62 per Mark Twain share, based on Friday's closing price, the banks said.  
That works out to 2.8 times Mark Twain's book value, a price Beirise conceded was lofty for banks in general.
"In general it is, yes, but not many banks earn 1.8 (return) on assets," he said. Mark Twain reported return on average assets of 1.82 percent in the third quarter, well above average for Midwest banks.
Beirise said Mercantile was not considering its potential as a takeover target when it made the deal to acquire Mark Twain. Mercantile, the second largest bank holding company in Missouri behind Boatmen's Bancshares Inc, has been mentioned by analysts as an acquisition target for banks trying to expand their Midwest presence. Boatmen's agreed in August to be acquired by NationsBank Corp.
Beirise said as long as the bank delivered value for shareholders, it would be a difficult takeover target.
"Someone would have to make the case that we're not doing the job," Beirise said. "We think as long as we're doing the job, we are the best value for our shareholders."
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
Although General Motors Corp and the United Auto Workers are separated by crucial outsourcing issues, analysts said Monday they do not foresee the union staging a protracted strike against GM.
"I don't think there's any will to have some major explosion," said David Cole, director of the University of Michigan's Center for the Study of Automotive Transportation.
"They've been close for some time," he said.  
David Healy, analyst at Burnham Securites Inc, said the union could still hit GM with "Apache raids" that target individual plants that make high-profit vehicles, however.
Talks for a new three-year labor deal were to resume Tuesday about 8:30 a.m. EST/1330 GMT. Bargainers worked for 17 hours into the early morning Monday before calling a recess, even though a contract extension deadine expired at midnight Sunday.
UAW President Stephen Yokich said earlier Monday he plans to settle the union's differences with the company at the bargaining table, and not resort to selective strikes at profitable light truck plants, as had been speculated Sunday.
The UAW represents 215,000 members at GM, more than half of the 390,000 UAW workers who work at Detroit's Big Three automakers.
Union members had made up picket signs and drafted strike schedules Sunday night in the event they got the word to walk off the job. On Monday, one local union official said members were comfortable working without a contract.
"People understand that things have got to be done the way the negotiators do it," said Ken Summers, administrative assistant to the chairman of Local 594 in Pontiac, Michigan. "Nobody wants a strike."
Summers said Local 594, where members make the popular full-size C/K pickup trucks, has "serious" issues with GM over outsourcing, as well as health and safety issues.
Harley Shaiken, a labor expert at the University of California at Berkeley, said it's possible local disputes will inger even after a national agreement is reached, like they did following the 1993 contract talks.
"Although my sense is if GM gets a pact similar to Ford and Chrysler, which I think is the odds-on favorite, we will see many of the local disputes wrap up relatively quickly," he said.
Yokich said he intends to return to GM's headquarters for more talks Tuesday. GM Chairman Jack Smith, who was present for some of the talks late Sunday, is scheduled to appear in New York at a morning news conference with Hazel O'Leary, secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy, on renewable energy issues.
A GM spokeswoman could not be reached to determine if Smith still plans to attend the event.
The Federal Communications Commission is expected to curb its power to approve or reject long-distance rates by ending a Depression-era rule requiring telephone carriers to notify the FCC before rate changes.
The new rules, set to be adopted on Tuesday, are meant to pump more competition into the $70 billion long-distance market and trim government red tape for AT&amp;T Corp, MCI Communications Corp, Sprint Corp and other long-distance carriers, said FCC officials.  
The 1934 rule that is headed for the scrap heap has forced long-distance companies to notify the FCC in advance of plans to change rates or offer new services through "tariff" filings with the agency.
It was intended originally to let regulators review the changes while giving the public an advance look, although the language contained in the filings is arcane and read by few.
Regulators say the new approach will let companies respond more quickly to competitors' price changes -- without the need to file burdensome paperwork with the FCC.  
They also say it will reduce the opportunity for companies to collude tacitly on long-distance rates.
And carriers will have to notify residential customers directly of a rate change. Currently, they unveil any rate increases through the complex tariff filings.
The new approach represents the first major step the FCC has taken under a provision of the new telecommunications law allowing it to shed outdated rules if the public interest is not harmed.
Currently, tariff filings take effect one day after their submission to the FCC. But it has not always been that way.  
When it was considered a "dominant" long-distance carrier, AT&amp;T complained that the filings offered competitors an early look at its plans, allowing the others to mimic the move and implement it beforehand.
The top long-distance company had to wait up to 60 days after a tariff filing for a new promotional plan before it could act on the plan. A year ago, the FCC ended AT&amp;T's dominant carrier status. That also ended the long delays.  
The FCC tried to eliminate long-distance tariff filings for "non-dominant" carriers such as MCI and Sprint about a dozen years ago. But a court said the agency lacked the power to do so. The FCC then asked Congress to change the law.
Industry officials have sought -- but apparently without success -- to retain the option of filing tariffs for certain residential telephone plans, saying that would make it easier to let consumers know what their phone rates are.
"We think there ought to be something in place for the mass marketplace," said an AT&amp;T spokesman.  
He added that tariff filings allow residential customers to know the terms and conditions of their service. And he said they save the company the expense of having to communicate those terms and conditions to individual customers.
But critics complain that such a practice would make it tougher for consumers to know when a rate rise was coming, because it would be buried in the jargon of the tariff filing.
Officials do favor ending tariff filings for big business customers, paperwork that can run hundreds of pages. Ending the practice, they say, would give carriers added flexibility to negotiate the best deals with big customers.
Business users agree.
"It allows for individual customers to negotiate the best terms and conditions for them, while preserving the normal customer-supplier confidentiality we see in other contracts," said Ray Cline, director of information systems for the American Petroluem Institute, an oil industry trade group.
Mercantile Bancorp Inc would likely remain a potential target in the Missouri bank merger wave after its planned combination with Mark Twain Bancshares Inc.
"This certainly doesn't mean that Mercantile is no longer a buyout candidate," said Michael Ancell, analyst at Edward D. Jones &amp; Co. "It's clear that the bank merger wave has rolled into St. Louis and it's turning into a tsunami."  
As the largest bank holding company in Missouri behind Boatmen's Bancshares Inc, Mercantile is seen by analysts as attractive to banks looking to establish a presence in the lower Midwest.
In August, NationsBank Corp agreed to buy Boatmen's Bancshares Inc for $9.5 billion.
That deal valued Boatmen's at a pricey 2.7 times book value, analysts said. Mercantile's deal values Mark Twain at about 2.8 times book value, analysts said. The pooling of interests deal is worth $49.62 a share to Mark Twain shareholders, based on Friday's closing price, the banks said.  
The St. Louis-based bank holding companies would have a combined total of $21.3 billion in assets.
"It's a pretty pricey transaction," said James Schutz, banking analyst at Chicago Corp. "Mark Twain is a very profitable and a very attractive franchise."
Mark Twain reported return on average assets of 1.82 percent in the third quarter and return on average realized common equity of 18.49 percent, putting it in the upper echelon of Midwest banks, analysts said.  
"It's an in-market deal, which allows for a tremendous ammount of efficiencies, which is good for Mercantile," said Joseph Steiven, analyst at Stifel Nicolaus. "They're paying full-boat prices, but they're getting an excellent company."
But Schutz noted that Mark Twain already operates efficiently, and questioned how much more in efficiency Mercantile could wring out of Mark Twain.
"The question I would ask is how is Mercantile going to earn back this premium they're paying," Schutz said.  
That question appeared to be in the market Monday, with Mercantile shares down 2-3/8 at 49-3/4 and Mark Twain up 3-5/8 to 46.
Mark Twain chief executive John Dubinsky, who is slated to become chief executive of Mercantile's St. Louis bank when the deal is completed, indicated there were not likely to be wholesale job cuts when the two banks combine.
"Between Mercantile and Mark Twain as we sit here today, there are over 200 job openings," Dubinsky said in an interview. "There will be some duplications, there will be some consolidation of job functions."
But "quality" individuals whose jobs are eliminated because of duplication will be able to apply for other jobs, he said, noting "I would be very surprised if there was a large number of individuals that won't be needed."
Dubinsky also would not rule out the possibility of the combined Mercantile/Mark Twain being acquired.
"Banking is changing so rapidly," he said. "One couldn't make any comment with certainty about the future."
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
A unit of CalEnergy Co., a fast-growing, Nebraska-based energy company, Monday launched a $1.2 billion takeover bid for British regional utility Northern Electric Plc, which promptly rejected the unsolicited offer.
The bid is the latest for a British power company and the second for Northern Electric in just over a year. Industry analysts said Northern Electric might end up agreeing to a takeover if it could extract a higher price.
Omaha, Neb.-based CalEnergy, through its 70 percent-owned CE Electric unit, said it would pay 630 British pence ($10.06) for each common share and 103 pence ($1.64) for each preferred share of Northern Electric, making the deal worth about $1.23 billion. The U.S.-based construction and mining company Peter Kiewit Sons owns the other 30 percent of CE Electric.
Northern Electric successfully fended off a hostile bid last year from Trafalgar House, now owned by Sweden's Kvaerner, by offering a special package worth 560 million pounds ($894 million) for shareholders.
"Our strategy is to become a leading global provider of a full range of energy services," CalEnergy Chairman David Sokol said in a statement announcing the offer.
Sokol's company has invested in geothermal and other energy projects at home and in Indonesia and the Philippines in recent years. Its core operations are in California, New York and Texas, and the bid for Northern Electric is a major move outside the U.S. market.
U.S. utilities, faced with slow growth and deregulation in their local markets, have been merging in the United States and investing abroad as they seek to grow.
Sokol said Northern Electric, based in northeastern England, had distribution and supply know-how that would complement CalEnergy's production capacity, while its size was "very manageable."
"They are the smallest regional electricity company and that means that you can get them cheaper," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
"We will see an agreed bid eventually," said Philip Hollobone at brokers Williams de Broe, who said CE Electric might eventually raise its price to secure agreement from Northern's board of directors.
In its statement rejecting the bid, Northern Electric said that in talks through Sunday, CE Electric had contemplated offering about 700 pence ($11.17) per share.
"Northern Electric is clearly saying you can have us for 700 pence per share," said one sector analyst who asked not to be identified.
CE Electric, which bought a 12.7 percent stake in Northern in the open market, said that it never suggested "any intent to value the company at 'around 700 pence per share' or even anywhere close to this figure."
Sokol said he felt the offer was "a very full price," adding that CE Electric had sought a merger agreement with Northern Electric but "the only area we could not agree on was value."
Some analysts said Northern Electric's weak balance sheet would limit what CE Electric would be willing to bid and that it might be hoping to attract another bidder. The special shareholders' package it paid to fend off Trafalgar House left it heavily in debt.
Northern Electric stock jumped 131 pence ($2.09) to close at 651 pence ($10.40) after CE Electric had managed to buy its 12.72 percent stake at the offered price earlier in the session.
CalEnergy announced in August that it bought three gas-fired cogeneration plants in Texas, Pennsylvania and New York for $226 million from Falcon Seaboard Resources Inc., a closely held energy company.
Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd., moved on Monday to resolve a dispute over its huge Busang gold discovery in Indonesia, forging an alliance with a company controlled by the eldest son of Indonesia's President Suharto.
"This is an important first step to the resolution of Bre-X's problems," said gold analyst John Ing of Maison Placements Canada.
The stock jumped C$3.50 to C$24.30 on the Toronto Stock Exchange, topping actives on more than 6.4 million shares. On Nasdaq, Bre-X rose $2.625 to $18.25.
Bre-X said it will pay $40 million for a deal with PT Panutan Duta, part of the Panutan group run by Sigit Harjojudanto, Suharto's eldest son.
Analysts said the alliance with Panutan Duta, part of the Panutan group involved in energy, mining and telecommunications, should help Bre-X clear up a widely publicised dispute over the ownership of its glittering Busang gold discovery.
Bre-X stock has taken a beating in recent weeks because of the dispute.
One of Bre-X's Indonesian partners, Jusuf Merukh, is seeking a 40 percent stake in Busang, which has estimated gold reserves of 47 million ounces.
The Indonesian government has said it will delay issuing the crucial contracts of work to Bre-X until the dispute is resolved. Without the contracts, Bre-X cannot advance its work on the Busang deposit.
The dispute has also clouded Bre-X's quest to find a major mining partner to develop and operate Busang.
Panutan will receive a 10 percent interest in the richest parts of the Busang gold deposit on the island of Kalimantan, Bre-X said.
In return, Panutan will act as a consultant for Bre-X in Indonesia and help the Calgary, Alberta-based company deal with administrative and technical matters. The deal is conditional on Bre-X's receiving essential permits from the Indonesian government.
"Having an arrangement with this fellow is a bonus," said Ing, the analyst. "The key in Indonesia is who you know."
"They seemed to have teamed up with a partner with high standing," said mining analyst Michael Fowler of brokerage Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion.
"This should clear up most of the (ownership) claims that are out there."
Merukh told Reuters in Jakarta on Monday that he was optimistic a deal would be reached in November.
But Bre-X's hold on the Busang discovery is shrinking as it works out its problems, said Ing.
He said Bre-X will probably have to give away another slice of the deposit to Merukh and his Australian supporters, Golden Valley Mines NL.
"Slowly and salami-like, Bre-X is getting cut back," said Ing.
Officials at Bre-X did not return phone calls to discuss details of the alliance.
Russia, dramatically changing its approach to foreign investment in its huge oil sector, said on Monday that new domestic companies, not Western majors, would be given the upper hand in future billion-dollar energy deals.
Vladimir Tumarkin, chief spokesman for Rosneft, the state oil holding company which is being privatised and the state's agent in production-sharing deals, said the days of foreign oil firms winning majority stakes to tap Russian reserves were over.
"We have a new approach," Tumarkin said. "We do not wish to repeat the so-called mistakes of earlier deals, when majority stakes went to foreign companies and Russia was left out."
He told Reuters he was referring to three, high-profile deals with Western and Japanese oil investors off Russia's Far Eastern island of Sakhalin -- deals in which Russian equity and ownership play a relatively minor role.
As a test of the new approach to Western oil investors, he said Amoco Corp, Exxon and Texaco of the United States, Total SA of France and Norsk Hydro ASA of Norway -- all bidders in a recent tender to develop reserves in Timan-Pechora -- would be asked to form a consortium and to give at least a 50 percent stake to Russian companies.
The companies had bid, some individually, some together, to develop up to 200 million tonnes of crude oil in the Khoreiverskaya Basin in oil-rich northern Timan-Pechora.
"The philosophy behind investing in Russian oil has changed," Tumarkin said, adding that Rosneft would hold talks with the companies next week.
Foreign oil investors are already wondering about the extent to which Moscow truly wants outside help in developing reserves in Russia, the world's third largest crude oil producer.
Lots of competitive investment dollars have gone to energy-rich Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, where deals have got off the ground faster and more smoothly.
But while Russia has said it wants to turn around its flagging oil sector, where output has declined by 46 percent since the mid-1980s, its newly-privatised oil companies may not be able to carry the banner.
"The question is, do the Russian companies have the financing for all this," said oil analyst James Bunch at Renaissance Capital in Moscow.
Some of Russia's vertically-integrated oil companies have the makings of future stars, with savvy management and reserves that put them in the world's big league. But many of them are weighed down by non-payments and corporate taxes that leave them little free cash to invest.
"I don't think the size of stakes (in production-sharing contracts) makes that much difference to Western companies -- what is important is the economics of the deal," said oil and gas analyst Stuart Amor of CS First Boston in London.
He said it was doubtful whether Russian companies could find the money needed in the near-term to work with foreign investors and that crude oil output levels were, as a result, unlikely to rise significantly.
U.S. energy companies have invested less than $1 billion of the $60 billion they have said they plan to commit to Russian oil deals, complaining of political and legal risk.
Prominent projects -- including the $40 billion international Timan Pechora Company deal, and Amoco's $50 billion plan with Russian oil group YUKOS to tap Priobsk reserves -- are beset by quibbles with the Russians over equity stakes, contributions, and asset valuations.
"They're obviously not going to like it," said one Western analyst of Russia's new approach. "But I don't know if it will drive them out."
Japan Airlines (JAL) is expanding its new express cargo service called "J Speed" to meet rising demand for rapid deliveries throughout Asia, a JAL spokesman told Reuters.
The recently introduced system guarantees delivery for shippers facing urgent deadlines on high volume cargo routes and also offers late acceptance at the departure airport and early delivery, he added in a statement.
Next on the J Speed network is a proposed service from Bangkok to Tokyo with plans for a gradual expansion over JAL's entire international network, JAL says.
Kazuto Yamamoto, JAL's assistant vice president, international sales and marketing department for freight and mail said he had high hopes for the new service which aims to boost high-yield cargo sales on key Asian routes.
"There is great potential on certain routes and we're looking closely at future expansion in the near future," he told Reuters.
The busy Tokyo Narita - Manila sector was chosen for the J Speed launch. With average annual growth in the Japan-Philippines market over the past three years of 50 per cent, JAL said there is an increasing need for an express service.
The flag carrier said there is usually a two hour deadline before departure from Japan while some regular cargo has to be accepted the day before.
J Speed cargo is accepted up to an hour before take off and, because the air waybill is faxed to Manila, the cargo is cleared through customs before the flight arrives, the airline says.
JAL said customers are prepared to pay a premium price.
"Yes, there is clear demand for this service on busy routes - from Narita to Manila and from Jakarta and Singapore to Japan. Shippers are prepared extra for the "on board" guarantee. The rates vary in each market," Yamamoto said.
The service has now been extended from Singapore and Jakarta to Japan. JAL also said it plans a return service soon from Japan to Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok and is also studying a service to Singapore.
JAL insists J Speed is a response to customer demand and not a competitive response to aggressive marketing by U.S. carriers.
"United Parcel Service and Federal Express Corp have many cargo products and services including door to door small package operations. J Speed is not such a small package service. It is an airport to airport guaranteed on board service featuring the latest acceptance of shipments at airport of departure with rapid clearance and delivery to consignees' agents at airport of arrival," Yamamoto said.
Typical shipments include high technology components but JAL says some cargoes are ineligible - valuables and fresh produce cannot use J Speed. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
Hong Kong Dragon Airlines (Dragonair) is increasing its flights to Sendai in Japan from October 29 to six a week from the present four, the carrier's chief operating officer Philip Chen said in a statement.
"Our services to Hiroshima and Sendai are a good example of how Dragonair is spreading out and serving the region. Since we started Hiroshima in 1992 and Sendai in 1993 both have been very successful and we are increasing frequencies on both these routes to cope with demand," he added
One of Dragonair's current fleet of seven Airbus Industrie A320 will be used for the extra frequency, a spokeswoman added.
On October 24, Airbus said Dragonair had signed a contract an order for two more A320s, plus options for five others along with the lease of another Airbus A330-300.
The new planes will be used to cope with further route expansion to China and other Asian destinations, especially when Hong Kong's new round the clock airport opens in 18 months time, industry sources said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
Heavy losses in metals trading by a young employee at big Chinese conglomerate CITIC showed striking similarities to Nick Leeson's deals that humbled Barings Bank, a top CITIC official said.
CITIC -- the China International Trust and Investment Corp -- had learned a bitter lesson from the 1994 losses and had stepped up its internal controls, group executive director Chang Zhenming said in an interview.
"There were a lot of similarities," Chang said of the CITIC and Barings episodes.
"We realised the seriousness of risk," he said.
CITIC has gained a reputation of being one of China's best run companies, expanding its operations to power, telecommunications, banking and real estate. It is probably best known for its Hong Kong-listed unit, CITIC Pacific.
Its big losses in 1994 were all the more surprising to many foreign businessmen.
The key figure in CITIC's trading was Chen Tongsheng, in his early 30's, who worked at the CITIC Shanghai office.
Like Leeson, who was 28 when his big losses on Singapore's SIMEX exchange emerged, Chen was not a university graduate.
He had worked his way through to his trading position, taking a post as a bank clerk after finishing high school.
Also like Leeson, he is now in jail -- along with his supervisor, the former president of the Shanghai operation.
"Not only was the background of the trader similar (to Leeson) but so were the trading methods as well."
Chang said that losses stemmed from unauthorised trades on the London Metals Exchange, and that broker credits compounded the problem.
"He didn't have any money. He used LME broker credits," said Chang of the Shanghai trader.
Asked if special accounts were used to hide losses -- as in the Barings case - Chang said: "You could say it was exactly the same."
Auditors were also unable to make sense of the trading accounts, he added.
But unlike Barings, CITIC managed to survive the losses, which were about $40 million compared to Leeson's, which neared $1.4 billion.
Chang said the losses still nearly bankrupted the CITIC Shanghai operations.
"We have stepped up our internal controls," he said, adding that other prominent cases - such as Sumitomo's copper trading losses -- had been instructive in reducing future risk.
CITIC's subsidiaries are no longer allowed to conduct operations unrelated to their core activities.
CITIC has also stopped all commodities trading on foreign markets, in line with a central government directive.
Asked if the company might return to the market, Chang said this was unlikely in the near future.
Korean Air Ltd (KAL) said there was an 8.4 percent rise in the amount of cargo by weight on both domestic and international flights during July compared with the same month last year and in August there was a 6.3 percent increase.
However there was a 2.6 percent drop in July's cargo load factor and a 2.4 percent fall during August, the KAL statistics show.
 Period	  AFTK    '95     Pct chge   Weight   95    Pct
chge
July Intl
 One month	 560	512    9.4	  62	57    8.8
 Cumulative    3,641    3,217   13.2	 397     367    8.2
Domestic
 One month	  16	 12   28.1	  17	15   13.3
 Cumulative	 99	 88   13.6	 130     119    9.2
Total
 One month	 576	524    9.8	  79	72    9.7
 Cumulative    3,740    3,300   13.2	 527     486    8.4
August Intl
 One month	 547	483   13.4	  60	55    9.1
 Cumulative    4,188    3,699   13.2	 457     422    8.3
Domestic
 One month	  16	 12   25.1	  16	16    0.0
 Cumulative	115	100   15.0	 146     135    8.1
Total
 One month	 563     495    13.7	  76	71    7.0
 Cumulative    4,303   3,799    13.3	 603     557    6.3
 Period	    FTK    '95     Pct chge   Weight   '95   Pct
chge
July Intl
 One month	 419     380    10.1	  75	74    0.5
 Cumulative    2,693   2,465     9.3	  74	76   -2.7
Domestic
 One month	   6	 5    12.0	  36	41   -5.1
 Cumulative	 46	41    10.2	  46	47   -1.4
Total
 One month	 424     386    10.1	  73	74    0.2
 Cumulative    2,739   2,507     9.3	  73	76   -2.6
August Intl
 One month	 411     366   12.3	   75	76   -0.7
 Cumulative    3,104   2,831    9.7	   74	77   -2.4
Domestic
 One month	   6	 5    2.2	   36	43   -7.9
 Cumulative	 51	47    9.3	   44	47   -2.3
Total
 One month	 416     371   12.2	   74	75   -1.0
 Cumulative    3,155   2,878    9.6	   73	76   -2.4
KAL's statistics also show a 9.6 percent rise in the number of international and domestic passengers carried 1.341.400 this year from 1,224,200 last July. In August there was a nine percent increase to 1,580,000 from 1,439,200.
AFTK &amp; FTK unit: 1,000,000 ton.km. Cargo weight unit:1,000 ton.
-  Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Indonesia's nascent funds industry will remain dormant until the government steps in and provides a boost, experts attending a mutual fund conference said on Monday.
"There needs to be somebody giving them a push. The push can come not just from banks, not just from private institutions, but from the government," said Venkatagiri Mudeliar, deputy general manager of Dresdner Thornton Asset Management in Singapore.
Despite its obvious promise, Indonesia's mutual funds industry faces substantial obstacles, including unbeatable returns from bank deposits offering up to 17 percent per annum.
One speaker said that more than 60 percent of pension fund assets valued at US$2.4 billion were held in bank deposits. Seven newly-established mutual funds with assets of about US$642 million were similarly invested.
Among recommended measures at the conference were tax benefits for mutual fund investors, permission to allow domestic savings to flow offshore and a major educational drive.
Felia Salim, director of the Jakarta Stock Exchange, told the conference that government discussions to provide a tax break to mutual fund investors were underway, and more than 40 percent of the bourse's budget for 1997 was dedicated to educating the public about the benefits of mutual fund investment.
But delegates said with international investment prohibited and foreign investment restrictions of 49 percent, incentives to setting up investment management subsidiaries in Indonesia were limited despite the industry's promise.
"Internationally, it's always a nervous position for a foreign fund manager to be in when it appears investment is a one-way street," said Paul Smith, managing director at the Bank of Bermuda in Hong Kong.
Foreign fund managers would be more likely to establish fund management subsidiaries in Indonesia if there were opportunities to manage Indonesian money offshore, he said.
"It's a hard call to make for a foreign fund manager to come down here and set up shop just to manage Indonesian domestic mutual fund business, which at the moment is a very small pie," Smith said.
Mudeliar said Indonesia is clearly committed to speeding up the establishment of its financial infrastructure, and catching up with its more developed Southeast Asian neighbours.
"Yes, they have lost out for a number of years but as you know nowadays knowledge is so freely available that they don't have to wait a full 15 years or 20 years," Mudeliar said.
"(They can make a) quantum leap in another five years. They can buy expertise, they can buy information ... I think Indonesia will be something to reckon with in the next 10 years."
-- Jakarta Newsroom
Work will start on October 30 on Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd's new HK$1.6 billion headquarters at Chek Lap Kok, the main contractor, Dragages et Travaux Publics (HK) Ltd, said in a statement.
The subsidiary of the French, Bouygues Group said the work includes a 10-storey office building, a 333 room staff complex, a three-storey workshop and stores building and a three storey leisure centre with a total floor area of 102,630 square metres.
The new building is scheduled to be completed in stages from January 1998 with an overall construction period of 22 months, the statement added.
The new airport at Chek Lap Kok is due to open in April 1998.
Dragages said it is also building the new base maintenance facility for Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company Limited (HAECO) and Cathay Pacific's new flight kitchen at the Chek Lap Kok.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
The picture for personal computer demand in the third quarter of 1996 was either half-empty or half-full, depending on which of two market research firms' data is used.
Technology market research firm International Data Corp. said Monday that growth in U.S. PC shipments from a year ago slackened to 12 percent, "the slowest pace in five years," based on its preliminary third-quarter statistics.
A second firm, Dataquest, said PC makers "prospered" in the third quarter as worldwide shipments rose 16.3 percent from the same period a year ago.
The conflicting conclusions reflect IDC's focus on the U.S. market, which accounts for a substantial majority of world PC demand, versus Dataquest's emphasis on overall global shipments.
"We're making mountains out of molehillls," Dataquest PC analyst Kimball Brown said of concerns that PC growth may be slowing. "The point here is that we had a strong PC market all year ... What other market of this size grows at 20 percent?"
Reflecting a more sombre view of the industry's recent performance, IDC analyst Eric Lewis said "PC vendors are being extra careful this year, after getting burned by excess inventory at the end of 1995."
However, the researchers agreed on which companies ended up as winners and losers in the third period.
They said Compaq Computer Corp. once again led in shipments of PCs both worldwide and in the United States. At the same time, Apple Computer Inc. and the combined force of Packard Bell Inc. and NEC Corp. saw declines, compared with very strong year-ago periods.
Both research firms agreed that fourth quarter PC shipments are likely to pick up the pace over the third quarter, boosting the totals for the full year.
IDC forecast that worldwide personal computer shipments will grow 18.5 percent for 1996 as a whole, while Dataquest projects the global PC market will grow by 19.7 percent.
Underlying the dispute over the health of the current market is a comparison with last year's banner year, viewed by analysts as a historic upswing in demand that is unlikely to be repeated anytime soon.
IDC reckoned that worldwide PC shipments grew 23.8 percent in 1995, while Dataquest put the figure at 24.7 percent.
Dataquest said U.S. PC shipments rose 12.5 percent during the third quarter, or roughly the same level as reported by International Data.
IDC said quarterly unit shipments rose 16 percent worldwide, down slightly from what Dataquest reported.
PC makers showed greater caution in the latest third quarter, compared with the same period a year ago, IDC said.
In the 1995 third quarter, a number of vendors, especially Apple and Packard Bell, had shipped large quantities of PCs to retailers in anticipation of strong holiday sales.
That jump led to an over-supply of inventory that hurt the industry late last year and resulted in greater caution this time around. PC vendors now appear to be holding back on shipments while they gauge holiday buyers' demand, IDC said.
In the upcoming quarter, IDC's Lewis predicted, "Shipments will pick up as we move through the fourth quarter, leading to a happy holiday season for the PC industry."
Though he too is optimistic about fourth quarter market growth, Dataquest's Brown cautioned that "Every year it gets tougher to maintain 20 percent annual growth."
Drugstore giant Revco D.S. Inc. said Monday it agreed to buy regional chain Big B Inc. in a sweetened takeover valued at $380 million.
The transaction calls for Twinsburg, Ohio-based Revco to buy all outstanding shares of Big B common stock for $17.25 per share, up from Revco's unsolicited offer of $15 per share, which Big B rejected last month.
"We are very excited about the combination of Revco and Big B. I am pleased we were able to bring this process to a fast and successful conclusion," said Dwayne Hoven, president and chief executive officer of Revco.
The deal will combine the nation's second- and 10th-largest drug store chains.
The companies said Big B's board of directors unanimously approved the latest offer and recommended that Big B shareholders tender their shares.
The sale of Bessemer, Ala.-based Big B marks the latest acquisition in the rapidly consolidating drugstore industry. Rite Aid Corp. signed an agreement this month to buy West Coast chain Thrifty PayLess Inc. for $1.4 billion, and Thrift Drug Inc., a unit of J.C. Penney Co. Inc., agreed in August to buy Fay's Inc. for about $285 million.
Although Big B rejected the initial offer, its stock recently had been trading at about $16 per share on views that the company would be sold for more than Revco's original $15 per share offer.
Revco's stock traded up 12.5 cents at $29.50 a share on the New York Stock Exchange. Big B's shares were at $17, up 43.75 cents, in afternoon trading on Nasdaq.
"With Revco's financial resources, technological expertise and marketing and sales capability, we can together grow our combined company's customer base and increase our sales potential. Among other efficiencies, this combination will allow the combined company to spread costs over a larger base of stores," Hoven said.
Big B said it will work with Revco to ensure a smooth transition.
Like many other regional drugstore chains, Big B has been fighting problems that have accompanied the burgeoning clout of managed health care companies and huge discount retailers. It has been hurt by deteriorating profit margins and sales and its earnings have disappointed Wall Street.
Industry experts say Revco is well-placed to capture profits in the Southeast by taking advantage of Big B's underused distribution centre and closing overlapping stores in Georgia.
"Revco will be able to integrate Big B really quickly," said Eric Bosshard of Midwest Research-Maxus Group.
Big B's profit margins began to tumble last year due to difficulty in calculating the impact of lower prescription prices paid by managed care providers. Although it invested heaviliy in a new computer system to better track profit margins, people familiar with the company have said its newly expanded distribution centre is operating at only 60 percent of capacity.
Analysts said one of Revco's first steps will be to assess store overlap, especially in Georgia, where Revco operates 180 stores and Big B has 160 stores.
"Once they get the distribution and the stores together, it will be a real profit centre for Revco," said John Strauss, of investment advisory firm Strauss Financial Group.
Revco also said it will revise and extend its tender offer for Big B shares until Nov 15. The offer had been set to expire Monday.
The two companies also said all litigation between them will be withdrawn.
After some haggling about terms, Revco earlier this month signed a confidentiality agreement with Big B, took a peek at its books and apparently liked what it saw.
The Big B board met over the weekend and accepted the new and higher offer from Revco. Details of other offers were not immediately known, although Eckerd Corp. was viewed as a potential bidder.
Eckerd declined to comment.
Big B, Inc. operates 397 units throughout the Southeastern United States.
Revco operates 2,202 stores in 14 contiguous Midwestern, Southeastern and Eastern states.
The deal with Big B was seen as a significant acquisition for Revco, which earlier this year was involved in a failed transaction with Rite Aid. The two companies had signed a pact for Rite Aid to buy Revco for $1.8 billion, but the deal collapsed after regulators expressed concern that the union would raise consumer prices.
Revco D.S. Inc is expected to leverage its size and experience to overcome the host of problems that pushed regional drugstore chain Big B Inc into a deal with the Ohio-based drugstore giant.
Industry experts said Revco is well-placed to capture profits in the southeast by taking advantage of Big B's underused distribution center and closing overlapping stores in Georgia.
"Revco will be able to integrate Big B really quickly," said Eric Bosshard of Midwest Research-Maxus Group.  
The two companies on Monday said that Big B had accepted a sweetened acquisition offer from Revco in a cash transaction valued at $380 million, or $17.25 per share.
It is the latest in a string of recent acquisitions in the drugstore industry. Just two weeks ago, Rite Aid Corp agreed to buy West Coast-based Thrifty PayLess Inc for $1.4 billion.
Big B initially fought a takeover by Revco, rejecting its unsolicited bid of $15 per share last month and inviting interested parties to submit formal offers.  
Like many other regional drugstores, Big B was burdened by problems that have accompanied the burgeoning clout of managed health care and huge discount retailers.
Big B's profit margins began to tumble last year due to difficulty in calculating the impact of lower prescription prices paid by managed care providers. Although it invested heaviliy in a new computer system to better track profit margins, people familiar with the company have said its newly-expanded distribution center is operating at only 60 percent of capacity.  
One of its first steps will be to assess store overlap, especially in Georgia where Revco operates 180 stores and Big B has 160 stores.
"Once they get the distribution and the stores together, it will be a real profit center for Revco," said John Strauss of investment advisory firm Strauss Financial Group.
Revco has said that the acquisition will boost its earnings in the first year of the combination.
After some haggling about terms, Revco signed a confidentiality agreement, took a peek at Big B's books and apparently liked what it saw.  
The Big B board met over the weekend and accepted the new and higher offer from Revco. Details of other offers were not immediately known, although Eckerd Corp was viewed as a potential bidder.
Eckerd declined to comment.
Revco's expanded southeast presence is expected to lead to heightened competition with Eckerd, CVS, a unit of Melville Corp, and Thrift Drugs, a unit of J.C. Penney Co .
The deal with Big B was seen as a significant acquisition for Revco which earlier this year was involved in a failed transaction with Rite Aid. The two companies had signed a pact for Rite Aid to buy Revco for $1.8 billion, but the deal collapsed after regulators expressed concern that the union would raise consumer prices.
The planned sale of state-owned Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo Electronics has whipped up a storm of protest, which on Monday drove down shares in the Korean company's French partner Lagardere Groupe.
Lagardere shares closed nearly seven-percent lower on Monday on investor worries about the backlash of the Thomson sale that risks clouding the outlook for future French privatisations.
French opposition parties, labour unions and most French people, according to polls, are unhappy with the government's plan to sell Thomson SA, the world's fourth biggest television set maker and a leading defence group, to Lagardere and Daewoo for a symbolic one franc.
Thomson Multimedia workers protested against the deal on Friday and plan a demonstration in November against what they have likened to an enforced "fire sale."
The mounting opposition and the strongly nationalist tone, could augur badly for foreign buyer interest in future privatisations as the government prepares to sell insurer GAN, Credit Lyonnais and Air France.
The backlash also took the steam out of a rally in shares in Lagardere, which had risen as much as 32 percent after the government announced on October 16 that it had selected it over rival Alcatel Alsthom to buy Thomson.
Thomson has a 58-percent stake in defence group Thomson-CSF and 100-percent of Thomson Multimedia (TMM), a leader in new digital images technology.
"Lagardere is down because of the recent news articles that put in doubt the Thomson deal," a dealer said.
French Finance Minister Jean Arthuis said on Monday the procedure followed by the government was "sheltered from all politicial criticism."
The government tilted toward Lagardere's bid because of the defense connection. Lagardere plans to merge its Matra unit with Thomson-CSF and sell TMM to Daewoo -- also for one franc.
"The public authorities focused on the military aspect of the Thomson deal. They neglected the civilian (consumer electronics) aspect...it's now sticking in their throats," said the newsletter La Lettre de l'Expansion.
A survey of 1,004 voters published by the newspaper La Tribune found 72 percent disapproved of the sale price, saying it did not reflect TMM's value. Only 12 percent agreed with the government that the price was right given the group's debts.
TMM is saddled with the bulk of Thomson's debt, expected to reach 28 billion francs ($5.44 billion) by the end of the year.
Loser Alcatel broke its silence on Friday and said it would not have sold control of TMM to a foreign group but put together a 50-50 joint venture with an Asian partner.
"This new group would have formed the basis of a global industrial project in which French interests would have been solidly represented," Alcatel said in a statement.
The deal hinges on the approvals of France's Privatisation Commission and the European Commission, and speculation is rising that the privatisation commission -- which had been expected to make only a procedural review -- may turn into a more serious stumbling block.
The commission, a body of seven independent experts chaired by Pierre Laurent, has the mandate to ensure that any deal reflects the value of the company.
"Of course, they can disagree with the government," a Finance Ministry official said. "If they agree, the deal can go ahead. If they disagree, the privatisation procedure has to be started over again," he added.
($1=5.151 French Franc)
A unit of CalEnergy Co., a fast-growing, Nebraska-based energy company, Monday launched a $1.2 billion takeover bid for British regional utility Northern Electric Plc, which promptly rejected the unsolicited offer.
The offer was the second for Northern Electric in just over a year and the fourth for a British power company by a U.S. utility. Industry analysts said Northern Electric might end up agreeing to a takeover if it could extract a higher price.
Omaha, Neb.-based CalEnergy, through its 70 percent-owned CE Electric unit, said it would pay 630 British pence ($10.06) for each common share and 103 pence ($1.64) for each preferred share of Northern Electric, valuing the company at about $1.23 billion. The U.S.-based construction and mining company Peter Kiewit Sons owns the other 30 percent of CE Electric.
Newcastle-based Northern Electric successfully fended off a hostile bid last year from Trafalgar House, now owned by Sweden's Kvaerner, by offering a special package worth 560 million pounds ($894 million) for shareholders.
"Our strategy is to become a leading global provider of a full range of energy services," CalEnergy Chairman David Sokol said in a statement announcing the offer.
Sokol's company has invested in geothermal and other energy projects at home and in Indonesia and the Philippines in recent years. Its core operations are in California, New York and Texas, and the bid for Northern Electric is a major move outside the U.S. market.
U.S. utilities, faced with slow growth and deregulation in their local markets, have been merging in the United States and investing abroad as they seek to grow.
Sokol said Northern Electric had distribution and supply know-how that would complement CalEnergy's production capacity, while its size was "very manageable."
"They are the smallest regional electricity company and that means that you can get them cheaper," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
"We will see an agreed bid eventually," said Philip Hollobone at brokers Williams de Broe, who said CE Electric might eventually raise its price to secure agreement from Northern's board of directors.
In its statement rejecting the bid, Northern Electric said that in talks through Sunday, CE Electric had contemplated offering about 700 pence ($11.17) per Northern Electric share.
"Northern Electric is clearly saying you can have us for 700 pence per share," said one sector analyst who asked not to be identified.
CE Electric, which bought a 12.7 percent stake in Northern in the open market, said that it never suggested "any intent to value the company at 'around 700 pence per share' or even anywhere close to this figure."
Sokol said he felt the offer was "a very full price," adding that CE Electric had sought a merger agreement with Northern Electric but "the only area we could not agree on was value."
Some analysts said Northern Electric's weak balance sheet would limit what CE Electric would bid and that it might be hoping to attract another bidder. The shareholder package paid to fend off Trafalgar House left it heavily in debt.
Northern Electric stock jumped 131 pence ($2.09) to close at 651 pence ($10.40) after CE Electric had managed to buy its 12.72 percent stake at the offered price earlier in the session.
CalEnergy announced in August that it bought three gas-fired cogeneration plants in Texas, Pennsylvania and New York for $226 million from Falcon Seaboard Resources Inc., a closely held energy company.
General Motors Co. and the United Auto Workers recessed contract negotiations early Monday, several hours after their existing contract expired, but union officials said talks were likely to resume later in the day.
Union members continued working despite the impasse and UAW President Stephen Yokich said the union and GM officials planned to resume their talks, possibly later Monday.
Bargaining between the two sides recessed about 3 a.m. EST after the contract expired. The pact covers 215,000 UAW members who work at GM's U.S. facilities.
At a news conference Monday, Yokich made no mention of possible selective strikes at some GM plants, as had been speculated Sunday.
"We hope that everyone understands that we can't do it in the street. It isn't weakness -- we have to do it at the bargaining table," he said.
Yokich said a small number of bargainers may return to GM later Monday. Negotiators talked for about 17 hours Sunday and early Monday morning trying to reach a new agreement.
In a written statement in response to Yokich's comments, GM vice president of personnel Gerald Knechtel said the talks have been constructive.
"We have had open and constructive dialogue with the UAW since these talks began and have made significant progress on many of the issues," Knechtel said.
The UAW has already reached a new three-year contract with Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. covering about 171,000 UAW members in the United States.
Ford and Chrysler both agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current UAW workforces. Forcing GM to accept that pattern has been a sticking point for the UAW. The world's largest automaker has said it needs to shed about 12 North American parts plants that it says are uncompetitive, and wants to exclude those plants from any job guarantee pledges.
There was speculation Sunday the UAW may hit GM with selective strikes at plants that build GM's high-profit full-size pickup trucks and sport/utility vehicles, including facilities in Janesville, Wis., Pontiac and Flint, Mich., and Fort Wayne, Ind.
Yokich, who said he is disappointed with the progress of the talks, said some of the UAW's locals have "sticky" issues that are not yet resolved.
"We decided that some of these locals need to work on these issues probably before we can ever get a settlement," he said, declining to identify the locals.
The previous national labor agreement expired Sept. 14, but the UAW said in September it would extend the contract. Last week Yokich said the contract extension for GM would end at midnight Sunday.
Yokich defended his tactics against critics who say the union, which is facing a shrinking membership base, has not been tough enough on the Big Three automakers, whose profits and sales are both increasing.
GM has 12 parts plants that it considers uncompetitive and wants to exclude several of those facilities from the job guarantee, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that it wants to sell.
GM's stock slipped 12.5 cents to $54 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
A midnight Sunday strike deadline for General Motors Corp expired without a walkout as talks between the car maker and the United Auto Workers continued into the early morning hours on Monday.
A GM spokesman declined to provide further details of the negotiations, saying the automaker would make a more detailed statement later on Monday morning.
"They're still on the job," said Norman Harp, a union commiteeman for UAW Local 14 at GM's Toledo, Ohio, transmission plant, which started its third shift shortly before midnight Sunday.
"The deadline's here and gone and they're still talking," Harp said of the negotiators at GM's Detroit headquarters.
Local UAW officials at other GM plants also said they were told to stand by for further instructions.
The UAW cancelled its national contract covering 215,000 GM hourly workers one minute before midnight Sunday in a move to increase pressure on GM for tentative agreement.
However, there was speculation among UAW officials late Sunday that instead of a national strike, the union could strike selected plants that make GM's high-profit light trucks. Top on the list of such facilities were GM's Janesville, Wis., plant, which makes Chevrolet Tahoe and GMC Yukon and Suburban full-size sport/utility vehicles, and the Pontiac, Mich., plant, which makes GM's popular full-size pickup trucks with extended cabs.
A selective strike at those facilities would inflict pain on GM while minimizing the drain on the UAW's strike fund, which pays each UAW worker $150 a week. It also would blunt some of the political fallout from a massive strike close to the U.S. presidential election.
UAW officials say the two sides remain at odds over the union's demand that GM follow the pattern set at Ford Motor Co and Chrysler Corp by guaranteeing employment for 95 percent of its current UAW workforce.
GM, which has 12 parts plants that it considers uncompetitive, wants to exclude several of those facilities from the guarantee, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that it wants to sell.
In settling the Canadian strike last week, GM was able to secure a deal that included the selling of two parts plants in Windsor and Oshawa, Ontario and retained some flexibility to outsource more products. However, GM agreed to guarantee pensions for workers in the two plants or up to nine years and to allow them to transfer back to jobs that open up in other GM facilities.
GM still has more than 20,000 workers in the United States and Mexico idled because of lingering parts shortages associated with the Canadian strike.
General Motors Corp. workers remained on the job without a contract Monday as United Auto Workers President Stephen Yokich refrained -- for now -- from calling a strike against the auto giant.
Negotiations on a new national labor contract covering GM's 215,000 UAW hourly workers recessed early Monday after a midnight strike deadline passed. Yokich said some bargainers would resume talks later in the day.
"The only place you can settle these agreements is at the bargaining table," Yokich told a news conference early Monday. "We feel that with or without a contract in place, we can continue (working). It's open-ended."
The union plans to bring its plant-level leaders to Detroit for a meeting on the talks on Saturday, a move that typically comes after a tentative agreement is reached.
Although Yokich played down the threat of a strike on Monday, he said some of the more than 100 local unions at GM plants may resort to walkouts unless the automaker meets union demands in separate negtiations for local labor agreements.
The local talks have become a sticking point for the national negotiations, Yokich said, because only a few of the locals have signed agreements with GM.
The local pacts typically cover plant-specific issues such as work rules and health and safety standards, while the national contract covers wages, benefits, job security and other common issues.
"We decided that some of these locals need to work on these issues probably before we can ever get a settlement," Yokich said, declining to identify specific plants or issues.
Nevertheless, he urged anxious UAW members who watched their Canadian counterparts strike for three weeks this month to stay on the job for the time being.
"We hope that everyone understands that we can't do it in the street. It isn't weakness -- we have to do it at the bargaining table," he said.
Negotiations at GM's headquarters building here continued for 17 hours until about 2 a.m. EST on Monday, when bargainers began leaving, carrying their overnight bags.
Although some talks were scheduled to resume Monday afternoon, Yokich and other top UAW officers do not plan to return to the bargaining table until Tuesday morning.
In a written statement in response to Yokich's comments, GM Vice President of Personnel Gerald Knechtel said the talks have been constructive.
"We have had open and constructive dialogue with the UAW since these talks began and have made significant progress on many of the issues," Knechtel said.
Yokich chided GM's hard-headed negotiating style as "typical GM," and noted that the union has consistently had a better relationship with Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp.
The UAW wants GM to agree to the same job guarantees granted by Ford and Chrysler, which call for the two companies to guarantee employment for 95 percent of their combined 171,000 UAW members in the United States.
GM has 12 North American parts plants that it considers uncompetitive and wants to exclude several of those facilities from the job guarantee pledges, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that it wants to sell.
Although GM is viewed as the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, Yokich insisted that the auto giant can live with the pattern.
"I think Ford and Chrysler understood when we said we're preparing ourselves and our union to enter the 21st Century with you as partners in the corporation," he said. "I'm not too sure GM understands that. They've always been late bloomers. Maybe they'll get the message sooner or later."
The UAW's strike threat comes less than a week after GM settled a 20-day strike by the independent Canadian Auto Workers union. The CAW struck over many of the same issues -- job security and shifting jobs to outside suppliers.
UAW Vice President Richard Shoemaker said the U.S. union did not feel pressure to get the exact same provisions that GM agreed to in Canada.
GM's stock slipped 12.5 cents to $54 in early afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
CalEnergy of the U.S. threw British regional electricity company Northern Electric its second bid challenge in just over a year on Monday with a $1.225 billion offer and analysts said it may succumb.
"We will see an agreed bid eventually," said Philip Hollobone at Williams de Broe, who said the price could rise to 650-657 pence per share from the current 630 pence offer.
CE Electric, jointly owned by CalEnergy with 70 percent and U.S.-based construction, mining and telecoms group Peter Kiewit Sons with 30 percent, said on Monday it would pay 630 pence each for the ordinary shares of Northern Electric.
The deal also offers 103 pence per preference share. CE Electric pounced on 12.72 percent of Northern at the bid price of 630 pence as the shares vacillated between a peak of 645 pence and a low of 609.75 pence, trading up 120 pence at 640 by 1320 GMT.
Northern Electric successfully fended off a hostile bid last year from Trafalgar House, now owned by Sweden's Kvaerner, offering the carrot of a special package worth 560 million pounds ($894 million) for shareholders.
That has left its balance sheet too weak to squeeze a substantially higher bid, according to Hollobone.
CalEnergy chairman David Sokol said he felt the offer was "a very full price," adding that CE Electric had sought to agree a bid with Northern Electric but "the only area we could not agree on was value."
A rash of bids last year in the electricity sector were made at levels of around 14 times earnings, according to Andrew Stone, analyst at Daiwa, but CE Electric's price values Northern at a ratio of about 10.5.
"There might well be some upside, but I don't think we're likely to see the 14 times earnings figure," Stone added.
CalEnergy's Sokol said CE Electric had targeted Northern Electric, based in north-east England, because it wanted to add distribution and supply to its existing skill base of generation while the previous bid had made information on the regional electricity company more accessible.
In addition, he said Northern's size was "very manageable."
"They are the smallest regional electricity company and that means that you can get them cheaper," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
Northern urged its shareholders to do nothing and said it would make a further statement later on Monday, while CalEnergy's Sokol said he hoped to secure a recommended bid.
Rumours a U.S.-based company, possibly Houston Industries or Duke Power, might bid for one of the five remaining independent British regional electricity companies sent shares surging on Friday, but Northern had been seen as one of the least attractive because of its high gearing.
East Midlands Electricity, which led Friday's climb, slipped back 9.5 pence to 555 pence, while Yorkshire Electricity added nine pence to 757 pence and Southern Electricity rose 18.5 pence to 647 pence with London Electric gained 16 pence to 600 pence.
Some analysts suggested that CE Electric might have to raise its bid to cover a 56.5 pence special dividend which Northern intends to pay as a special dividend in February.
CalEnergy is a U.S.-based power generator which uses geothermal, natural gas and hydroelectric resources and operates facilities worldwide. Total assets are $3.5 billion with a market capitalisation of $1.9 billion. ($1=.6264 Pound)
Banking analysts said on Monday they were positive on implications for Bank of Scotland in its joint venture into supermarket banking with J Sainsbury, with one analyst even upgrading his recommendation.
Others maintained their positive stances on the Scottish bank and played down the negative impact the innovative plan would have on the rest of the retail financial services sector.
"The Sainsbury move is a confirmation of Bank of Scotland's strategy of alternative distribution into England," Goldman Sachs banking analyst David Townshend said.
Goldman Sachs and BZW reiterated their positive stances on the group while SBC Warburg upgraded its recommendation on the stock to "trading buy" from "hold," market sources said.
Bank of Scotland's link with Sainsbury is seen giving the bank a boost in the British market. The move is expected to help the bank enlarge its small retail customer base in England and find a new outlet for its range of financial services, which it can sell through its excellent technological infrastructure.
Bank of Scotland's low-cost operation could mean Sainsbury's Bank could offer a better rate to depositors than customers currently get through retail store group Tesco's link with National Westminster Bank, BZW said in a research note. Tesco currently offers five percent on deposits.
But even so, analysts doubted existing banks will lose many accounts to Sainsbury's Bank, which is due to begin trading in the first half of next year.
"I don't see a material threat of switching," said Nick Collier, banking analyst at Morgan Stanley.
Analysts said there is a certain amount of inertia in the banking market and many consumers already have more than one account so they could easily take on a Sainsbury account without necessarily closing their more conventional one.
Some also noted that British banks, with already large customer bases, were addressing different problems.
A lack of customers is not the problem for Barclays or Lloyds, said Tim Sykes, banking analyst at BZW.
"These banks don't have the same need," Sykes said, "The thing they want to achieve is to sell more of their products to their existing customers."
Most British banks have moved heavily into "bancassurance" style operations in recent years, offering a wide range of lending, investment and insurance products.
Plain banks are also still seen as having an advantage in terms of the "horses for courses" argument. Analysts said many customers prefer a more traditional approach.
While telephone banking has grown quickly in popularity in recent years, for example, the vast majority of bank customers still prefer having a "normal" account although seemingly few visit their branch very regularly.
Union workers prepared to strike General Motors Corp for the second time this month Sunday night as bargainers for the company and the United Auto Workers struggled to reach a new contract agreement before a midnight deadline.
In a sign the pace of talks could be picking up, GM Chairman Jack Smith arrived at the automaker's headquarters early in the evening.
UAW members at pickup truck and sport/utility vehicle assembly plants in Pontiac, Mich. and Janesville, Wis. said picket signs had been made and strike schedules drafted.
"We don't know if we're going to work in the morning or not," said a woman answering the phone at UAW Local 95 in Janesville, who declined to give her name.
At stake is a new labor agreement for GM's 215,000 hourly UAW workers. GM employs more than half of the approximately 390,000 UAW members who work at Detroit's Big Three automakers. It is the only one of the Big Three to not have a new three-year labor contract.
Last week, the world's largest automaker settled a strike by 26,000 members of the Canadian Auto Workers union that shut down the Canadian operations and idled more than 23,000 workers at dozens of plants in the United States and Mexico.
"GM remains hopeful an agreement can be reached before the UAW's termination of the current 1993 national agreement at 11:59 p.m. tonight," GM spokesman Chuck Licari told reporters gathered at company headquarters late Sunday afternoon.
UAW spokesman Frank Joyce declined to comment on the talks. UAW President Stephen Yokich Friday said he is not optimistic a deal can be reached by the deadline.
Bargainers for UAW and GM resumed at midmorning Sunday after they adjourned Saturday evening. Analysts speculated that negotiators could be wrangling over contract language that would dictate how many workers GM is obligated to guarantee jobs for.
Bowing to UAW concerns over job security, both Ford and Chrysler have agreed to new contracts that promise to keep 95 percent of their current UAW hourly workforces except in the event of a severe industry downturn.
"I think if there's a sticking point that may be it," said Dale Brickner, a labor expert at the Michigan State University. "GM may be pushing to get that figure farther down than the UAW may be comfortable living with."
GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, is trying to shed 12 unprofitable parts plants, and wants to exclude certain component facilities from the employment guarantee. Those include a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich.
In settling a 20-day strike by the Canadian Auto Workers union last week, GM was able to secure a deal that included the selling of two parts plants and flexibility to outsource Yokich has not indicated what he will do after once the contract extension expires at midnight Sunday. Yokich on Friday set the Sunday deadline, but did not actually threaten a strike. Workers have been told to stay on the job until they hear otherwise.
However, there was speculation Sunday the UAW could mount a plant-specific strike if enough progress has not been met by the deadline Sunday. By hitting light truck plants such as the Janesville facility that makes Tahoe and Yukon full size sport/utilities, the union could hurt the sale of some of GM's most profitable products at a time it is trying to bounce back from the Canadian strike.
GM's U.S. operations continue to respond to the 20-day CAW strike. The more than 6,600 UAW members at GM's Buick City complex have been told not to report Monday. At the same time, GM is running radio ads telling first-shift workers at its Hamtramck assembly plant to report to work Monday.
French Finance Minister Jean Arthuis said on Monday the procedure followed in the planned sale of Thomson SA was beyond criticism.
France's independent privatisation commission, however, always had the right to block the deal, he added.
"It is my conviction that the procedure followed by the government is unassailable. The law has been respected," Arthuis told Reuters on Monday.
"The privatisation commission is an independent body. It has full authority and I cannot prejudge the decision it will take. It is sovereign," he said.
Thomson's planned privatisation has raised a storm of criticism in France. The opposition Socialists and Communists in the National Assembly have called for a committee of inquiry into the conditions of Thomson's privatisation.
The French privatisation commission, comprising seven "wise men", is currently assessing the value of Thomson SA and its proposed sale to Lagardere Groupe and Daewoo Electronics. The commission is expected to issue its decision early December.
Commission members are appointed by decree for five years during which they cannot hold any other function.
The commission is currently chaired by Pierre Laurent, a former section chairman at the country's highest constitutional authority, the Conseil d'Etat or State Council.
Its members are Pierre Alby, a honorary chairman of Gaz de France, Andre Blanc, Daniel Deguen, honorary chairman of bank Credit Commercial de France, Daniel Hua, honorary managing director of bank Societe Generale, Jean Serise and Jean Pineau.
The Bank of France's Francoise Pallo-Guillabert is the commission secretary general.
The commission has the task of determining the value of state assets which are being sold, and to express an opinion about the government's choice.
A spokeswoman for the Finance Ministry said that the goverment always made its preference clear to the commission but sofar has never publicly stated its preference.
In the case of Thomson, however, Arthuis judged it necessary to publish the government's preference to avoid insider dealing because both bidders, Lagardere and Alcatel Alsthom, are quoted companies.
There is only one case known where the privatisation commission did not agree with the government -- at the start of 1996 the commission opposed the sale of the state's 83.3 percent stake Radio Monte Carlo (RMC) because it considered the bids too low.
"The first thing the commission has to do is to establish the value of Thomson and see whether indeed it is worth minus 11 billion francs, as both bidders say," a ministry official said.
"After that they will have to express their opinion on the government's choice," he added.
If the privatisation commission's decision, expected by the end of the year, would be in line with the government's preference there still remain hurdles.
The European Commission in Brussels has to agree with the planned state capital injection of 11 billion francs and has to consider the competition aspects of the deal.
The planned sale of state-owned Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo Electronics has whipped up a storm of protest which on Monday drove down shares in the Korean company's French partner Lagardere Groupe.
Lagardere shares were down more than five percent at midday on investor worries about the backlash of the Thomson sale that risks clouding the outlook for future French privatisations.
French opposition parties, labour unions and most French people, according to polls, are unhappy with the government's plan to sell Thomson, the world's fourth biggest television set maker, to Lagardere and Daewoo for one franc.
Thomson Multimedia workers protested against the deal on Friday and plan a demonstration in November against what they have likened to an enforced "fire sale".
The mounting opposition, and the strongly nationalist tone, could augur badly for foreign buyer interest in future privatisations as the government prepares to sell insurer GAN, Credit Lyonnais and Air France.
The backlash also took the steam out of a rally in shares in Lagardere, which had risen as much as 32 percent after the government announced on October 16 that it had selected it over rival Alcatel Alsthom to buy Thomson Multimedia (TMM)- also a leader in the new digital technology.
"Lagardere is down because of the recent news articles that put in doubt the Thomson deal," a dealer said.
French Finance Minister Jean Arthuis said on Monday the procedure followed by the government was "sheltered from all politicial criticism".
Thomson owns 58 percent of defence firm Thomson-CSF and 100 percent of TMM.
The government tilted toward Lagardere's bid because of the defense connection. Lagardere plans to merge its Matra unit with Thomson-CSF and sell TMM to Daewoo -- also for one franc.
"The public authorities focused on the military aspect of the Thomson deal. They neglected the civilian (consumer electronics) aspect...it's now sticking in their throats," said the newsletter La Lettre de l'Expansion.
A survey of 1,004 voters published by the newspaper La Tribune found 72 percent disapproved of the sale price, saying it did not reflect TMM's value. Only 12 percent agreed with the government that the price was right given the group's debts.
TMM is saddled with the bulk of Thomson's debt, expected to reach 28 billion francs ($5.44 billion) by the end of the year.
Loser Alcatel broke its silence on Friday and said it would not have sold control of TMM to a foreign group but put together a 50-50 joint venture with an Asian partner.
"This new group would have formed the basis of a global industrial project in which French interests would have been solidly represented," Alcatel said in a statement.
The newspaper Les Echos said in an unsourced report on Monday that Alcatel had also pledged to transfer to the state any capital gain on the sale of part of TMM.
The deal hinges on the approvals of France's Privatisation Commission and the European Commission, and speculation is rising that the privatisation commission -- which had been expect to make only a procedural review -- may turn into a more serious stumbling block.
The commission, a body of seven independent experts chaired by Pierre Laurent, has the mandate to ensure that any deal reflects the value of the company.
"Of course they can disagree with the government," a Finance Ministry official said. "If they agree, the deal can go ahead. If they disagree, the privatisation procedure has to be started over again," he added.
($1=5.151 French Franc)
General Motors Co. and the United Auto Workers recessed contract negotiations early Monday, several hours after their existing contract expired, but union officials said talks were likely to resume later in the day.
Union members continued working despite the impasse and UAW President Stephen Yokich said the union and GM officials planned to resume their talks, possibly later Monday.
Bargaining between the two sides recessed about 3 a.m. EST after the contract expired. The pact covers 215,000 UAW members who work at GM's U.S. facilities.
At a news conference Monday, Yokich made no mention of possible selective strikes at some GM plants, as had been speculated Sunday.
"We hope that everyone understands that we can't do it in the street. It isn't weakness -- we have to do it at the bargaining table," he said.
Yokich said a small number of bargainers may return to GM later Monday. Negotiators talked for about 17 hours Sunday and early Monday morning trying to reach a new agreement.
In a written statement in response to Yokich's comments, GM vice president of personnel Gerald Knechtel said the talks have been constructive.
"We have had open and constructive dialogue with the UAW since these talks began and have made significant progress on many of the issues," Knechtel said.
The UAW has already reached a new three-year contract with Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. covering about 171,000 UAW members in the United States.
Ford and Chrysler both agreed to guarantee jobs for 95 percent of their current UAW workforces. Forcing GM to accept that pattern has been a sticking point for the UAW. The world's largest automaker has said it needs to shed about 12 North American parts plants that it says are uncompetitive, and wants to exclude those plants from any job guarantee pledges.
There was speculation Sunday the UAW may hit GM with selective strikes at plants that build GM's high-profit full-size pickup trucks and sport/utility vehicles, including facilities in Janesville, Wis., Pontiac and Flint, Mich., and Fort Wayne, Ind.
Yokich, who said he is disappointed with the progress of the talks, said some of the UAW's locals have "sticky" issues that are not yet resolved.
"We decided that some of these locals need to work on these issues probably before we can ever get a settlement," he said, declining to identify the locals.
The previous national labour agreement expired Sept. 14, but the UAW said in September it would extend the contract. Last week Yokich said the contract extension for GM would end at midnight Sunday.
Yokich defended his tactics against critics who say the union, which is facing a shrinking membership base, has not been tough enough on the Big Three automakers, whose profits and sales are both increasing.
GM has 12 parts plants that it considers uncompetitive and wants to exclude several of those facilities from the job guarantee, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that it wants to sell.
GM's stock slipped 12.5 cents to $54 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) took the unusual step on Monday of categorically denying a newspaper report which said it was investigating a A$24 billion merger with Britain's Standard Chartered Plc.
"ANZ advises that it is not investigating or discussing a merger with Standard Chartered Bank," ANZ said in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange just before the start of trade.
"Whilst we do not normally comment on rumours and speculation regarding mergers and acquisitions the very specific nature of the article requires this definite denial," the ANZ said in a statement.
Earlier, an ANZ spokesman had told Reuters that the report was in the category of market speculation and would not be commented on.
In its Monday edition, the Australian Financial Review reported that the two banks had engaged Goldman Sachs and Swiss Bank Corp to conduct a feasibility study into a merger "along the lines of the RTZ-CRA stock stapling".  
RTZ Corp Plc and CRA Ltd merged to become a dual-listed company and the world's biggest mining group in December last year.
"Such an alliance would make ANZ almost takeover-proof in Australia, preserving the relative independence of one of the two major banks considered most likely takeover targets after the Wallis inquiry into the financial system," the Financial Review said.  
"There are no cross-shareholdings between ANZ and Standard Chartered and the issue of 'senior partner' in a stock stapling would be expected to be significant as would government and regulatory approval of the deal," the paper said, adding that KPMG had been employed to carry out due diligence on the deal.
The bank's surprisingly specific denial came after analysts said ANZ's share price could drop sharply on the report.
The analysts said the merger as outlined in the report was unlikely to include much if any takeover premium for shareholders, meaning the premium of up to 10 percent built into the current share price would be stripped out.  
"People are saying 'What's in it for shareholders?'," BNP Equities banking analyst Linda Lyon said.
"If a merger like that looks like coming off, then the price will come off," Lyon said.
"The sort of deal we're talking about doesn't include any sort of takeover premium for shareholders," said a senior Sydney banking analyst.
"People have been buying ANZ above its true value in expectation NAB (National Australia Bank Ltd ) will launch a takeover post-Wallis," the analyst said.  
"My guess is that the immediate reaction would be negative," he said, adding he saw ANZ's true price at around A$6.50.
But after the denial, ANZ's share price rose with the rest of the market. It was up two cents at A$7.18 at 12.50 p.m. (0150 GMT).
Analysts said such a merger could however also bring out a potential rival takeover bidder such as HSBC Holdings Plc.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Gold miner Niugini Mining Ltd, which owns 17.15 percent of the shares in Papua New Guinea's Lihir Gold Ltd, said on Monday it was looking at ways of giving those Lihir shares back to its shareholders.
"We're looking at the possibility of returning the Lihir shareholding to shareholders and when that can be done," Nuigini Mining chief executive Ian Goudie told Reuters.
Goudie said a straight forward return of the shares to shareholders could not approved until late 1998 given the Lihir mine's current debt arrangements.  
But Nuigini was also looking at other structures through which the shares could be returned before then, he said.
He said the Lihir share return was just one of several possible ways of unlocking the true value of the Lihir stake, which was not reflected in Niugini's current share price.
"The whole purpose is to unlock this mismatch," he said.
Niugini's assets could viewed in two parts -- the Lihir stake and other smaller mining assets, he said.
"If the two parts were to be separated they would appear to have more value to shareholders."
The chairman of Hong Kong freight forwarding company Baltrans Ltd, Anthony Lau, said he expects to enjoy considerable synergy and economies of scale following the acquisition of a majority stake this summer in a Los Angeles competitor, Fond Group.
"As yet there is no integration of the companies, which are still operating on a parallel basis, but as time goes on we will enjoy economies of scale and expect to see further growth," he added.
Baltrans is well positioned in Asia while Fond is well placed in the US west coast, "so additional synergy is there," Lau said.
Baltrans completed the HK$32.2 million deal for a 67.4 per cent stake in the Fond Group in July, Lau told Reuters in a telephone interview from his Kowloon office.
Fond specialises in shipping cargo from Hong Kong to the west coast of America and its acquisition is aimed at increasing the overall profitability of the Baltrans group on trans-Pacific segments, Lau said.
Baltrans added the Fond Group includes Fondair Express (HK), Fondocean Express (HK) and Fondexpress (USA) which have a combined turnover of around HK$300 million. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
China International Trust and Investment Corp, one of China's major conglomerates, is focusing its domestic operations on the financial sector where it hopes to see 70 percent of its profits, a top executive said.
"We are making money in the financial sector though manufacturing is having a hard time now," said Chang Zhenming, group executive director.
"We see finance contributing about 70 percent of our domestic net profit in the near term," he said in a recent interview.
Chang chose his words carefully, saying that the finance business would be used "to serve the conglomerate's commercial and industrial operations".
But company officials said that CITIC had been disappointed, with some of its early industrial investments -- such as in the machinery and garment sectors -- and it would like to remould itself as a financial services company.
CITIC reported profit of 2.05 billion yuan ($247 million) last year, up from 1.67 billion yuan in 1994.
Most of CITIC's income is from its huge Hong Kong arm, which includes listed CITIC Pacific Ltd.
But for the group's domestic operations, CITIC Industrial Bank is the main contributor, accounting for net profits of about 1.0 billion yuan last year, up 20 percent over 1994.
Profits from the bank were likely to climb another 20 percent this year, despite the impact on interest income from two cuts in interest rates this year, Chang said.
"We have a good base of corporate clients," said Chang.
He added that this gave the bank a reliable source of low-cost call-money deposits from major companies.
Chang said the bank had also been able to hold the line on bad debts -- a key problem for many of China's banks -- though no figure was given.
"We are a bit more conservative than some of the other banks so we've had fewer bad loans," he said.
The group expected to earn more than 100 million yuan this year from its securities operations, though commodities trading would be break-even at best, the executive said.
CITIC still has diversified domestic interests ranging from power projects and telecommunications to automotive production and real estate.
Finance probably acounts for more than 70 percent of domestic profits at the moment, largely because of poor results from several industrial investments while other more promising projects are still in their early stages.
But Chang said reforms that had created so-called joint stock companies probably would spur the company's development in the financial sector, as more companies would seek loans on commercial terms rather than rely on state funding.
Chang also said the company wanted to expand its financial operations to include property insurance. It was seeking to form a joint venture with other domestic partners though this project still required regulatory approval.
International copper prices are likely to stick to the high road for some time yet, pricing the metal out of the key China market, Far East metal traders said on Monday.
"The LME (London Metal Exchange) will move higher and will test US$2,100 (a tonne)," a base metal trader in Hong Kong said.
"We want it to go down. $1,800 to $1,900 is workable."
Copper prices on the LME rallied through the psychological barrier of US$2,000 a tonne on Friday, hitting $2,027 in late afternoon trading.
This rally pushed the international price above the domestic Chinese price, rendering imports senseless, traders said.
On the Shanghai Metal Exchange, the most active February 1997 contract opened at 19,550 yuan ($2,355) a tonne, consolidating around that level within the first half-hour.
China levies a three percent import duty and a 17 percent value-added tax (VAT) on copper imports, killing margins at current prices, traders said.
Soggy Chinese business would be further dampened, traders said. One source at a Chinese listed company said he had 200 tonnes of the red metal to sell at a premium of $100 over the LME spot price.
The premium on copper, CIF (cost, insurance and freight) to Hong Kong and Chinese ports, was $150 last week, traders said.
"We will not have any import business (with China) with such high LME prices," another trader in Hong Kong said. "We are getting calls from Chinese offering copper back to the market."
"Premiums are not the issue, the total price is the concern -- and even with no premium it is difficult," he said.
Among the bears, the head of a trading house in Hong Kong bullishly noted signs the central government was attempting to stimulate the property market could see copper and aluminium users stocking up.
Cancellation of interest rate subsidies, interest rate reductions and the removal of private car purchase quotas were aimed at stimulating the sluggish economy, he said.
"I think the whole picture will change," he said.
"We have been waiting for a very long time and we have known they (Chinese authorities) are moving in this direction. It will restart cash flow and that will re-stimulate the economy very, very quickly," he said.
He and other traders said Chinese consumers' stocks, usually kept at one month's supply or around 100,000 tonnes, have been run down.
"Consumers have nothing and if they have to accumulate investory in their warehouses because of the change of sentiment, the damage to the market will disappear," he said.
Other sources said the Shanghai Metal Exchange had around 15,000 tonnes of copper in stock.
Drawdowns from LME warehouse stocks over the past couple of months indicated demand in Europe was picking up, traders said.
"If it continues, we will not have enough material, especially as there is no scrap around at the moment and LME stocks are down (to 145,825 tonnes)," said the trading house boss.
"The situation could become critical by the end of the year," he said.
Indonesia's infant mutual funds industry is poised for rapid growth with far-reaching consequences for the country's financial markets and economy, a mutual funds conference in Jakarta was told on Monday.
"There is enormous potential for change," John Booth, Asia managing director for the mutual funds services firm DST International, told fund management experts.
The adoption of a Capital Markets Law earlier this year paved the way for the creation of open-ended mutual funds in Indonesia, which, until recently, offered only one closed-end fund.
"These are sweeping changes which, if successful, could change the savings profile of the country, deepen the secondary market significantly and have a profound effect on the banking and mutual funds industries," Booth said.
Indonesia's population of nearly 200 million people, combined with the forecast economic growth rate of 7.5 percent this year and a high savings rate typical of most Asian nations, promise lucrative returns to mutual fund trailblazers, he said.
Seven open-ended mutual funds, or "reksa dana," have been established so far with a value of US$640 million, and five more are in the pipeline.
Most, however, will focus on fixed income instruments rather that equities because of high-yielding bank deposits and uneven returns from Jakarta's illiquid stock market, where four large stocks account for 25 percent of volume and foreign investors account for about 70 percent of trading value.
"Obviously, equity markets are more volatile, and if people invest in them initially and they have a bad experience, it could harm the industry," Booth said.
He declined to predict how long it would take for mutual funds to boost liquidity on the Jakarta Stock Exchange. But exchange director Felia Salim suggested a guaranteed return to first-time mutual fund investors would speed up the development of a domestic funds industry and, hence, market efficiency.
"If we are to produce a domestic investor base, this would be something of a short-cut," Salim said. "If we rely on education it will take forever. The best pull is to experience an immediate capital gain."
Salim noted a guaranteed return was successfully used by Malaysia, which has set up two state funds in an attempt to even out socio-economic disparities. Malaysia has a domestic investor base of 3.31 million compared with Indonesia's tiny base of under 400,000, or less than one percent of the population.
Salim said Indonesia was unlikely to follow precisely the same model, adding that the country has an upper class of 1.2 million households with an average of 2.5 million rupiah in savings per year. However, surveys have shown a very low awareness of mutual funds within this group.
She added that while Indonesia's potential as a mutual fund investing nation remains spectacular, the stock exchange faces a substantial hurdle in education: only 17 percent of the population knows what a stock exchange is.
DST's Booth said the stock exchange and financial market regulators would also have to work hard to enhance transparency.
General Motors Corp, battling to avoid a second strike by assembly and parts workers this month, said it was hopeful a new labor contract could be reached before an extension deadline at midnight on Sunday.
Speaking to reporters gathered at GM's headquarters here, GM spokesman Chuck Licari said GM and the United Auto Workers were still working to resolve difficult and complex issues.
"GM remains hopeful an agreement can be reached before the UAW's termination of the current 1993 national agreement at 11:59 p.m. (0459 GMT) tonight," said Licari.
At stake is a new labor agreement for GM's 215,000 hourly UAW workers. GM employs more than half of the approximately 390,000 UAW members who work at Detroit's Big Three automakers. It is the only one of the Big Three to not have a new three-year labor contract.
UAW spokesman Frank Joyce declined to comment on the talks. UAW President Stephen Yokich said on Friday that he was not optimistic a deal could be reached by the deadline. In a sign an agreement might not be reached tonight, Licari said GM Chairman Jack Smith was not at the automaker's headquarters, although he was in touch with negotiators.
Both Ford Motor Co Chairman Alex Trotman and Chrysler Corp Chairman Robert Eaton were present for the final stages of their company's negotiations and appeared at press conferences announcing a deal.
Bargainers for UAW and GM resumed Sunday morning after they adjourned Saturday evening. Analysts speculated that negotiators could be wrangling over contract language that would dictate how many workers GM would have to guarantee jobs.
Bowing to UAW concerns over job security, both Ford and Chrysler have agreed to new contracts that promise to keep 95 percent of their current UAW hourly workforces except in the event of a severe industry downturn.
"I think if there's a sticking point that may be it," said Dale Brickner, a labor expert at the Michigan State University. "GM may be pushing to get that figure farther down than the UAW may be comfortable living with."
GM, the least efficient U.S. automaker, is trying to shed 12 unprofitable parts plants, and wants to exclude certain component facilities from the employment guarantee, including a door hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich.
In settling a 20-day strike by the Canadian Auto Workers union last week, GM was able to secure a deal that included the sale of two parts plants and flexibility to outsource more products.
Yokich has not said what he will do after once the contract extension expires at midnight Sunday. He set the deadline on Friday, but did not actually threaten a strike. Workers have been told to stay on the job until they hear otherwise.
However, there was speculation Sunday the UAW could mount a plant-specific strike if not enough progress had been made by the deadline. By hitting light truck plants such as the sport/utility facility in Janesville, Wis., the union could hurt the sale of some of GM's most profitable products at a time it is trying to bounce back from the Canadian strike.
GM's U.S. operations continue to respond to the strike by 26,000 CAW workers. The more than 6,600 UAW members at GM's Buick City complex have been told not to report Monday. At the same time, GM is running radio ads telling first-shift workers at its Hamtramck assembly plant to report to work Monday.
Sun Microsystems Inc. Tuesday introduced its first network computer, the JavaStation, in a direct challenge to Microsoft and Intel, the dominant players in the industry.
Saying the company was ushering in a new era of computing, Sun Chief Executive Officer Scott McNealy unveiled a sleek, charcoal-grey device, about nine inches by 12 inches, with no disk drives or slots or floppy disks, to allow access to networks of computers and the Internet, at a cost of $742.
Sun, Oracle Corp., and International Business Machines Corp. are challenging the computer industry's dominant "Wintel" architecture from Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp. with the new low-cost, low-maintenance network computers, or "NCs."
"Today you'll see why the network is the computer and has been since 1984," McNealy said, reiterating Sun's mantra.
The JavaStation is targeted at businesses. Sun said the machines might eventually be offered into the consumer market by cable TV and telecommunications firms as Internet access devices, but it declined to say when that might happen.
With Java, software applications can be written in one language and distributed across networks and diverse computers and computing environments, from mainframes to minicomputers to personal computers and now to the new NCs.
"Java computing is going to be as powerful as the mainframe in the '60s, the minicomputer in the '70s and the PC environment of the '80s," said Ed Zander, president of Sun Micro's Computer Co.
Sun introduced three versions of the JavaStation. The lowest cost, $742 version does not include a monitor or a keyboard. The systems are aimed at corporate users of Sun workstations and host computers, but can also access Microsoft PC applications from a host computer running Windows NT.
At a news conference in New York, Sun executives said they did not expect the new machines to take the place of personal computers, but they also professed amazement at the news conference Microsoft held Monday.
Microsoft, with several major players in the PC industry, unveiled its own "NetPC" strategy aimed at driving down the cost of PC ownership, with new features in Windows for network management, calling it "Zero Administration."
"I have never seen such totally reactive vapour," Zander told reporters. "We must really have touched a nerve."
McNealy said it was simply a move by the "old-line legacy Wintel" trying to hold onto its position in the world. Wintel refers to the combination of Microsoft operating systems and Intel chips.
"People call it a PC on a diet, I call it a PC in a corset, with the strings pulled too tight and a bright red face," McNealy said, referring to the Microsoft initiative.
But even with all the hype surrounding the industry's latest infatuation, Sun executives and analysts were not expecting big sales of the NC, nor will the JavaStation become a big percentage of Sun's hardware sales.
"This thing is a small percentage of the total product environment, it will help sell more servers," Zander told Reuters.
"Maybe a couple of years from now it will begin competing with low-end PCs," said Evan Quinn at International Data Corp., noting Sun's network computing strategy is tied to future expansion of its Java technology.
Sun said the entry level model, containing eight megabytes of memory, will ship beginning in December. A fully configured system, which includes memory, keyboard, a mouse and 14-inch monitor, will cost $995.
The company also said it will offer a JavaStation with 16 megabytes of memory, a mouse, keyboard and a 17-inch monitor for $1,565. The JavaStation also has a small operating system, the Java OS, taking up less than three megabytes of memory.
While the devices are lower cost than the typical PC, which can range in cost from $1,500 to $3,000, Sun executives said their customers will save money as the costs of PC ownership for businesses escalate and are now estimated at anywhere from $6,000 to $12,000 a year, per PC.
Sun said a JavaStation costs about $2,500 a year to maintain, or about $7,500 for three years, potentially saving corporations millions of dollars.
America Online Inc unveiled a broad strategy to transform the online service provider into a mass media company in a move that further renders Internet access services a commodity business.
Earlier Tuesday, the world's leading online service introduced a flat-rate Internet pricing option as a part of a comprehensive restructuring plan, ending years of resistance to competing directly with Internet access providers on price.  
In addition, AOL said it hired Robert Pittman, a prominent media executive, to head its flagship online service, and put forth measures aimed at shoring up its image with investors.
AOL had said it planned to take $460 million in charges spread over the recently ended September quarter and the upcoming December period, mainly to cover its switch to a more conservative method of accounting for marketing costs.
The stock see-sawed as investors digested whether the near-term profits impact was compensated for by the prospect AOL would become a stable, but growing, mass media enterprise.
AOL shares had risen 1 to 25-5/8 in late trading Tuesday.  
Gary Arlen, an online industry analyst, said "the market is responding to the financial announcements and not to the promise of all these other plans, including what Pittman brings to the company."
Arlen added that the restructuring plan demonstrates that AOL "is a dynamic company that can respond to challenges decisively.
In an interview, AOL chairman Steve Case said Pittman -- the broadcast executive who created MTV and made it the first profitble cable TV company -- was hired to help lead AOL into a new era of growth by addressing the mass media market.  
While Case expects AOL to pass the 10 million mark in subscriptions late in calender year 1997, "The focus is not on getting to 10 million, but getting out to tens of millions and that's what (Pittman) is focused on," he said of the new divsion head.
Pittman, who also took part in the phone interview, said that with TV-sized audiences on the horizon, AOL planned to accelerate its emphasis on advertising, online merchandising and sources of revenue other than subscriber fees.
"The main point is that we are really shifting the business model toward these new sources of revenues," he said.  
Analysts said AOL's thrust into the Internet access business will have reprucussions for rival online companies, Internet access providers and even the firms that create special entertainment and other programming for the Internet.
Arlen said the first casualty of AOL's plans to offer seemless access to the Internet will be its own GNN Internet service, which AOL told analysts it plans to discontinue.
At a new rate of $19.95, AOL puts itself in the same pricing league as "pure" Internet access providers, such as Netcom On-Line Communications Inc and Earthlink Network Inc, which offer little or no proprietary content.  
"What happens is that access becomes a commodity service," said Arlen, who heads Arlen Communications Inc in Bethesda, Md. "AOL has now defined the $20 a month Internet access rate as a commodity," he said.
However, in a phone interview, David Garrison, Netcom's chief executive said he expects to feel little direct impact from the AOL move, since Netcom is mainly focused on serving and "adding value" for business customers.
Netcom, with 562,000 paying subscribers as of September 30, is the largest independent provider of Internet access. More than 98 percent of Netcom's customers already pay $19.95.  
"The difference is that our product is not aimed at the consumer, the entertainment sector if you will," he said in contrasting AOL's core market with Netcom's business focus.
Reflecting the differing demand of his base of small and medium-sized business customers, Garrison claimed that Netcom turnover rates have remained relatively low and stable over the last seven quarters -- in striking contrast to AOL.
Arlen noted that America Online also discussed ambitious plans to develop an increasing amount of programming content for the Internet in its newly created AOL Studio division, led by long-time executive Ted Leonsis.  
In effect, AOL is commodifying the programming content on the Web, much in the way the big Hollywood movie studios have dominated film and broadcast production, Arlen said.
"AOL is becoming a one-stop source for Internet access, programming content and other services," Arlen said. "I expect that AOL's offerings will be totally satisfactory to the millions of users who are newbies to the Internet and a large number of heavy users who are fed up with shopping for deals."
Abhishek Gami, an analyst at Nesbitt Burns Securities, added that, "Now there will be less confusion both for investors and for consumers as well."
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
British cider group Matthew Clark said on Tuesday fashionable "alcopop" drinks had helped to wipe a third off the sales of its premium brands -- Diamond White, K and Babycham -- in the first five months of the financial year.
Matthew Clark has been hit the hardest by a surge in popularity for so-called alcopops -- alcoholic colas and lemonades -- which have proved a success with younger drinkers. Fierce price wars among rival drinks companies have also had ab affect.
Since Matthew Clark stunned the stock market in September with a profit warning that wiped more than 290 million pounds ($466 million) off its market value, investors have badgered the group to explain how it intends to win back sales.
In the long-awaited statement, Matthew Clark conceded that price wars had continued and that sales of draught cider in June and July, were 10 percent lower than during last year's hot summer. Premium brands saw sales slump 30 percent.
The group's draught cider sales were 15 percent down across the whole summer -- although current trading in cider had since stabilised. "We expect the underlying growth within the cider market as a whole to resume," the company said.
But it said it expected to hold its interim dividend at nine pence when it reported half year results ending October 31.
The company's shares closed a sharp 17.5 pence higher at 317.5 pence, although far short of their year high of 804 pence.
"The thing that's made them bounce is they've said they expect to maintain the dividend. But you've got to be cautious because there's no guide as to underlying profit levels," said one dealer.
The company has launched a review of its marketing strategy in branded drinks, mainly Diamond White and mainstream ciders Dry Blacthorn and Gaymers Olde English. The key findings will be released in January.
In the meantime, the company said it would create the new position of marketing director, a main board appointment, and take on 40 staff in sales and marketing in its branded drinks division.
Alcopops have proved especially popular with young drinkers, forging major inroads into the British drinks market. In May, research body Euromonitor said it would be worth about 170 million pounds this year after 100 million in 1995.
Leading brands include alcoholic lemonade Hooper's Hooch, owned by Bass, and Two Dogs, marketed by Merrydown.
Drinks industry leaders agreed in January to a voluntary code of practice aimed at limiting the promotion of alcopops after the drinks sparked a storm of controversy over whether they encouraged under-age drinking.
In its last budget, the government imposed a heavy duty on ciders with an alcohol content over 7.5 percent from next year but left alcoholic colas and lemonades unaffected.
CE Electric's $1.225 billion bid for British regional electricity company (Rec) Northern Electric has highlighted possible renewed interest in the four other remaining independent Recs, analysts said on Tuesday.
"There are clearly operational reasons which make the bid attractive to CE Electric, so there may be other bidders. And other Recs must also be under the spotlight," said one sector analyst who asked not to be identified.
The U.S. group said it wanted Northern's expertise in supply to complement its own generation capabilities as the international market in electricity opens up to privatisation.
But Northern Electric rejected the bid, the second unwanted advance it has faced in two years. However, its chairman, David Morris, has indicated that it might consider a higher price.
On Monday he said talks with CE Electric, which is 70-percent owned by Nebraska-based CalEnergy, culminated on Sunday with a proposal that bid negotiations be pitched at about 700 pence per share, compared with the 630 pence which was then offered.
This was promptly denied by CE Electric, which insisted that it had at no time suggested such a price.
Even that level is some way off the giddy heights paid for many of the seven cash-rich Recs already sold to predators, four of them to U.S. companies. Those sales peaked with North West Water's 11.50 pounds per share bid for Norweb in November 1995.
But analysts said Northern, which used a 560 million pound ($900 million) package of benefits to shareholders to beat a hostile bid last year from shipping and construction firm Trafalgar House, now owned by Norway's Kvaerner, has little left in its cupboard.
"They (CE Electric) are not going for its cash pile, because it hasn't got one. The logic must be for operational reasons," the sector analyst said.
Northern's attractions in this context could be that its price would be cheaper than other Recs because it lacks cash.
Reports have suggested other possible interested U.S. buyers of CE Electric might be Houston Industries, Duke Power, Florida Power and Light or Pacific Gas and Electric.
But if other U.S. firms decline to get involved in a tussle with CE Electric, they might look at other Recs and be keen to buy before the next British election, due by May 1997, which could give power to the opposition Labour Party. Labour has slammed previous takeovers.
"These U.S. companies need the expertise, they need the supply experience and they are looking to move into the international market ahead of further privatisation," the sector analyst said.
However, one analyst questioned the strategy and asked why U.S. companies did not just hire employees with the required knowledge.
"It doesn't make sense to me to buy these companies at these prices," he said. Northern Electric shares eased on Tuesday to 636 pence, down 12 pence by 1600 GMT, as the market held its breath to see if a higher offer would emerge.
Without a rival bidder, analysts said there was little to prompt CE Electric, in which U.S.-based construction, mining and telecoms group Peter Kiewit Sons has a 30 percent stake, to raise its offer, apart from the prospect of an agreed rather than a hostile bid.
That might be possible around half way between CE Electric's current offer and Northern's price ideas, they added.
But one analyst noted that CE Electric had already snapped up 12.72 percent of the company at the offer price, indicating that some investors were happy to sell at this level.
Northern, which has said it will bring forward its half-year results, will have two weeks to submit an initial bid defence after CE Electric posts its offer document.
Under British takeover rules, the last day a company may announce defence measures is 39 days after posting the bid document. A bidder has up to 46 days after posting its offer in which to raise the terms, unless a rival bidder emerges. ($1=.6223 Pound)
One of China's most prominent dissidents, Wang Dan, is expected to receive a harsh sentence on the charge of plotting to overthrow the government, his mother said on Tuesday.
Wang, 27, would plead not guilty to the capital charge when his trial at the Beijing Intermediate People's Court begins on Wednesday, said the dissident's mother, Wang Lingyun.
"The court...giving my son a harsh sentence even though he is innocent is very likely to happen," Wang Lingyun told Reuters. "I dare not rule it out."
She said court officials told her the verdict could be delivered as early as Wednesday or in two days. Family members had been under surveillance for several weeks, she added.
The former student leader, who vanished into detention in May 1995, faces a minimum 10-year sentence and a maximum penalty of death.
The court has refused to give details of Wang's trial except to say he has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government.
The New York-based Human Rights Watch said last week the chances of acquittal were slim because Wang has not had adequate time to prepare a defence.
His family found a lawyer willing to defend the dissident after being given just one day in which to do so.
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, would attend the trial as one of two defence lawyers. His father and a sister would be allowed to sit in.
The mother has said the dissident was calm and mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, although she has said his health had deteriorated during his detention.
Human Rights Watch attacked the trial on Tuesday as a sign of the Chinese leadership's increasing intolerance of dissent.
"The fact is that China's urban dissident movement... has in effect been comprehensively smashed," it said in a statement.
"At least where political dissidents are concerned, all the judicial signs thus far point... to intensified repression by the country's state security forces," it said, calling for a freeze on trade missions from the United States, Europe, Japan and Australia.
The human rights group said Chinese criminal trials seldom respect the presumption of innocence, and defence lawyers were generally restricted to arguing mitigating circumstances for a reduced sentence.
Wang's court appearance would likely be held out of the public eye, as was last year's trial of Wei Jingsheng, regarded as the father of China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Officials have been silent on a request by the U.S. embassy in Beijing to send observers to Wang's trial, diplomats said.
French senator Robert Badinter, former U.S. attorneys general Nicholas Katzenback and Richard Thornburgh, and former Canadian solicitor-general Warren Allmand have also said they want to observe Wang's trial.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang on Tuesday shrugged off questions from reporters about the status of the requests, saying Wang's trial was China's internal affair.
Beijing has repeatedly come under fire from the West for human rights abuses. It says foreign intervention in China's internal affairs is not welcome.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He was politically active again after his parole in 1993, defying police surveillance to join a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of those still jailed for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has recently cracked down on the few remaining dissidents who have not fled into exile or been jailed.
The mayor of China's capital resigned on Tuesday in a reshuffle that had been expected since the downfall last year of his mentor, disgraced Beijing Communist Party boss Chen Xitong, in a corruption scandal.
The Beijing People's Congress had approved the resignation of city mayor Li Qiyan, the official Xinhua news agency said.
It did not explain why Li, 58, was stepping down, saying only that he would become secretary of the Labour Ministry's Communist Party committee.
Chinese sources have said Li Qiyan could eventually replace Li Boyong as labour minister. The two men have the same surname but are not related.
Diplomats and Chinese sources said Li was forced to step down because of his close links to Chen, who resigned as Beijing party boss in April 1995 after his protege, a vice-mayor, came under investigation for economic crimes and committed suicide.
"Li Qiyan had been closely associated with Chen Xitong...and Li Qiyan's departure was inevitable," a Western diplomat said.
"When revelations about the extent of corruption in the Beijing government became public, sweeping changes of the Beijing leadership were required but could not be done in one go in the interest of preserving stability," the diplomat said.
Chinese sources said the city government had been virtually paralysed since Chen's downfall and that authorities had decided they could no longer delay naming a new mayor.
Chen was sacked from the party's powerful Politburo in September 1995, the most senior official to be ensnared in a corruption scandal since the communists came to power in 1949.
He has since disappeared from public view and has come under investigation for possible wrongdoing.
It was not known if Li was under investigation.
Xinhua said the Beijing People's Congress, or city council, had approved the appointment of Jia Qinglin, 56, as vice and acting mayor of the nation's capital.
The Central Committee of the Communist Party named Jia to the post of vice secretary of Beijing's party committee.
Jia had resigned as party secretary of the southeastern province of Fujian and was replaced by Fujian Governor Chen Mingyi, Xinhua said.
Fujian Vice-Governor He Guoqiang would replace Chen as the provincial governor, it said.
In the run-up to the party's 15th congress next year, Jia could be promoted to chief of the Beijing municipal party committee and even land a seat in the Politburo, Chinese sources have said.
Corruption was virtually eliminated in the years after the communists came to power in 1949, but has staged a comeback along with economic reforms in the past 17 years.
Wang Baosen, the vice-mayor who committed suicide was found to have used his position to amass 116 houses illegally and build himself a villa on the outskirts of the city. He also masterminded a $37 million embezzlement and graft scam, officials have said.
Communist Party chief and state president Jiang Zemin has declared war on corruption, warning that the scourge was a virus that threatened the party. Courts frequently impose the death penalty in major corruption cases.
Ambitious plans to establish Islamic mutual funds in Indonesia include the "cleansing" of profits disallowed under Islamic law, a senior fund manager told a mutual funds conference on Tuesday.
Islamic law prohibits Moslems from earning interest on bank deposits or investing in certain types of equities.
But Nik Ezar Nik Bolia, chief executive officer of Malaysia's DCB-RHB Unit Trust Management Berhad, said the company had come up with a tried and tested method of working around the rules.
"The cleansing process takes out the impact of the interest earned," he said. "It's against Islam to gain interest on a deposit, so we remove and give to charity a proportion of the total profit."
DCB-RHB's efforts have lured US$80 million into a domestic Islamic fund in Malaysia, where 54 percent of the population is Moslem, he said.
More than 85 percent of Indonesia's population of nearly 200 million is Moslem, suggesting an equally promising future awaits any fund that appeals to the nation's religious principles.
"Southeast Asia has a combined population of 220 million Moslems," Nik said. "Therefore any product based on Islamic principles will be highly successful."
To allay concern about stock market investments, Malaysia's Bank of Islam has set up panels of scholars to vet individual stocks to ensure they are "halal", or comply with Sharia law by avoiding liquor, gambling, pornography or footwear, Nik said.
"Then we look at the core business," he said. "If it is halal that is fine, but if a subisidiary is not halal, the parent company will be rejected. However, if the subsidiary is halal and the parent company not, the subsidiary is halal and will be accepted."
The same system will be set up in Indonesia by DCB-RHB's subisidiary, P.T. Rashid Hussain Asset Management, Nik said.
However, there are substantial obstacles blocking the path to Moslem mutual fund investment in Indonesia. Among the most obvious is a relatively casual approach to religion.
"In Malaysia, the law is enforced. If you are not fasting the police can come and catch you, but in Indonesia, religion is encouraged but if you don't do it no one really cares," said one delegate to the conference.
Nik countered that 40 percent of Indonesia's Moslems are observant, but conceded that a 1,000-person survey disclosed that most were already investing in prohibited bank deposits.
"Earning interest on bank deposits is a no-no under Sharia law and 61 percent said they knew that, but there is no alternative investment," Nik said.
He admitted that persuading these investors to switch into lower-yielding stock market funds subject to profit-cleansing presented a formidable challenge. But he said that savings put towards the Moslem pilgrimage to Mecca offered hope.
"That will be the trick that we have to perform...but every year Indonesia has a high proportion of people going to Mecca," he said.
"This is my target market. If one of them were to save from ground zero to seven million rupiah into our fund before they redeem to go to Mecca, it is a captive market."
Each year 195,000 Indonesian Moslems pay 7.55 million rupiah to participate in the government-organised pilgramage to Mecca.
(US$1 = 2,327 rupiah)
Tandem Computer Inc on Wednesday will become the latest maker of high-end, proprietary computers to introduce a line of machines based on personal computer technology.
Tandem, which specializes in making transaction-processing computers for banks and stock exchanges, said it will unveil a line of servers based on Intel Corp's Pentium Pro microprocessors and Microsoft Corp's Windows NT networking operating system.
The servers -- which are computers souped up to control the flow of information through a network -- will include some of Tandem's technology for handling huge volumes of transactions, the company said. Tandem plans to pitch the machines to customers who want to set up shop on the Internet.
The machines are Tandem's first step to rely less on sales of computers based on its own proprietary software and technology.
Banks, telephone companies and stock exchanges still rely heavily on Tandem's so-called fault-tolerant computers for their heavy-duty computing.
But Tandem's sales growth has stalled in recent years as its customers have replaced some of its machines with networks of cheaper computers from companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc and Compaq Computer Corp.
To strike back, Tandem unveiled a strategy earlier this year that includes making servers based on off-the-shelf technology from Intel and Microsoft.
Other high-end computer makers, such as International Business Machines Corp and Digital Equipment Corp, embarked on similar strategies years ago.
With its new machines, Tandem plans to help its existing customers set up networks based on Microsoft's Windows NT networking software, said Chris Rooke, Tandem's vice president of corporate marketing.
"We expect Tandem to now be on our customers' vendor list when they're looking at using Windows NT in more business- critical applications," Rooke said. "Yes, we do expect to open new accounts, but we expect to still be Fortune 500-class customers."
Rooke said Tandem will concentrate on selling the machines as foundations for businesses that want to sell their wares online.
Tandem also plans on Wednesday to unveil a new line of its Himalaya servers, a line of proprietary servers for storing and retrieving huge libraries of corporate information.
Rooke declined to discuss the pricing of its new lines.
The Federal Communications Commission reined in its regulation of long-distance telephone rates Tuesday by scrapping a Depression-era rule requiring phone carriers to tell the agency beforehand of rate changes.
FCC officials said the move was designed to inject more competition into the $70 billion long-distance market and cut thousands of pages of government red tape for long-distance companies such as AT&amp;T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
But industry officials and consumer advocates argued the new approach will lead to consumer confusion and make it tougher for consumers to get the best possible deals.
The 1934 rule the FCC ended forced long-distance carriers to tell the FCC ahead of time of plans to change rates or offer new services via "tariff" filings with the agency.
The rule was intended originally to let regulators approve or reject the changes while giving the public an advance look.
Under the new approach, companies will be required to disclose their rates and conditions to the public, such as through ad campaigns or over the Internet computer network.
FCC officials said the onset of greater competition in the long-distance market made the old rule outdated. They said that few people actually read the complex filings.
Officials said elimination of the tariff requirement removes the opportunity for long-distance carriers to tacitly collude on phone rates by getting a preview of their competitors' pricing policies.
"Competition will intensify and consumer benefits will increase as a result," said Commissioner Susan Ness.
The tariff filings currently take effect one day after their submission to the FCC. When AT&amp;T was classified a "dominant" carrier, the No. 1 long-distance company had to wait up to 60 days. The FCC ended AT&amp;T's dominant status last fall.
The new approach is the first major step the FCC has taken under a part of the new telecommunications law allowing the agency to shed outdated rules, as long as the public interest is unharmed. The new rules will take effect in nine months.
"We think it's a terrible mistake," said Mark Cooper of the Consumer Federation of America. "You need informed choices." He noted that groups such as his use the data from the tariff filings to help consumers find the best phone packages and avoid questionable deals.
Industry officials had sought -- but without success -- to retain the option of submitting tariff filings for certain residential and small-business phone plans, saying that would make it easier for customers know their phone rates.
"While AT&amp;T has always favoured less regulation, we're concerned the FCC's decision to mandate the end of tariffs will lead to more consumer confusion and possible litigation," said AT&amp;T Vice President Gerry Salemme.
Sun Microsystems Inc's newly launched Javastation network computer is its first machine to compete directly with low-end personal computers, but analysts aren't expecting runaway sales just yet.
"Maybe a couple of years from now it will begin competing with low-end PCs," said Evan Quinn, an analyst at International Data Corp, noting Sun's network computing strategy is tied to future expansion of its Java technology.
An entry-level NC will be available in December.  
Earlier Tuesday, the Mountain View, Calif.-based provider of network computing products and powerful workstations, introduced the JavaStation, a scaled-down PC designed to access corporate networks and the Internet, with an entry price of $742.
The company said the entry-level model would contain eight megabytes of memory and will ship beginning in December. A fully configured system, which includes memory, a keyboard, a mouse and fourteen-inch monitor will ship for $995.  
Sun officials are hoping the device will appeal to corporate clients looking to cut their costs for upgrading and maintaining office PC's.
However, given the entry of long-time NC doubter Microsoft Corp into the market with plans for a light version of its Windows operating system, the market will be hotly contested.
International Business Machines Corp launched its first NC model last month.  
Redwood City, Calif.-based Oracle Corp, which has been beating the drum for creating a new NC standard for 18 months, is leading a further effort to build network computers for broader markets.
"This is just beginning to heat up and could potentially start getting very interesting," one analyst said of the brewing slugfest between computer industry titans.
Sun Microsystems's machines are more highly targeted than many of its adversaries', however, and it has linked them together with a Java-centric model of future computing.  
Java, a hot new technology introduced by Sun in May 1995 as a programming language initially, has since been expanded into a whole computing architecture for both hardware and software as Sun moved aggressively to proliferate its use.
Sun has licensed Java to the suppliers of nearly all major computer operating systems, including Microsoft and its popular Windows operating systems. One of Java's most compelling features is that it can be used across rival systems.  
This feature should enable software developers in the future to write one version of their software that could work on nearly all systems, known as "write once, play anywhere."
Initially, the market will be to replace very basic computer terminals, such as IBM's 3270 terminals or IBM AS/400 midrange character-based terminals, in very simple, dedicated functions such as entering data into a company's network.
International Data Corp projects there are "a couple of million" such terminals in use currently, and perhaps as many as 10 million personal computers used for such activities.  
The market for the NC is likely to build sales gradually, according to IDC, which expects a million to be sold around the world in 1997, still dwarfed by the tens of millions of personal computers sold annually.
Some industry analysts have questioned whether the NC will ever really catch on, and many believe it will not do so for at least some 18 months or so, by which time Sun's partners should be producing microprocessors optimized for Java.
Ed Zander, president of Sun Microsystems Computer Company, said in an interview that Sun realistically expects acceptance to be a gradual process, but to lead to a new computing epoch.
"We worked long and hard about not just producing a cheap box, but (also addressing the question) 'How does that box work in a corporate environment?'," he said. "'How do you administer it? How do manage it? How do you develop it? How do you deploy it?'"
He acknowledges Sun's approach produced a system that is "markedly different" from the NCs that Oracle and IBM are talking about, or even that of Microsoft's NetPC.
Sun is targeting cost savings, claiming large organizations can reduce the three-year cost of ownership using its Java systems to around $7,500, or as much as one fifth of three-year networkedPC costs projected at up to $36,000.
--sam.perry@reuters.com, Palo Alto Bureau, +1415 846 5400
United Auto Workers bargainers reconvened at General Motors Corp.'s headquarters Tuesday following a day off Monday, but talks between the two sides maintained a low profile, UAW and company spokesmen said.
UAW workers continued to report to their jobs at GM's U.S. factories, despite the expiration of their national labour agreement with the automaker at 11:59 p.m. EST Sunday.
GM spokesman Charles Licari said there were no major "main-table" meetings scheduled Tuesday, but key negotiators were communicating in small groups and by telephone.
"Discussions are taking place, but there is no set timetable regarding the negotiations," Licari said, adding that such communications still may prove fruitful.
A person close to the talks said, however, that he did not expect the situation to change much before Saturday, when the union's key local GM plant-level leaders are scheduled to meet in Detroit.
UAW President Stephen Yokich recessed the talks on Monday and expressed disappointment with the lack of progress toward a settlement, but he refrained from calling a strike against the world's largest automaker.
Still, Yokich said some of the union's GM locals may resort to strikes if progress in local negotiations does not improve. In addition to the national contract, GM is negotiating with more than 100 UAW locals for pacts that cover plant-specific issues.
In New York on Tuesday, GM Chairman Jack Smith said little about the UAW negotiations, but told reporters that he hoped there would be no local strikes.
The threat of additional strikes comes less than a week after Canadian Auto Workers members returned to work following a three-week walkout over the issues of job security and outsourcing, or the shifting of work to outside contractors.
Smith, speaking at a news conference on alternative fuel vehicles, declined to specify the dollar cost of the strike.
"We lost quite a few cars," he said.
GM said Tuesday that 22,913 workers in its U.S. assembly, powertrain and stamping operations remained idle because of lingering shortages of Canadian-made parts.
The automaker said it laid off an additional 465 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, metal stamping plant Tuesday, one of four such plants affected.
GM's nearby Lordstown, Ohio, assembly plant remains completely idled, as does its Buick City assembly plant in Flint, Mich. Five other assembly plants remain partially idled, bringing GM's laid off assembly workers to 15,284.
GM has 5,702 engine and transmission workers laid off, with six such powertrain plants partially idled.
In the UAW talks, which cover a total of 215,000 U.S. hourly workers, GM has resisted the union's demand that it follow a pattern set by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. and guarantee jobs for 95 percent of current work force over the next three years.
GM wants to exclude from the guarantee several parts plants that it wants to sell. The automaker has identified 12 facilities that it considers uncompetitive.
GM's stock gained 50 cents to $54.375 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
French Prime Minister Alain Juppe said on Tuesday he wanted a public debate on the planned privatisation of electronics group Thomson SA after an outcry over an earlier government decision.
"Once the (privatisation commission) has delivered its ruling, and whatever its content, I will ask for a public debate on all the issues of this case, financial, industrial and social, so that we can have all the cards on the table before the government decides and everybody takes their responsibilities," Juppe told parliament during question time.
The government said on October 16 it wanted to sell loss-making and indebted Thomson SA to books-to-missiles conglomerate Lagardere Groupe instead of to industrial and telecommunications group Alcatel Alsthom.
The government planned to sell Thomson for a symbolic franc after an 11 billion franc ($2 billion) capital increase.
Lagardere plans to merge Thomson's 58-percent owned Thomson-CSF defence electronics group with its own Matra Defence Espace into the world's second-biggest defence electronics group.
As part of its plan, it agreed to sell Thomson's wholly-owned consumer electronics group Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo Electronics of South Korea, also for a franc.
Juppe told parliament on Tuesday that he personally made the decision to favour Lagardere because it was in the best interests of the country's defence industry and job market.
The Privatisation Commission, a body of seven independent experts, is currently studying both offers and has to state whether the bids reflect the true value of Thomson and whether it agrees with the government's preference.
Its decision is expected in early December.
Normally, a privatisation can go ahead if the commission agrees with the government preference, but the sale procedure has to be restarted if the commission does not agree.
The government normally does not announce its preference but Finance Minister Jean Arthuis said he decided to do so to avoid any insider dealing in shares of Lagardere, Alcatel or Thomson-CSF.
"I don't see them turning back on their decision," a share trader said about the debate. "I think they're doing this to allow them to respond to criticism and explain their decision."
Thomson Multimedia's labour unions are upset by declarations by Juppe that their company was not worth one franc, but minus 14 billion francs, the level of its debts.
Thomson Multimedia chairman Alain Prestat told Le Monde on Tuesday the company would be automatically profitable from 1998 due to technology licensing rights.
The company made a 2.8 billion franc loss in the first half of 1996, Prestat said.
Another criticism also emerged about the way the government announced its preference before the Privatisation Commission had studied the offers.
Lionel Jospin, first secretary of the Socialist Party and rival to Jacques Chirac in last year's presidential elections, openly wondered whether the government had acted illegally.
"I was shocked by the method, which was despicable and perhaps even illegal," he told a television interviewer on October 20.
($1=5.113 French Franc)
The battle between Bill Gates and Larry Ellison over the ballyhooed network computer is getting rougher.
For the past year, Oracle Corp. Chairman Larry Ellison has been evangelizing his vision of a low-cost, diskless PC to access corporate networks and the Internet, a PC without a hefty operating system like Windows.
Ellison's vision has captivated many in the industry, who are weary of the domination by the Wintel combination of Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating systems and Intel Corp. processors in PCs.
Sun Microsystems Inc. has jumped on the network computer bandwagon with Oracle and on Tuesday it will introduce its much-anticipated JavaStation.
But Monday, in a blatant move to steal Sun's thunder, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates struck back.
Microsoft gathered together a Who's Who list of the PC industry and announced its own low-cost solution to the growing interest in the network computer.
"Obviously, Microsoft is feeling the heat from all the hype that Oracle and Sun are getting," said Eileen O'Brien, an analyst at International Data Corp., in Framingham, Mass. Microsoft's initiative left many industry analysts underwhelmed. The software behemoth unveiled a "new" PC design, a standard PC design with an Intel processor, memory, a hard disk drive, and of course, the Windows operating systems, with features to automate software upgrades.
But Microsoft zoomed in on the key point of the pro-network computer argument that is striking a nerve with many corporate information technology managers: the high cost of owning large numbers of PCs.
Some industry analysts estimate that a PC, which can range from $1,500 to $3,000 to purchase, can cost anywhere from $6,000 to $12,000 and more annually to maintain.
Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft unveiled "Zero Administration" features in its roadmap for its NetPC, which will be built into future versions of its Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems.
"That's the biggest advantage of the NC, is the lower cost of ownership" said Tom Rhinelander, an analyst with Forrester Research, in Cambridge, Mass. "They are trying to get to that and say, 'we can create something that is just as low-cost.'"
The concept behind the network computer, which "rents" software such as a word processing package, or a spreadsheet, from a main computer, or server, is that it does not need continuous upgrades for the operating system or applications.
"PCs have two huge liabilities, high cost and high complexity," Marc Andreessen, the co-founder and senior vice president of Netscape Communications Corp., told reporters on a conference call.
As Microsoft was holding a press conference in the backyard of its Silicon Valley foes on Monday, Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape and Oracle, headquartered in Redwood Shores, Calif., unveiled their own alliance.
Oracle agreed to use the Netscape Navigator as the main browser on the Intel version of its network computer, which is expected to ship early next year, and Netscape will offer Oracle database software in its server packages for corporate intranets, or internal networks modeled on the Internet.
"The rise of the NC ... it's a profound shift in the industry," Andreessen said.
While Netscape has much to gain with the adoption of devices that access the Internet and corporate networks -- its browser holds about an 80 percent share of the Internet market -- analysts said the current Navigator is a bit too bulky and has limited functionality on a network computer.
Netscape has a subsidiary, called Navio, which is developing a "thinner" version of Navigator that will be more tailored to NC-like devices, mostly aimed at the home market.
For now, the hype is surrounding the corporate market, where analysts expect the network computer to have an impact.
"I am skeptical about the NC as a consumer device," said Josh Bernoff, another Forrester analyst. "In corporations, there is a lot more hope for it."
Even International Business Machines Corp. has jumped into the fray. The world's largest computer maker was the first company to begin shipping its version of a network computer, which it calls the Network Station, to a limited number of customers, last month.
"To us, it's not about network computers replacing PCs, it is the right technology for the right problem," said Phil Hester, vice president, network computing, at IBM. "We have been through three phases of computing, from the mainframe to the minicomputer to the PC and none of them have replaced the ones that came before them."
Indeed, most market researchers do not believe that the NC will replace the PC, but it will make a dent in the market.
International Data predicts that by the year 2000, there will be about 5.5 million to 6 million NCs shipped, or "non-PC type devices" vs. 80 million PCs.
But when asked which companies will dominate the burgeoning NC sector, analysts hedge.
"Who knows who is going to be around that long," said International Data's O'Brien.
Thames Water reported a strong rise in profits and dividend on Tuesday to kick off Britain's water utility half-year results season, perking up shares in the sector with hopes others would be as generous to shareholders.
Thames said first half pre-tax profits rose to 176 million pounds ($281 million) after exceptional items from 165.4 million pounds in the same period last year while profits before exceptionals were up 15 percent to 188 million pounds.
The one-off items included a 12.2 million pound cost on the premium of repurchasing convertible bonds alongside its buyback of 10 percent of its shares over the summer. Thames hiked its dividend by 22 percent to 11.2 pence.
"The figures are quite reassuring, the dividend is probably the major feature," said David Campbell of broker Greig Middleton.
Thames managing director Bill Alexander told Reuters he expected to "maintain the dividend at this sort of level," pointing out that the half year increase included a rise of some 11 percent taking account of the buyback.
"They are indicating the rate of dividend increase will be like this for the full year," Campbell said.
Thames shares were up four pence to 549 pence by 1056 GMT, off a high of 555 pence. Among other privatised water companies due to report in the coming weeks, Severn Trent was up eight pence to 611 pence and Yorkshire Water gained six pence to 590 pence.
Thames also said it would make extra investment of 150 million pounds in services, which Alexander said would be targeted at reducing leakage of water, at sewerage systems, an extension to the London ring main supply and a new reservoir.
Leakage, which has been a hot political issue for the privatised water firms, was down 10 percent from year-ago levels, Alexander said.
Thames will focus on core water and sewerage activities, it said, but still managed to turn round its activities outside the regulated British water sector to a nine million pound profit at the half year from three million pounds loss a year ago.
"People will be pleased we got nine million pounds from the non-core for the first time...but our primary concern is the core and getting that right," Alexander said.
The non-core businesses cover international contracts, services such as waste management, and property and insurance. Thames said in a statement i
"There is a little confusion as to where all that's going," Campbell said.
Thames said that operating margins rose to 33.7 percent in the first half, up 2.6 percent on the same time last year, while gearing was up to 39 percent from 30 percent.
Alexander said the company was looking at broadening cooperation with local electricity supplier London Electricity but said a merger between the two was still not on the cards.
"We considered that and ruled it out some time ago," he said.
($1=.6264 Pound)
Sun Microsystems Inc. on Tuesday will unveil the long-awaiting stripped-down network computer it claims will cost companies up to 80 percent less to own and operate than a personal computer connected to a network.
Sun's Java Computing initiative, including the JavaStation network computer that Sun plans to sell for as little as $750, is the company's challenge to the PC market dominance of Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp.
The formal unveiling at a New York City news conference is the culmination of months of preparation, and the fruition of a strategy that investors consider sufficiently risky to have prompted a sell-off in the company's stock earlier this month.
Microsoft and Intel announced plans Monday to develop a competing product.
Scott McNealy, chairman and chief executive of Sun, recently told analysts he believed Sun's recent strong financial results were related to its focus on network computing.
Sun Microsystems' approach to the Network Computer -- in contrast to those of allies Oracle Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. -- is to target major corporate customers for fixed-function applications.
Early applications will include such tasks as airline and hotel reservations, kiosks, health care systems and stock trading, and Sun expects to highlight a dozen corporate allies, including British Telecommunications Plc, CSX Corp., Federal Express Corp., and FTD Inc.
Sun also is expected to announce support of top systems integrators, including Andersen Consulting and EDS, and nearly 450 independent software developers.
The basic JavaStation itself, which had been code-named "Mr. Coffee," will have the dimensions of an 8.5 by 11 inch piece of paper, weigh four pounds and have no slots, no hard disk, no CD-ROM and no floppy disk drive.
"A fully-configured system, with keyboard mouse and good resolution display will be under $1,000 dollars," said Ed Zander, president of Sun Microsystems Computer Co. He said an under-desk machine and a desktop model will be sold.
Sun estimates the machines may cost as little as $2,500 per year to own and administer, or $7,500 over three years, compared with independent estimates of PC costs of up to $11,900, or $35,700 over three years.
The JavaStation family will begins shipping in late December to developers and large customers, with volume shipments beginning in 1997.
Sun is also shipping the Netra j server line, with prices ranging from a U.S. list of $7,695 to more than $200,000. Servers are computers that link personal computers in a network.
Sun's JavaSoft unit, which is charged with expanding use of the company's Java technology, also will demonstrate HotJava Views, a method of viewing electronic mail, World Wide Web pages and scheduling software.
Executives declined to say how much HotJava Views will cost, but added it will be priced similar to other software packages on the market, with volume discounts for large sales.
Separately in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday, the company's SunSoft unit is due to provide details of its next-generation Java Workshop system.
These include Project Studio, which enables users to create interactive content without writing code, Project Speedway, which speeds up Java applications, and Project ICE-T, which helps connect Java machines to other computer architectures.
Microsoft Corp. and Fore Systems Inc. plan to annouce Tuesday a deal in which Microsoft will license Fore's high-speed networking technology for use in future versions of its Windows operating system software, according to sources familiar with the deal.
Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) is an emerging technology on which a new generation of higher speed networks are being built that are better able to handle voice, video and data simultaneously.
The sources said the deal will integrate Fore's ATM emulation software directly into the Windows operating system, allowing desktop office computers to use ATM technology without changing other existing computer software.
As a result, the deal could open up a potential market of millions of PC users to adopt ATM network technology, while ensuring compatability with older network technologies.
Neither Microsoft nor Fore Systems would confirm the deal.
But industry analysts said Microsoft's backing of ATM should boost the technology's legitimacy with corporate network administrators, who to date have proved reluctant to install higher-cost ATM networks in place of existing ones.
"It will make connecting PCs to ATM networks easier because all you will have to do is buy an ATM switch, buy an adapter card and a PC is up and running," said Mary Petrosky, a network analyst with The Burton Group in San Mateo, Calif., referring to the basic equipment necessary to install ATM.
Petrosky was one of a handful of analysts who were pre-briefed by the companies about outlines of the deal.
Existing technologies such as Ethernet and Token Ring have been around since the 1970s and remain the dominant standards for networks that connect corporate office computers.
ATM is considered more expensive because it requires investments in existing network infrastructure like cabling, switches and other equipment to be ripped out and replaced.
Sources said integration of ATM into Windows software will help standardize ATM networking products, making it easier to develop ATM products, while driving down customer costs.
Microsoft's own software business is likely to benefit from enabling networks able to transmit multimedia-rich information to become more widely available, Petrosky said.
To date, ATM backers, including Fore, the recognized industry leader in ATM technology development, have failed to win widespread adoption of it in corporate office networks.
Instead, Fore has built a fast-growing business selling ATM technology to telephone carriers who use it to transmit large volumes of data at high speeds over the backbone sections of their wide area telecommunciations networks.
Fore also sells adapter cards that can be installed inside personal computers that allow them to accept information transmitted over these wide area networks.
Here, it faces growing competition from Cisco Systems Inc, Cascade Communications Corp. and others.
Jeremy Duke, a network hardware analyst with the market research firm InStat, based in Scottsdale, Ariz., said Microsoft's intergration of ATM would eliminate some of the hurdles of connecting ATM networks to desktop PCs.
However, he expected the deal's main impact would be to lend visibility to Fore's wide area network ATM business, by providing a broader base of PCs ready to communicate over networks using a mix of ATM and non-ATM technology.
"The deal puts ATM on a little bit more of an even-footing," Petrosky said, but noted, "There are still cost issues and competing technology issues."
Petrosky was referring to how ATM has been upstaged in corporate office networks by an intermediate class of technology known as Fast Ethernet, which allows networks using existing hardware to handle some multimedia communications.
In addition, she said the network industry was beginning to embrace a new method known as Gigabit Ethernet that could rival ATM capabalities in many repects. Gigabit Ethernet allows video transmission at speeds roughly similar to ATM.
"It's another thing that can help ATM, but I don't think it's going to drastically change the odds for ATM acceptance," Duke agreed. "There are other cost-effective technologies available today," he said, referring to Fast Ethernet systems.
It was not clear from the sources whether Microsoft's plans extended beyond its Windows NT and Window 95 operating systems to include its older Windows 3.1 system.
Australian-based insurer QBE Insurance Group Ltd said on Tuesday that profit growth was likely to surge into the high teens for the full 1996/97 year after only a slight increase in its first quarter profit.
"I'm confident that it will be in the teens, and with a bit of luck it will probably be in the high teens," QBE managing director John Cloney told reporters after the group's annual meeting when asked about profit growth for the full year.
Earlier QBE reported a first quarter net profit of A$28.5 million, up just slightly from A$28.0 million a year earlier.  
QBE's full year net profit rose 15.1 percent to A$123.3 million in 1995/96 ended June 30.
Analysts said the first quarter result may have been disappointing, partly due to costs linked to the installation of a new computer system, but the bullish comments were a welcome tonic.
"We're still very happy to see around 15 percent profit growth per annum," said First Pacific insurance analyst Greg Galton.
QBE's share price responded in kind, rising 15 cents to A$6.70 in early Tuesday afternoon trade after Cloney's comments.  
Cloney also said that QBE expected reduced expense ratios over 1996/97 because of improved productivity linked to the new computer systems.
QBE should also achieve its target of double digit premium growth from existing lines and lower acquisition costs, he said.
He also said he saw a continuation of the trend of previous years of increased dividends, but that the franking rate was likely to be reduced to about 50 percent as previously foreshadowed.  
Cloney said QBE's A$70 million acquisition of the British reinsurance assets of Allstate Insurance Co announced in September would also boost profits in 1996/97.
"That will give us in excess of 15 percent return (on equity invested) in this fiscal year," he said.
Referring to this strong rate of return from this latest acquisition, Cloney said QBE continued to be on the look-out for similarly profitable acquisitions.
"We are on the lookout all the time, and there are a couple of things that may come to pass," Cloney said, adding however that he could not be more specific.  
But he said Australia was less likely to be a happy hunting ground for QBE because other competitors and banks were prepared to bid high prices and push down rates of return.
"They're the sort of hurdle rates we set," he said, referring to the 15 percent-plus return likely from Allstate.
"Because we're already earning 17 percent (return on shareholders funds) we're not in the position to spend up large and say we'll get a pay back in three or four years, because it will dilute our overall earnings," he said.  
"So far as Australia is concerned, to acquire at the sort of hurdle rates of return we're looking for is a little difficult because I think there are more people interested in what's available here than overseas."
Cloney also ruled out any bank acquisitions.
"QBE ought to be allowed to buy a bank if it wishes to do so but it is my own personal view and, I believe the view of the board, that we will not be doing that," he said.
-- Bernard Hickey -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Australian gambling group Tabcorp Holdings Ltd is praying for Melbourne Cup fever to grip the betting public next Tuesday and give the company a chance of winning back some lost turnover from its wagering division.
Tabcorp managing director Ross Wilson told the firm's annual meeting here on Tuesday that total turnover rose 17 percent in its first quarter ended September, due entirely to a 27 percent surge in turnover on its 12,000 slot machines around the state.
In contrast, its wagering division suffered an "abysmal" start to the current fiscal year ending June 30, 1997, he said.
U.S. officials are confident a China visit by senior agricultural experts will break an impasse that threatens a multi-million dollar Chinese market for U.S. poultry products, a U.S. agriculture official said on Tuesday.
"Things are looking good," the official in Beijing told Reuters on condition of anonymity.
"I would say we have all the evidence we think we need to convince them (the Chinese) there is no problem," he said.
Two senior U.S. agriculture officials would arrive in Beijing from Washington on Tuesday evening for meetings with Chinese quarantine and agriculture officials, he said.
The talks starting on Wednesday afternoon would focus on a ban China slapped on imports of poultry and poultry products from 10 U.S. states because of fears they carry a fowl plague known as highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI).
China's ban came to light on October 10 but has not yet been implemented as, U.S. sources said, Chinese officials decided to wait and hear first what the U.S. experts had to say.
The talks would initially centre on the technical and scientific aspects of the dispute, the Beijing source said.  
"We're trying to keep it that way so the trade issue does not come into it until the technical side has been presented," he said.
It would become a trade issue if the Chinese side did not accept U.S. scientific evidence "and if we feel they'll enforce a ban that has no technical or scientific basis," he said.
The U.S. side viewed as a favourable sign China's recent approval of two bovine semen centres and nine embryo transfer centres to import U.S. veterinarian technology, he said.
Bilateral meetings were also set for November on plant health, covering fruit imports, and on the long-simmering issue of wheat imports and a wheat fungus called TCK smut.
"And the secretary of state (Warren Christopher) is coming in November, so all of this is helping us negotiate better," the source said.
U.S. diplomats, agriculture officials and meat industry executives say HPAI does not exist in commercial U.S. flocks, having been eradicated in the mid-1980s.
They say China's Administration of Animal and Plant Quarantine (CAPQ) is confused about the difference between HPAI and avian influenza, or AI, which one source equated with the common cold.  
The HPAI virus was apparently detected in ostrich breeding stock in Texas destined for ostrich farms in China, and which were being inspected by CAPQ personnel.
Detection of the virus did not mean the bird was diseased, said a U.S. diplomat, likening it to a tuberculosis skin test.
The dispute threatens the United States' second biggest market after Russia for poultry and poultry products, and its only market for chicken feet, considered a delicacy in China.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled 330,000 tonnes trans-shipped through Hong Kong alone, worth US$445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
The council's representative in Hong Kong, Sarah Li, told Reuters that every day about 700 tonnes of U.S. chicken feet cross the border from Hong Kong into China.
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843-6470
One of China's most prominent dissidents, Wang Dan, will likely receive a harsh sentence for the charge of plotting to overthrow the government, his mother said on Tuesday.
Wang would plead not guilty to the capital charge when his trial at the Beijing Intermediate People's Court begins on Wednesday, said the dissident's mother, Wang Lingyun.
"The court...giving my son a harsh sentence even though he is innocent is very likely to happen," Wang Lingyun told Reuters. "I dare not rule it out."
She said court officials told her the verdict could be delivered as early as Wednesday or in two days, adding that family members have been under surveillance in recent weeks.
Wang Dan, 26, who vanished into detention in May 1995, faces a minimum of 10 years in prison and a maximum penalty of death for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government.
The court has refused to give details of Wang's trial other than that the dissident has been charged with plotting to overthrow the government. But one official has said Wang could appeal to the Higher People's Court if convicted.
The New York-based Human Rights Watch said last week the chances of an acquittal were slim because Wang has not had adequate time to prepare a defence.
The dissident's family has found a lawyer willing to defend the former student leader after being given just one day in which to do so.
The human rights group said Chinese criminal trials seldom respect the presumption of innocence, and defence lawyers are generally restricted to arguing mitigating circumstances for a reduced sentence.
Wang's court appearance would likely be held out of the public eye, as was last year's trial of Wei Jingsheng, regarded as the father of China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
The Chinese authorities have been quiet on a request by the U.S. Embassy in Beijing to send observers to Wang's trial, diplomats said.
French senator Robert Badinter, former U.S. attorneys general Nicholas Katzenback and Richard Thornburgh, and former Canadian solicitor-general Warren Allmand have also said they want to observe Wang's trial.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang on Tuesday shrugged off questions from reporters about the status of the requests, saying Wang's trial was China's internal affairs.
Beijing has repeatedly come under fire from the West for human rights abuses. It says foreign intervention in China's internal affairs is not welcomed.
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, would attend the trial as one of two defence lawyers. His father and a sister would be allowed to sit in.
The mother has said the dissident was calm and mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, although she has said his health has deteriorated during his detention.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He was active after his parole in 1993, defying persistent police surveillance to join a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of all those still in prison for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has recently cracked down on the few remaining dissidents who have not fled into exile or been jailed.
Hong Kong's post-1997 leadership campaign has begun in earnest with all the top candidates for the job as the territory's chief executive stating their positions on key issues in recent days.
The latest was Sir Ti Liang Yang, who on Monday made several policy statements including support for China's controversial plan to scrap the British colony's elected legislature.
With Britain's withdrawal and Hong Kong's reversion to Chinese rule 245 days away, would-be contenders to succeed Governor Chris Patten as the territory's top executive have sharpened their policy positions and revved up their campaigns.
"I think we have a real race in the sense that there is no chosen candidate in this contest," political expert Michael DeGolyer said on Tuesday.
DeGolyer, who heads a study on transition issues at a Hong Kong university, dismissed speculation that China had decided the outcome in advance and said rival Beijing factions were backing different Hong Kong personalities in the race.
"It's pretty clear they are backing different candidates in this contest," DeGolyer told a Hong Kong radio talk show.
The four main contenders among 31 nominees are Yang, shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa, businessman Peter Woo and ex-appeals court judge Simon Li.
Yang, who resigned as the territory's chief justice last month to vie for the chief executive slot, broke with government policy when he ended his silence on China's plans for the legislature, describing them as legal and necessary.
China plans to dissolve Hong Kong's elected Legislative Council (Legco) -- reversing Patten's democratic reforms -- and install an appointed "provisional legislature". Britain and Hong Kong's democratic camp hotly oppose the plan.
"In my view the provisional legislature has a legal basis and there is a necessity to establish it," Yang told reporters.
He said without it, there was a risk of a legal vacuum arising during the transition to Chinese rule.
But Yang rejected the idea of the new assembly operating in tandem with Legco in the run-up to the handover.
He also said the enactment of new laws on subversion and treason, to reflect the change of sovereignty, should be left to a future permanent legislature to handle.
Despite the campaign atmosphere, the territory's new leader will not be democratically elected but chosen by the secretive, Beijing-appointed Selection Committee, a panel of 400 people from Hong Kong that will make the choice next month.
The Beijing-controlled Hong Kong daily Ta Kung Pao on Tuesday called the process "a democratic election with Hong Kong characteristics", a play on China's label for its own political system, "socialism with Chinese characteristics".
Yang also said he was shedding his British knighthood and the corresponding title "Sir".
Over the past week all four front-runners have made clear they would not challenge China's tough line on key political issues such as the legislature, democracy, human rights and freedom of expression in Hong Kong.
"Why can't I access the Playboy Website?"
That, say computer experts, is one of the most common complaints from the growing number of Internet users in China.
China, which controls information more carefully than most countries in the world, is cautiously opening up access to the Internet, in spite of the problems raised by such an anarchically free information dissemination medium.
Officials said security filters were placed on the main Internet access servers in Beijing and Shanghai in the middle of this year and, after a testing period, restrictions on ordinary people opening Internet accounts have been removed.
The filters stop access to politically sensitive sites on the Internet's World Wide Web supporting such causes as independence for Tibet or release of Chinese political prisoners.
They also attempt, often unsuccessfully, to stop access to the thousands of sexually-explicit sites such as Playboy magazine's Web page.
"Our customers using the Internet have complained they can't get through to the some sites, particulary sites like Playboy," said a computer industry expert working in Shanghai. "You'd be surprised at how many customers we have calling about that."
Meanwhile, usage of the Internet in China is growing so fast that phonelines on the main services are often engaged all day and far into the night.
"Growth is out-running infrastructure investment, so the system is being inundated," the computer expert said.
"Popularity is no problem, it's super-popular, but the government is not re-investing the money at a fast enough rate. So there's still a lot of technical problems. People are having trouble with access and speed once they get on," he added.
A senior official with Shanghai's Post and Telecommunications Bureau said there were no longer any restrictions on Chinese people signing up for Internet access.
"Some time ago, our security arrangements were incomplete and there was a problem with pornographic and politically unacceptable material," said the official, Zhang Weihua.
"But our arrangements have been improved and new accounts are being added without restriction," he added.
Zhang said there were a total of 3,200 registered Internet accounts on the Shanghai server at the end of August with the number increasing at several hundred a month.
But there are indications that several other organisations are selling Internet access and the real number of users is probably much higher, analysts said.
Chinese users going through the two main servers can access the World Wide Web and use e-mail, but the Internet's freewheeling discussion news groups are restricted.
And while users are able to establish their own Web sites, they are not supposed to load the material onto the Web themselves, said an attendant at one of Shanghai's two new Internet Cafes.
"You must give us the files to allow for inspection and we will upload them for you," the attendant said.
Analysts said the main priority of the authorities at present seemed to be to control the number of lines through which the worldwide Internet material enters China to just two -- one in Beijing and one in Shanghai.
"There's is upposedly another line going through from (the southern city of) Guangzhou to Hong Kong, but for political reasons, Beijing wants to keep very tight control," said the computer expert.
"I think Beijing and Shanghai will continue to be the main filtering points because otherwise they can't filter it. If they have a lot of international links then you can forget about any kind of filtering," he added.
The question, he said, is whether the Chinese authorities can stay ahead of the ever-changing technology of the Internet and ahead of the ability of local computer whiz-kids to find ways round any barriers that are set up.
"Given the number of hackers in China, I would say there's no way in hell (they can stay ahead)," the expert said. "This is a country full of hackers. These guys have found so many holes in the (Chinese) servers it's ridiculous."
"The servers don't have the latest security equipment installed and these guys are brilliant. They can see all of our e-mails. I know there are people who have all our account names and passwords," he added.
Australia's largest listed aluminium producer Comalco Ltd reported on Monday a 72 percent slide in net profit for the first half of 1996, due to a weaker metal price and a stronger Australian dollar.
The lower than expected result saw metal analysts trim back their 1996 full-year profit estimates for Comalco, while investors wiped over five percent off the miner's share price.
Comalco, 67 percent owned by the world's largest mining group CRA Ltd/RTZ Corp Plc, reported a net profit of A$43.9 million (US$34.7 million) for the six months to June 30, 1996, down from A$155.1 million a year earlier.
"Lower primary aluminium prices, movements in the exchange rate, softer alumina markets and weaker alumina spot prices affected profit," Comalco chief executive Terry Palmer said in a statement.
The three-month aluminium contract traded on the London Metal Exchange has fallen nearly 13 percent to its current level of US$1,479.0 from the start of the year, while the Australian dollar has risen seven percent to around US$0.7900.  
Comalco's sales fell 31.6 percent to A$806.9 million for the half, due mainly to lower metal prices. The tough market conditions would continue into the second half, Palmer said.
"I think we are already a third of the way through the second half and I think we have got to expect it to be tough because even if the prices (of aluminium) improve next month it would be hard to get much gain out of it," Palmer told Reuters.
Shareholders are likely to be disappointed with the result, as the Melbourne-based miner slashed its dividend to three cents a share for the first half, from 12 cents a year ago. This was well below expectations of five to six cents a share dividend.
"It is a lot lower than what people were expecting," Macquarie Equities metals analyst Peter O'Connor told Reuters.
Investors reacted to the weak result by slicing five percent or 33 cents off Comalco's share price. The stock closed at A$7.10 on Monday, its lowest level since August 1.
Australian aluminium analysts said they would further cut their 1996 full-year profit forecast for Comalco, which produces about 17 percent of the nation's primary aluminium, 10 percent of the country's alumina and 21 percent of its bauxite.  
At the start of 1996, analysts forecast Comalco to report a net profit of between A$255 million and A$265 million for 1996, compared with the 1995 profit of A$232.3 million.
Lower metal prices and a stronger Australian dollar saw analysts trim their full-year forecast to around A$130 million prior to the half-year result.
But in light of Monday's six-month result, analysts further lowered their forecast to around A$90 million for the 1996 year.
"You would have to expect that numbers would be coming down to at least double of what the first half was," O'Connor said.
Two leading international satellite-television groups said on Wednesday they will overcome regulatory hurdles and enter Argentina, a country already heavily penetrated by pay-television and whose satellite-TV rights are held by a smaller rival.
"We intend to be there; it's key to our strategy," said Mark Goldman, a vice president of News Corp Ltd, at a Latin American investors conference sponsored by Kagan Seminars International.  
Kagan analyst Jimena Urquijo said Nahuelsat, a smaller direct-to-home (DTH) service owned in part by Argentine investors and Daimler-Benz AG of Germany, already sells satellite-TV services in Argentina and holds exclusive satellite-TV rights for the country.
"Both will have to deal with Nahuelsat," Urquijo said, referring to Galaxy Latin America and Sky Entertainment Latin America.  
Galaxy, owned by Hughes Electronics Corp of the United States, the Cisneros Group of Venezuela, Multivision of Mexico and TVA Abril of Brazil, and Sky Entertainment have satellite-TV services in other parts of Latin America and plan to expand.  Sky Entertainment is owned by multi-national News Corp, Tele-Communications Inc of the United States, Mexico's Grupo Televisa SA de CV and TV Globo of Brazil.
Erik Moe, vice president of Galaxy Latin America, said he expected his company would eventually enter Argentina.  
"We recognize that there's a regulatory environment which does not encourage DTH," Goldman said. "We are lobbying the (Argentine) government."  Neither executive gave a target date for entering Argentina, and Nauhelsat chief executive Eckart Schober declined to answer when asked if he expected DTH rivals to appear in Argentina.
Nahuelsat already sells a stripped-down, relatively low-cost DTH service in rural areas of Argentina outside Buenos Aires, a metropolitan area with more than one-quarter of the country's pay-television subscribers and served by such cable-television giants as Tele-Communications.  
Nahuelsat tailors its services to national and regional tastes, Schober said at the Kagan conference.
Urquijo said business fundamentals in the country are also daunting for the two big DTH groups, given that 52 percent, or more than four million, of Argentina's television homes already subscribe to pay television.  Nahuelsat itself is primarily targeting Argentine regions without cable or microwave television services.
"I'm not sure there's room for three competitors," Urquijo said.
By contrast, other parts of Latin America are much more open to DTH.   Only some 13.3 percent of Latin America's 80
million television homes now take any type of pay television, a much smaller share than in western Europe or the United States, according to the Kagan organization.
Satellite-television in the United States, the most heavily penetrated pay-television market in the world, with some two thirds of homes subscribing to cable, has been a huge success in just two years.  Millions of subscribers in both cities and areas without cable have paid $500 or more for receivers during the past two years.
-- 212-859-1713
Bay Networks Inc shares bounded higher on Wednesday on news the company had named a senior Intel Corp official as chairman and chief executive, a move analysts said could give Bay the strong hand it has lacked.
"It's quite a positive," said Bear Stearns networking analyst Eric Blachno of the long-time Intel executive David House's selection. "It's good to know the company is not going to be rudderless."  
Bay shares gained 1-3/4 to 20-1/8 on Wednesday, rising from their 52-week basement.
The shares were among the five most active on the NYSE.
Blachno said he will remain on the sidelines before once again backing the stock until he sees what strategies House may have in store to return Bay to prominence within the networking industry.
The analyst downgraded the stock to neutral from buy after Bay's last earnings report, which he said included "ominous" signs of trouble in the company switching business, which accounts for about 20 percent revenues.  
Bay's switch business has shown sequential declines in revenues for the last two quarters, even as rivals Cisco Systems Inc and 3Com Corp have delivered double-digit growth on larger revenue bases, Blachno noted.
Despite its reputation as a technology leader in the networking industry, Bay's finanical performance has marked it as a laggard within the group over the last several years.
By contrast, Cisco and 3Com have positioned themselves in front of an avalanche of demand for networking products and their shares have reflected that success.  
Wall Street analysts have complained that the company has suffered from a crisis of leadership in recent months.
Leadership has been an issue for Bay ever since it was formed by the merger of Wellfleet and Synoptics and 1994.
Analysts said difficulties encountered in combining the predecessor companies' product lines became magnified by an attempt to operate the companies out of headquarters on two coasts: in Santa Clara, Calif. and Billerica, Mass.
The hiring of David House as chairman, president and CEO consolidates in one leader's hands the role of chairman, which had been held by Paul Severino founder of Wellfleet, and former chief executive Andrew Ludwick, a founder of Synoptics.
Severino remains a director of the company and is expected to play an important role in defining technology strategy.
Ludwick resigned two weeks ago from the company, following several months of speculation that he planned to leave.
"We continue to believe Bay is going to be a long-term player and one of the leading companies in its industry," said Blachno, adding that, "Of course, it will take some time before the new leader maps his course."
-- Eric Auchard, New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Shares in Britain's second biggest supermarket chain J. Sainsbury Plc rose on Wednesday after the group held out hope of an improved performance despite a fall in half year profits and sluggish sales.
"The share price rise is a triumph of hope over statistics," said one sector analyst.
Sainsbury, which last year was overtaken as market leader by arch-rival Tesco, said half year pre-tax profits slipped, as analysts expected, to 393 million pounds ($637.4 million) from 456 million pounds in the same period last year.
Sainsbury also announced a dividend of 3.5 pence per share, up from 3.4 pence.
The company suffered its first fall in full year profits in 22 years when it reported in May. Pre-tax earnings before exceptional items fell 5.5 percent to 764 million pounds in the business year to March 9, 1996.
After Wednesday's results, several analysts cut forecasts for the current full year to 710-725 million pounds, a level some analysts were already predicting, market sources said.
But shares closed up 8.5 pence to 363.5 pence, in a market which was generally easier after an unexpected quarter-point rise in British interest rates.
The group said current sales from comparable stores, excluding petrol, were rising in line with inflation of around three percent, well below the 7.5-percent gain reported by Tesco in September.
A sector analyst who asked not to be named said "Sales moving in line with inflation is pretty disappointing, considering they've introduced the loyalty card."
The Reward card is now accounting for much of the increase in sales Sainsbury is currently seeing.
"Clearly, we want to do better (than three percent)", chairman David Sainsbury told Reuters. "This year will be about getting the basics right, next year will be about getting profits moving."
The company said marketing and operations initiatives along with the Reward card should continue to help boost sales and provide a strong Christmas season.
"We will be fighting on our traditional ground of quality and choice, along with customer loyalty," Sainsbury said.
Sainsbury, which last week announced plans to launch a bank with Bank of Scotland, said there would be another "major development" on Reward soon and that it would move to strengthen its leadership in quality and choice.
The group also said Dino Adriano, currently deputy chief executive of the supermarket business, will take over from Tom Vyner as chief executive of the unit on March 8 rather than at the end of 1997 as previously planned. ($1=.6165 Pound)
B.A.T Industries, reporting a nine percent rise in nine-month profits, on Wednesday ruled out a demerger of its tobacco business despite conceding that U.S. tobacco litigation was the main issue affecting its share price.
Chief executive Martin Broughton said the company did not see value in demerging the group into separate tobacco and financial services companies.
A strategy review showed "there was no value we could see that would be generated from a demerger," he told Reuters.
Profits in the nine months rose to 2.04 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) from 1.87 billion last time. Profits in the third quarter rose to 714 million from 680 million pounds.
Trading profit from financial services rose by three percent, and profits from tobacco were seven percent ahead.
Worldwide cigarette sales rose by three percent, although volumes were lower in the United States, a market where total industry sales were flat, the company said.
The growing pace of litigation claims against the company's U.S. cigarette subsidiary Brown &amp; Williamson (B&amp;W), and the U.S. industry in general, continues to unsettle investors and hurt B.A.T's share price.
B.A.T shares have fallen from a high of 585 pence on February 2 to below 430 pence, shedding nearly four billion pounds from the company's stockmarket value along the way.
Broughton said a demerger of Brown &amp; Williamson would be "highly destructive" of shareholder value, adding there was "no question" that the board of directors was united on the issue.
He also played down fears over U.S. litigation. Only a few cases actually get to court although many are filed, and the company was confident of winning its appeal in the high-profile Carter case, Broughton told a meeting of company analysts.
In the case of Grady Carter, of Orange Park, Florida, a jury in Jacksonville ruled in August that B&amp;W was negligent and made a dangerous and defective product. Carter smoked for 50 years until he was diagnosed with lung cancer.
B.A.T shares have fallen sharply since the Florida court decided to award damages of $750,000 to Carter.
Lawyer Woody Wilner, who acted for Carter in the Florida case, had promised to bring one case a month, but three have been postponed until next year and one dismissed, B.A.T said.
B.A.T was also confident of blocking the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's attempts to bring tobacco regulation into line with drugs and pharmaceuticals, said Broughton.
If the FDA proposals become law, cigarettes will be classified as "medical devices" and would have to meet rigorous safety and sales criteria.
Responding to a recent paper in the U.S Science Magazine which claims a direct link between smoking and lung cancer at cell level, Broughton said B.A.T had no internal research which proved smoking caused lung cancer or that smoking was addictive.
"We have not concealed, we do not conceal and we will never conceal," he said. There was still a lack of understanding of the mechanisms of diseases attributed to smoking, he added.
Turning to the business results, B.A.T said the seven percent rise in tobacco trading profit to 1.27 billion pounds was helped by strong sales growth in the Asia Pacific and the African, Middle East and Indian subcontinent regions.
In financial servies, B.A.T said its U.S. unit Farmers continued to have an excellent year. In Britain, the Eagle Star insurance division faced fiercely competitive conditions and profits fell to 162 million pounds from 194 million.
It also suffered a 91 million pounds charge for a surge in asbestos and pollution claims in the United States.
The life insurance and investment business reported a five percent increase in profit.
Shares in the company initially rose after the results, but later fell back to close at 427-1/2p pence, down 8-1/2p. ($1=.6223 Pound)
Glasgow-based Stakis Plc and Saudi billionaire Prince al-Waleed bin Talal are the likely purchasers of the Metropole and Princess hotel chains from Lonrho Plc, analysts said on Wednesday.
British conglomerate Lonrho, in the throes of a demerger, said last month it had received interest from potential buyers of the hotels and shelved plans to float them.
The London daily Financial Times reported on Wednesday that the sale of the chains for more than 650 million pounds ($1 billion) could be completed within the next fortnight. There was no immediate comment from Lonrho on the report.
Stakis, which has some 46 British hotels, has refused to comment on reports it planned to buy the five Metropole properties. But the hotels and casino group remains the clear favourite to clinch a deal.
"It would be an excellent fit for Stakis. It's just the size of the deal that could cause concern," said analyst Fraser Ramzan of Lehman Brothers.
Markets have speculated that Stakis was planning a rights issue to fund the purchase of the Metropole hotels, valued at about 350 million pounds.
The Metropole group comprises five business and conference hotels located in the British cities of London and Birmingham and the seaside towns of Brighton and Blackpool.
Hotelier Millennium &amp; Copthorne, floated in London this year, has effectively ruled itself out of the race. A company spokesman said Millennium had looked at the Metropole hotels but was not in talks to buy them.
Meanwhile. Prince al-Waleed is believed to be negotiating the purchase of the Princess chain, 10 properties of resorts in the United States, the Caribbean and Mexico.
Financial sources in the Gulf told Reuters this month that al-Waleed had exclusive rights to negotiate a deal at a price of $300 million. The prince has major investments in New York's luxury Plaza hotel, the Four Seasons hotel group, in the banking group Citicorp and Disneyland Paris theme park.
The hotel business is in a growth phase as economic recovery on both sides of the Atlantic help drive occupancy rates.
But there have also been a glut of hotel companies coming to Britain's market, with Jarvis Hotels and Thistle following the example of Millennium &amp; Copthorne.
And there are signs of investor indigestion, as witnessed by recent cancellations of stock market floats.
Analysts said investors were now looking much more closely at the merits of individual companies but said they still expected the sector to remain positive into 1997.
"Over the past year, people have become far more discerning about the type of hotel business they become involved in. But that does not mean they are reluctant to invest in the sector," said Greg Feehley of Kleinwort Benson.
And if that is the case, there is also no shortage of property on the market, with British media and leisure group Granada selling 17 luxury hotels in Britain and overseas.  The hotels, known as the Exclusive range, were acquired by Granada as part of the 3.9 billion pound takeover of leading British hotelier Forte last January.
American hotel companies ITT Sheraton and Marriott are reportedly among potential purchasers for the chain. A deal is expected to be concluded around the turn of the year.
Major mining companies may have second thoughts about teaming up with Bre-X Minerals Ltd in its huge Indonesian gold discovery because of Bre-X's new strategic alliance, analysts said.
Bre-X announced this week an alliance with PT Panutan Duta, an Indonesian company controlled by Sigit Harjojudanto, the son of President Suharto.
Part of the deal forms a support services company to be owned 60 percent by the Bre-X group and 40 percent by Panutan.  
"There will be certain companies that look at this and shake their heads," said mining analyst Doug Leishman of Yorkton Securities.
The support services company will provide utilities, petroleum products and limestone for the Busang gold discovery on the island of Kalimantan, Bre-X said.
The new company could have control over major parts of operating and capital costs, said Leishman.
"If these things aren't done at normal world market prices, it could add on unwarranted capital and operating costs," he said in a telephone interview from Vancouver.  
Any major mining company considering a bid for Bre-X would have to take into account the potential extra costs and the loss of control over supplies that the new alliance brings, he said.
Bre-X is in the middle of a search for a major mining company to act as its partner to help develop the Busang discovery.
"Certain major companies will not like this. It ties them to a supplier, and no one likes that," Leishman said.  
Canadian gold giants Barrick Gold Corp and Placer Dome Inc, both said they needed more details about the supply company before they could judge whether it would be a factor in bidding for Busang.
"Does this change things? Unless you know the details of the agreements, you don't know if this changes things or not," Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said in an interview. "It could and it could not."
Bre-X would not return repeated telephone calls this week to ask for details of the Panutan agreement.  
Analyst Catherine Gignac at Deacon Capital Corp said the agreement is vital to Bre-X's progress.
"I think it's something they should have done two years ago," she said in an interview. "You need a local company that's on side. You need local connections."
Bre-X stock shot up C$3.50 to C$24.30 on Monday after the alliance was announced, but has slid back to C$22.40 since then as investors began to realize that the Panutan deal does not solve all Bre-X's problems, analysts said.
Bre-X has been plagued by a dispute over the ownership of Busang. One of its Indonesian partners is claiming up to 40 percent of the discovery and has said he will not back down despite Bre-X's alliance with Suharto's son.
The Indonesian government has vowed not to issue essential contracts of work until Bre-X sorts out its problems. The alliance with Panutan is also contingent on Bre-X receiving the permits.
--Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100
Cocoa arrivals in Ivory Coast at the start of the 1996/97 season are slower than normal with exporters awaiting financing and warehouses filling up at the main port, Abidjan, exporters and shipping sources say.
"There is a problem of finding space in the port," the head of the exporters' trade body, GEPEX, Rene Ekra, told Reuters.
He and others say delays in issuing export licences and freight rates had blocked shipments of cocoa. Large consignments of cotton were also taking up port space, they added.
Exporters were also unable to secure bank finance without export licences and contracts.
"Some are financing buying operations themselves but up-country buyers are keeping busy," said a San Pedro exporter.
Ivory Coast opened its 1996/97 cocoa marketing season on October 24 with its farmgate price unchanged at 320 CFA per bagged kilo and the cocoa export tax down 10 CFA to 150, but has yet to set reference exporter rates and buyer commissions as well as freight rates.
"Arrivals are lower than normal but we should get back into a rhythm in the next couple of weeks," said the San Pedro exporter.
"We are hoping all rates will be out within a fortnight," said GEPEX President Ekra. He said 31 exporters were given licences last year but 1996/97 applicants were still waiting for government approval.
About 600 buyers were expected to be approved, he added.
Yves-Marie Koissy, new head of the Caistab cocoa marketing agency which grants licences and sets reference exporter and buyers' commission rates is expected to return from the United States in early November.
Precise arrival figures remain unclear. Market estimates range from 8,000 to 9,000 for San Pedro in the week to October 25 and over 7,000 tonnes for Abidjan.
"It is too early to get a clear picture of quantities. Wait until mid-November," said one exporter. "Last year, arrivals were 180,000 tonnes in November. I think it will be less this year but 950,000 tonnes for the whole year cannot be discounted," he added. "Bean sizes and quality are very good, around 95 per 100 grammes."
Early arrivals were also greater at San Pedro.
"Liberalisation of transport means it is cheaper to go to the nearest port. If San Pedro exported 30 percent of cocoa last year, it could well be 35 to 40 percent this year (1996/97)," said the San Pedro exporter.
Buyers around Daloa and Gagnoa said rains were regular with good sunshine. "There are plenty of flowers. But we need regular showers between now and December for a good April and March crop," said Daloa-based buyer Makkram Haddad.
Up-country buyers around Gagnoa and Daloa said some stocks were still held up-country because heavy rains in July, August and in some areas, September had made bush tracks impassable.
"We are buying 20 new three-tonne covered trucks to get through to farmers who cannot move their stocks," said Gagnoa buyer Hussaini "Some tracks have been repaired but there is a lot of damage and 15-tonne trucks are too big."
Buyers say they usually replace their trucks every two years. One truck importer told Reuters sales were rising.
Sunny weather south of Gagnoa in the past couple of weeks had dried many areas, Khaled and others said. Intermittent rain has continued north of Gagnoa.
Up-country sources said stocks of cocoa being held by buyers in centre-west and south-west areas around Soubre, Daloa, Duekoue and Guilgo would be taken to port when the full scale of marketing costs was known.
-- Abidjan Newsroom, + 225 21 90 90
Russia's untapped gold reserves are unlikely to become the El Dorado of the East soon despite Moscow's promises to liberalise the tightly-controlled sector, precious metals sources said on Wednesday.
Russia's Central Bank said earlier this week it was gearing up to create a domestic gold market via measures that would make it worthwhile for Russian commercial banks to finance mining.
But industry sources said the rules would do little to reform the world's fifth-largest gold producer with the world's third-largest reserves.
"It will take quite a while for commercial banks to take much of that market," said analyst Tony Warwick-Ching of CRU International in London.
The Central Bank's new rules would allow banks to trade gold domestically in a limited way through special precious metal accounts and to make and secure limited, gold-backed loans.
"Well, if after two and a half years, the central bank has come up with accounting procedures for gold transactions, then that is very good," said Yuri Kotlyar, acting chairman of the State Committee for Precious Metals and Stones (Komdragmet), whose functions are being reorganised.
"But this has nothing to do with creating an actual market, and that is what we need."
Russia's gold mines, even those run by foreign joint ventures, are required to sell their output to the state at fixed prices and are usually paid many months later.
The government, in a budget crisis and facing a tax revenue shortfall, has even less money this year to finance output and 1996 production will not better 1995's poor 125-132 tonnes.
Commercial banks financed only about five tonnes of output last year. Moscow has promised but done little to let banks with special licences take gold abroad to secure financing.
Analysts said Moscow feared losing control of its gold industry, which would be harder to track than other key sectors.
"The history of the (Russian) industry is partly driven by politics, not economics," said analyst Andy Smith of Union Bank of Switzerland in London.
Others said a tug-of-war for control was scaring investors.
The Central Bank, which shares responsibility for gold reserves with the Finance Ministry, wants more control over more gold reserves to support the rouble in the future.
But Interfax news agency quoted Deputy Finance Minister German Kuznetsov as saying the ministry, not the Central Bank, should have first crack at buying output and the state, not the private sector, should finance most mining.
Total, unspecified volume of Russian gold mined over January-September was nine-percent below year-ago levels, the State Statistics Committee said. Mining season ends in October as freezing weather emerges in Siberia and Russia's Far East.
And Russia will literally have to dig deep to tap its reserves. More than three quarters of Russian gold is in below-ground ore deposits.
More than half of all foreign-backed gold projects in the former Soviet Union are in Russia.
But none of the big ones, including the giant Sukhoi Log, the world's largest unmined reserve with a possible 1,800 tonnes, are at the production stage because of tax and royalty quibbles with the government.
-- Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
The Czech National Bank (CNB) has proposed merging savings bank Ceska Sporitelna, with foreign trade bank Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s.(CSOB), and then privatising the new megabank which would be the largest in post-Communist Eastern Europe.
CNB spokesman Martin Svehla told Reuters that the proposal was part of a wide-ranging plan to privatise major stakes in the "Big Four" Czech banks, which had been submitted to the cabinet to prepare the banks for stiffer foreign competition.
"Continuing with the privatisation of these banks has the aim of increasing the competitiveness of banks, to fit them more towards (entry into) the European Union and to increase their performance," Svehla said.
The CNB however proposed holding off on privatisation of the new combined Sporitelna and SOB for three to five years until the effects of the merger were analysed.
Analysts said the new bank, based on 1995 results, would have combined assets of roughly 540 billion crowns ($20 billion), making it by far the largest bank in Eastern Europe and over twice the size of the next largest bank, Komercni Banka.
It is not clear when the cabinet will debate the CNB proposals, but a senior central bank official said it might be on the agenda of next Wednesday's government meeting.
Jack Schrantz, equities analyst at Creditanstalt Prague, said the merger would bring economies of scale from necessary cuts in Sporitelna's and CSOB's bloated workforces.
"There's got to be a lot of overlap. In many of these departments you would see big staffing cuts," he said.
The CNB plan calls first for quick privatisation of the state's 31.5 percent in Investicni a Postovni Banka (IPB), a suggestion endorsed by the Finance Ministry earlier this month.
Nomura and Dutch ING NV are widely seen as potential partners for IPB, although top officials have declined comment on their possible interest in IPB.
The CNB plan proposes privatising shares in Komercni Banka -- seen as the plum of the Big Four in which the state holds a 49 percent stake -- only as a final step.
Svehla said the plan was written from the perspective of the CNB as a regulator, aiming to consolidate the strengths in the core of the the Czech banking system.
Whether it has the support of the full cabinet is still unclear. Privatisation of the Big Four has been a delicate political issue despite the country's reputation as the most aggressive post-Communist reformer.
Svehla said however that there was broad agreement in the CNB and the government on the need to go forward with privatisating remaining state stakes in the Big Four, which control more than 70 percent of the country's banking activity.
Ceska Sporitelna, in which the state still holds a 45 percent stake after the government's stock-for-citizens privatisation programme, is the largest state savings bank, where most Czechs kept their money during the communist era.
It still holds a majority of Czech retail deposits.
CSOB, born as a foreign trade bank in the former communist state system, is owned by a variety of Czech and Slovak state institutions including both central banks and the Czech National Property Fund, with small stakes privately held.
"I think it will take a lot of time to agree on the merger price (with Slovak institutions)," Schrantz warned. Slovak state institutions hold nearly 26 percent of CSOB shares
The daily Hospodarske Noviny quoted CNB governor Josef Tosovsky on Wednesday as saying large banks needed strong foreign partners which could cover share purchase from their own funds.
The market value of state stakes in the Big Four is about 55 billion crowns, according to the CNB, while the total value of Big Four shares is estimated at 111 billion crowns.
Such well-funded investors do not exist domestically, and the CNB wants to find them abroad through tenders.
Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik said earlier this month that he also wanted the state's stake in IPB to be the first to be privatised, and that a strategic foreign partner taking the stake would be the most likely option. ($ = 26.87 Czech Crowns)
The sentencing of Chinese dissident Wang Dan to 11 years in prison in Beijing on Wednesday sparked fears in Hong Kong about curbs on freedom when the territory reverts to China next year.
More than 100 demonstrators marched to China's diplomatic mission in Hong Kong to protest against the verdict and a human rights group vowed to lobby for a resolution to be passed at the United Nations condemning China's human rights record.
"Wang Dan is innocent. Release Wang Dan," protesters shouted as they marched to the headquarters of Xinhua news agency, Beijing's de facto embassy in the British colony.
There they joined other campaigners in a candle-lit gathering.
A Beijing court found the 27-year-old Wang guilty of conspiring to subvert the government after a trial lasting only four hours. Xinhua said the trial proved he had received funds from hostile overseas forces, aided the families of jailed dissidents and set up an "opposition force" by uniting illegal organisations.
Wang had earlier served four years for his role in the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing crushed by the army with heavy loss of life.
"We worry that the Chinese government (would) apply a similar standard in Hong Kong," legislator Bruce Liu of the Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood said.
Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten said: "I recognise the very considerable concern that many people in Hong Kong, and many people around the world, feel about a sentence imposed on a young man for activities which in most places, including Hong Kong, would be entirely legal."
"By any legal standards, today's trial of Wang Dan was a farce," said Robin Munro, director of the Hong Kong office of Human Rights Watch Asia.
"Clearly, its sole purpose was to put Wang Dan behind bars for as long as possible with the minimum legal fuss and bother."
While Hong Kong has been promised a high degree of autonomy for the next 50 years under a Sino-British handover treaty, many doubt whether the freedoms now enjoyed will be preserved.
Munro said his organisation would lobby the United States and European countries to pass a resolution at the United Nations condemning the human rights situation in China.
A Beijing court on Wednesday sentenced dissident and former student leader Wang Dan to 11 years in prison, the latest hammer-blow struck by China against its tiny band of pro-democracy activists.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court took less than four hours to convict Wang of plotting to subvert the government, but the young dissident's family quickly denounced the verdict and vowed to appeal.
"We are angry... He received such a heavy sentence even though he was innocent," Wang's father, Wang Xianzeng, said in a telephone interview after a brief meeting with his son at a Beijing detention centre.
"Wang Dan said he wants to appeal," he said. "Wang Dan feels everything that he has done has been above-board... it was all for China's democratisation."
Wang, 27, was sentenced to 11 years in prison and deprived of his political rights for a further two years, the Xinhua news agency said in a long report hailing the fairness of the trial.
"Sufficient evidence, which includes written materials, witness accounts, recorded tape and criminal technical appraisal, were shown at the court," the official agency quoted the trial's chief judge as saying.
"The evidence is conclusive," it quoted the verdict as saying. "(Wang) instigated people by saying that 'It is time we turn our words into actions'."
Wang, who vanished into detention in May 1995, had faced a maximum penalty of death and a minimum 10-year prison term.
One of the student leaders of the 1989 pro-democracy protests in Beijing that were crushed by the army, Wang had been one of the few members of China's dwindling band of dissidents not in exile or serving a long term in detention or prison.
A spate of arrests and detentions in recent months has left the pro-democracy movement reeling, analysts say.
Wang's conviction was a slap in the face for Western governments that have appealed to Beijing to improve its human rights record, diplomats in the Chinese capital said.
New York-based rights group Human Rights in China denounced the verdict as the result of a show trial that blatantly violated Chinese law and international standards.
Scores of police enforced tight security around the court building in western Beijing, keeping foreign journalists well away from a trial billed by officials as open to the public.
Less than 20 observers had been allowed in the court, said Wang's father, who was allowed to attend along with the dissident's older sister.
"Not one witness was summoned," he said. "The judge did not uphold the justice and dignity of the law... How can writing articles constitute a crime?"
The family would have 10 days to appeal upon receiving official notification of the verdict in about five days' time, he said, adding they were not optimistic the verdict would be overturned.
The 11-year sentence had been no surprise to the family or to Wang, who had been in good spirits during their 30-minute meeting after the trial, said his mother, a 61-year-old museum researcher who attended as one of two defence lawyers.
Wang, who once promoted free debate in the campus of the elite Beijing University, has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in the 1989 Tiananmen Square demonstrations.
He returned to political activism after his parole in 1993, defying police surveillance to join a daring appeal to Beijing's communist leadership for the release of those still jailed for their part in the 1989 protests.
Wang's father said his son's health had deteriorated during more than 15 months in detention, but added the former student activist believed he had done nothing to be ashamed of.
"He has a clear conscience," he said.
China's foreign debts reached $109.5 billion at the end of June but the governor of the central bank said the country was confident of paying its bills.
Governor of the People's Bank of China Dai Xianglong said the nation's foreign exchange reserves of about $96 billion -- among the biggest in the world -- were comfortable, but not excessive.
"We are very prudent in our borrowing," he said, adding that the level of debt measured against exports -- or the debt service ratio -- was well within international warning levels.
"On the whole the repayment situation is good," Dai told Reuters in an interview.
"It is hard to say exactly where the debt level will be next year, but every year an additional $10 billion is possible," he said.
He said $10 billion had been the average annual addition to the debt level over the past five years.
"For a country of China's size, (the level of foreign exchange reserves) is not a big sum," he said. "We can only say it is comfortable."
Most of Beijing's debt was long term, but China needed reserves sufficient to maintain repayments as well as to finance four months' worth of imports, he said.
Beijing also had new needs for foreign currency following the recent move to make the renminbi -- China's currency -- convertible on the current account.
He described China's repayment status as good, although he conceded there were repayment problems with enterprises under the direction of local governments.
"There are some local government-run enterprises that are overdue," he said.
But Dai also said foreign banks had a responsibility to ensure that credit went to deserving enterprises.
"Foreign creditors of Chinese enterprises must be selective in their lending," he said.
The central banker said he expected the renminbi to remain stable though he saw upward pressure on the Chinese currency, partly due to an expected trade surplus of more than $10 billion this year.
That would be down from the $16.7 billion surplus China recorded last year and much better than initial forecasts for 1996.
Economists say faster payments of export tax rebates have encouraged many companies to turn to the export market, thereby helping the trade picture.
The renminbi currently trades at about 8.3 to one dollar.
If foreign governments thought Beijing listened to pleas on human rights, they may have to think of new means of persuasion after a Beijing court jailed one of China's few dissidents still at liberty for 11 years on Wednesday.
In a trial lasting less than four hours, the Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court ensured that Wang Dan, the pale, thin student leader who topped China's most wanted list after the 1989 demonstrations for more democracy, would spend most of his young adult life behind bars.
The conviction of the 27-year-old democracy activist on the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government marked the disappearance of one China's few remaining dissidents into the Chinese gulag.
"It's really a slap in the face to those Western governments that have repeatedly asked China to improve its human rights record," said one Western diplomat.
He noted that the sentencing came just a week after a visit by German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel and amid preparations for a trip by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher in late November.
Another Western diplomat said China was not impervious to concerns about its human rights record raised by foreign governments, adding that it was possible that without foreign pressure such jail terms could be even longer.
Western diplomats said the swiftness of the trial and the severity of the sentence were part of a nationwide tightening of controls by the Communist Party.
"They may see deterrent value in a stiff sentence," said one Asian diplomat. "It dissuades other would-be Wang Dans from taking a similar course of action."
Diplomats said the sentence was remarkably light given the severity of the charges, which carried a maximum punishment of death and a minimum of 10 years in jail -- although the penalty was tough if the evidence was taken into consideration.
"This is not seriously heavy by the standards of the charges and the potential that existed," the second Western diplomat said. "But in the light of what we understand him to have done, yes, it's heavy... A sledgehammer to crack a walnut."
The verdict against the former most-wanted leader of the 1989 demonstrations for more democracy charged he received funds from overseas hostile forces, gave financial aid to families of jailed dissidents and tried to set up an "opposition force" by uniting illegal organisations.
"It's sort of difficult to see why they should be so frightened of this," the second Western diplomat said in a reference to China's communist rulers.
However, he said that in recent months Beijing had moved to virtually eradicate any remnants of China's struggling democracy movement.
"In the last few weeks the few remaining (dissidents) have either run away or been dealt with," he said referring to the sentencing of dissident Liu Xiaobo to three years in a labour camp and the escape to the United States of Wang Xizhe, his co-author of a call to impeach President Jiang Zemin.
"There is not very much left. The Chinese do have pretty tight control and they are making sure that they maintain it that way," he said.
"You can see a general sort of tightening up -- dissidents, religion, the Dalai Lama, crime, ideology -- you can just tick them off."
Billionaire investor Marvin Davis on Wednesday announced an $835 million bid for closely-held Carter-Wallace Inc., maker of Trojan condoms and Arrid deodorant.
Davis offered to buy outstanding stock of Carter-Wallace for $18 a share, reflecting a 50 percent premium over its recent trading price.
Carter-Wallace confirmed in a three-paragrpah statement that it received the offer, saying it would refer the bid to majority sharheolder The CPI Development Corp.
Shares of Carter-Wallace jumped $3.875 to $15.625 on NYSE, but remained below the $18 offer level due to market speculation that Carter-Wallace might be reluctant to sell.
"I think the board is going to be completely unreceptive to this," said one trader who specialises in takeover situations and spoke on condition he not be identified.
Based on Carter-Wallace's 46.39 million shares outstanding, the offer from the financier's Los Angeles-based Davis Companies was valued at $835 million.
Most traders gave the bid slim chance of succeeding because Carter-Wallace has previously expressed little interest in selling the company. Furthermore, insiders control about 82 percent of Carter-Wallace via common stock and a special class of shares.
"With all of that control, they can do a 'just say no defence'," said another stock arbitrager.
Carter-Wallace is dominated by members of the Hoyt family. Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Henry Hoyt Jr. is the son of the executive who took over management of the Carter Medicine Company in 1929. Family members hold other key positions.
Davis urged the company to consider its bid.
"While we recognise that controlling interest in the company's stock is held by the Hoyt family, we believe the company's board of directors will act responsibly and in the best interests of all the shareholders in considering our offer," Davis said in a news release.
Market sources speculated that Davis has been buying up shares of Carter-Wallace in recent weeks. A spokeswoman for Davis said he had a "material interest" in the company, but she declined to be specific.
The 70-year-old Davis is well-known on Wall Street for his corporate investments.
A former chairman of Paramount, he recently was one of several dissident shareholders of Mesa Inc. who tried to wrest control from oilman T. Boone Pickens. Pickens has since passed the baton to financier Richard Rainwater. The Davis spokeswoman said he is no longer involved with Mesa.
Davis also is developing a riverboat casino and entertainment centre in Boonville, Mo.
Carter-Wallace has long been viewed on Wall Street as an acquisition candidate. At the company's meeting in July, some shareholders criticised its low stock price but a shareholder proposal to consider a merger was rejected.
Just last month, Carter-Wallace named Ralph Levine to the position of president and chief operating officer of the company. Levine, who had been vice president, secretary and general counsel, was named to replace a retiring executive.
In 1994, the company ran into trouble when the federal Food and Drug Administration advised physicians to stop prescribing its Felbatol epilepsy drug due to links with a bone marrow disorder.
McDonnell Douglas Corp said Wednesday it was cooperating with a federal investigation into the sale of $5 million of used machine tools to China, which diverted the equipment to the site of a military plant.
"We're confident that the current investigation will show that McDonnell Douglas violated no laws in the sale of this surplus equipment to the Chinese," said Larry McCracken, vice president of corporate communications.
He said the machine tool sale was not directly linked to a 1994 agreement for 40 aircraft to be co-produced by the St. Louis-based aerospace company and its Chinese partner.  
McCracken said he did not know the focus of the federal investigation into the machine tools, which had been shipped to China between November 1994 and February 1995. But he acknowledged that there were allegations the Chinese had intended all along to divert the equipment for military use.
The sale to China of certain equipment, such as machine tools and presses, requires U.S. government approval and assurances that it will not be used for military purposes.
"We believe that we followed all the rules and regulations...," McCracken said.  
The problem with the machine tools focuses on when McDonnell Douglas learned that some equipment had been shipped to Nanchang, where China has a military plant, instead of being stored in Beijing, as stipulated by the U.S. export license.
McCracken said the company learned of the diversion in March 1995 when investigating the whereabouts of the shipment, and then notified the U.S. Government.  
Nanchang, where some of the equipment was found, was also the site of a Chinese commercial plant. McCracken said it is possible the Chinese could have misunderstood the regulations governing  all of the machine tools.
According to a report in the New York Times Wednesday, U.S. government officials say there was evidence that some company officials may or should have been aware before March 1995 that China would not house the equipment in Beijing.  
In response to that allegation, McCracken reiterated that McDonnell officials did not learn of the shipments to Nanchang until March 1995.
As for allegations that McDonnell Douglas officials should have known about the shipments, McCracken said the equipment was meant for a joint venture between China and another U.S. aerospace firm.
That joint venture was never established.
McCracken said negotiations followed between McDonnell Douglas, the Chinese government and U.S. officials, and the export license for the machine tools was amended in February 1996. Under the amended license, the equipment was shipped to Shanghai to be used to build commercial aircraft under the McDonnell Douglas co-production agreement.
Merrill Lynch analyst Byron Callan said he does not expect the investigation to have an impact on McDonnell Douglas's aircraft business.
"I don't think it's a big deal from a corporate point of view," Callan said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers resumed contract negotiations Wednesday under the threat of additional strikes as local walkouts continued in Wisconsin and Indiana.
Bargainers reconvened at GM's headquarters here Wednesday morning but GM spokesman Charles Licari declined to say if GM Chairman Jack Smith was directly involved in the talks.
"Talks are taking place at all levels," Licari said.
About 2,750 members of United Auto Workers Local 23 struck GM's Indianapolis metal stamping plant Tuesday night and 4,800 workers also walked off the job at GM's Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant.
UAW spokesman Reg McGhee said no other local strikes had started as of Wednesday morning, but said the union was not ruling out other actions. UAW President Stephen Yokich raised the threat of local strikes on Monday after the union's national contract with GM expired.
"Steve made it clear that without a national contract, the locals are on their own," McGhee said, noting that they do not have to provide GM with the typical five-day notice before a walkout.
Although UAW officials said the strikes were called over local issues, the actions increased pressure on GM for a national agreement by threatening to paralyse much of the lucrative light truck operations at the world's largest automaker.
The local walkouts thus may nudge GM into a tentative national agreement before Saturday, when the UAW's 250-member National GM Council is scheduled to meet in Detroit. The council, made up of plant-level leaders, would have to approve any agreement.
A major sticking point in the national talks covering 215,000 workers is the future of 12 domestic parts plants GM considers uncompetitive. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs.
A national agreement probably would also require the signatures of Smith and Yokich. McGhee said Yokich was not at GM headquarters Wednesday morning but was involved in the talks. "His physical presence is not demanded for every meeting we have with GM," McGhee said.
Workers at all of GM's truck and truck parts plants have been working heavy overtime in recent months, putting a strain on workers and leading to union demands for relief. For example, at the Janesville plant, which makes the Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles, UAW Local 95 has pressed GM to hire a third shift of workers.
The Indianapolis plant supplies doors, fenders, hoods and other parts to nine of the automaker's 11 North American truck assembly plants. At least some of those plants likely will have to halt operations within days due to parts shortages.
Only a handful of GM's 123 local units have signed new local contracts with the automaker. The pacts typically cover items such as work rules, staffing levels and health and safety standards, while the national agreement covers wages, benefits, job security and other broad issues.
While GM has refused to identify the plants it wants to sell, the list includes a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., officials said. Together, the plants employ 2,100 UAW members.
The local strikes mark a departure in Yokich's bargaining strategy, which until last week had been marked by unusually conciliatory remarks and virtually no strike threats.
The walkouts also came less than a week after Canadian Auto Workers members returned to work following a three-week strike over the issues of job security and shifting work to outside contractors.
The United Auto Workers union unleashed two local strikes against General Motors Corp.'s truck operations Tuesday night in bids to boost pressure on the automaker for new national and local labor agreements.
About 2,750 members of UAW Local 23 walked off the job at GM's Indianapolis metal stamping plant at about 6 p.m. EST, followed an hour later by 4,800 workers who struck the automaker's Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant.
The negotiations at GM's Detroit headquarters were scheduled to resume Wednesday morning after adjourning for the night around 9 p.m. EST Tuesday.
GM spokesman Jerry Holmes said the automaker had no formal response to the walkouts, which threaten to paralyze much of GM's light truck production, the automaker's biggest source of profits.
The Janesville plant builds GM's popular Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. The Indianapolis plant supplies doors, fenders, hoods and other sheet-metal stampings to nine of the automaker's North American truck assembly plants.
All of GM's truck-related plants have been working heavy overtime in recent months, and the increasing workload has put a strain on workers.
UAW President Stephen Yokich had raised the threat of local strikes Monday after intense negotiations over the weekend failed to produce an agreement. He also chided GM for a lack of progress in local negotiations at individual plants.
He said the expiration of GM's national contract covering 215,000 UAW workers Sunday meant that local units were free to strike to get local issues resolved.
Union officials also said there could be other local walkouts in the near future.
"I'm the one who called this strike," Ron Gettelfinger, UAW regional director, said of the Indianapolis walkout. He added that the action was aimed solely at resolving local issues, which he refused to identify.
In Janesville, UAW Local 95 said in a statement that it, too, struck over local issues because 44 bargaining sessions failed to produce an agreement with the automaker.
Only a handful of GM's 123 local units have signed new local contracts with the automaker. The pacts typically cover items like work rules, staffing levels and health and safety standards, while the national agreement covers wages, benefits, job security and other broad issues.
Bargainers in the national talks reconvened at GM's headquarters here Tuesday after a day off Monday. Still on the table is the future of 12 U.S. parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive, the company's top components executive confirmed Tuesday.
J.T. Battenberg, president of GM's Delphi Automotive Systems division, told reporters at an automotive supplier conference here that none of the 12 factories have improved their performance enough in recent months to be dropped from the company's list of troubled facilities.
GM has refused to identify the plants, but the list includes a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that the automaker intends to sell. Together, the plants employ 2,100 UAW members.
The automaker wants to exclude several of the plants from the union's demand that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of its UAW workforce over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern that allow it to cut costs.
The strikes mark a major departure in Yokich's bargaining strategy, which until last week had been marked by unusual conciliation and virtually no strike threats.
The walkouts could help pressure GM into a tentative national agreement before Saturday, when the UAW's 250-member National GM Council is scheduled to meet in Detroit. The council, made up of plant-level leaders, would have to approve a plant.
The walkouts also came less than a week after Canadian Auto Workers members returned to work following a three-week strike over the issues of job security and outsourcing, or the shifting of work to outside contractors.
GM also said Tuesday that 22,913 workers in its U.S. assembly, powertrain and stamping operations remained idle because of lingering shortages of Canadian-made parts.
The automaker said it laid off an additional 465 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, metal stamping plant Tuesday, one of four such plants still affected by shortages.
The United Auto Workers union unleashed two local strikes against General Motors Corp.'s truck operations Tuesday night in a bid to increase pressure for new national and local labor agreements.
About 2,750 members of UAW Local 23 walked off the job at GM's Indianapolis metal stamping plant at about 6 p.m. EST, followed an hour later by 4,800 workers who struck the automaker's Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant.
The strikes threaten to paralyze much of GM's light truck production, the automaker's biggest source of profits.
The Janesville plant builds GM's popular Chevrolet Tahoe, Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. The Indianapolis plant supplies doors, fenders, hoods and other sheet-metal stampings to nine North American truck assembly plants.
GM spokesman Jerry Holmes said the automaker had no formal response to the walkouts, but said negotiations were continuing Tuesday night.
UAW President Stephen Yokich raised the threat of local strikes on Monday after intense negotiations over the weekend failed to produce an agreement. He also chided GM for a lack of progress in local negotiations at individual plants.
The expiration of the GM's national contract covering 215,000 UAW workers on Sunday meant that UAW locals were free to resort to strikes to get local issues resolved, Yokich said.
"I'm the one who called this strike," UAW regional director Ron Gettelfinger said of the Indianapolis strike. He added that the walkout was aimed solely at resolving local issues, which he refused to identify.
All of GM's truck-related plants heen working heavy overtime in recent months, which has put a strain on workers.
"General Motors are hard people to deal with," said Henry Summerville, a worker at the plant. "They don't like to give up anything."
In Janesville, UAW Local 95 said in a statement that it also struck over local issues because 44 bargaining sessions failed to produce an agreement.
Only a handful of GM's 123 locals have signed new local contracts with the automaker. The pacts typically cover items like work rules, staffing levels and health and safety standards, while the national agreement covers wages, benefits, job security and other broad issues.
Bargainers in the national talks reconvened at GM's headquarters here Tuesday after a day off Monday.
Still on the table in the talks is the future of 12 U.S. parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive, the company's top components executive confirmed Tuesday.
"We're talking about them in negotiations and I really don't want to talk about any labor issues at this time," said J.T. Battenberg, president of GM's Delphi Automotive Systems division.
Battenberg told reporters at an automotive supplier conference here that none of the 12 factories have improved their performance enough in recent months to be dropped from the company's list of troubled facilities.
GM has refused to identify the plants, but the list includes a door hinge and hardware plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that the automaker intends to sell. Together, the plants employ 2,100 people.
The automaker wants to exclude several of the plants from the union's demand for employment guarantees. The UAW wants GM to follow a pattern set by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. and guarantee jobs for 95 percent of its UAW work force over the next three years.
The strikes mark a major departure in Yokich's bargaining strategy, which until last week had been marked by unusual conciliation and virtually no threats of strikes.
The walkouts could help pressure GM into a tentative national agreement before Saturday, when the UAW's National GM Council is scheduled to meet in Detroit. The 250-member council is made up of the top local officials from each GM local and plant bargaining unit.
Earlier Tuesday in New York, GM Chairman Jack Smith told reporters that he hoped there would be no local strikes.
The walkouts also came less than a week after Canadian Auto Workers members returned to work following a three-week strike over the issues of job security and outsourcing, or the shifting of work to outside contractors.
GM said Tuesday that 22,913 workers in its U.S. assembly, powertrain and stamping operations remained idle because of lingering shortages of Canadian-made parts.
The automaker said it laid off an additional 465 workers at its Lordstown, Ohio, metal stamping plant Tuesday, one of four such plants affected.
ClinTrials Research Inc expects to continue to expand revenues 35 to 45 percent per year, thanks to growing use by major pharmaceutical companies of outside research help and market share gains by the firm -- the world's fifth-largest contract research concern.
"We can grow at the 35-45 percent rate over the next several years and be able to handle it," said chief executive William O'Neil on Tuesday in remarks to investors at a Robinson-Humphrey investors conference here.
Later, in an interview with Reuters, O'Neil said the Nashville, Tenn.-based company estimates that drug and biotechnology companies spend $10 to $11 billion annually on research and development.
About $2.5 billion, or roughly one quarter, is outsourced to companies such as ClinTrials and rivals, including the Corning Research unit of Corning Inc and Quintiles Transnational Corp. "Five years ago, only five percent was outsourced. So it's been growing very rapidly," O'Neil said.
Moreover, he said, R&amp;D spending is growing about 10 percent annually and ClinTrials is taking market share from smaller contract researchers. "Of the additional dollars being spent, more is being shifted to us," he said.
ClinTrials recently acquired BioResearch Laboratories Inc, of Montreal, for $65 million. The acquisition was immediately accretive to earnings and effectively reduced ClinTrials' tax rate thanks to Canadian laws under which BioResearch pays no taxes, O'Neil said.
Without another major acquisition, ClinTrials likely will stay for now in the fifth-largest position in the contract research market, he said. Although he would not rule out another major deal, O'Neil said one is not in the offing.
Eighty percent of revenues for the company come from major drug companies, with biotech firms and medical device manufacturers making up the balance.
When such companies develop a new compound or device they hope may be marketable, they must test it through an extensive series of clinical trials. Animal subjects are first used. Later human patients become involved. All tests have to be conducted under standards set out by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other government regulators.
When launched in 1990, ClinTrials handled portions of research work that had overflowed the capacities of drug and biotech firms. Today, O'Neil said, ClinTrials finds itself increasingly built into the R&amp;D budgets of clients.
Last week, ClinTrials for the third quarter reported profits of $2 million, or $0.18 per share, on revenues of $25.4 million. In the year-ago period, profits were $979,000, or $0.11 per share, on revenues of $16 million.
Shares in the company closed up 1/2 at 38 on Tuesday.
Nearly one quarter of ITT Automotive Inc's workers around the world will be paid a combined hourly and benefit rate of less than $10 an hour by 2000, the company's top executive said Tuesday.
ITT Automotive, a unit of ITT Industries Inc  paid 15 percent of its 35,000 workers less than $10 an hour in 1995, and 10 percent that amount in 1990, said Timothy Leuliette, president and chief executive officer of ITT Automotive.
The numbers, provided by Leuliette at the Automotive Industries' Executive Management Conference, were offered as another illustration of how auto suppliers need to continue slashing costs if they expect to remain an independent player in the fast-changing industry.
"Do we do that because we're mean?" Leuliette said of the falling rates. "No. We did that because we have to promise our customers a 3-4 percent price reduction."
Leuliette spoke as part of a panel discussion with J.T. Battenberg, president General Motors Corp's Delphi Automotive Systems, and Robert Oswald, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Robert Bosch Corp's U.S. automotive unit.
Asked how much a supplier should expect to pay workers, Leuliette said the global hourly rate for labor-intensive assemblies such as wiring harnesses is $1 to $2. More technical products are made for $10 to $12 an hour.
"If you are regionally competitive but not globally competitive, you will unlikely be a supplier to ITT," he said.
Battenberg had three areas of advice for suppliers: focus on a few product areas; continuously stress quality; and pursue international alliances with other suppliers to expand more efficiently.
"I just don't think you can be all thing to all people. It's a lesson we learned at General Motors the hard way," Battenberg said.
Oswald said suppliers need to be more than good product innovators. "At Bosch, we believe that our performance as a supplier is not based just on innovation, but also that weare meticulous in bringing that innovation to production," he said.
Meantime, Leuliette said in 2000 suppliers to ITT can expect to receive 80 percent of what they are paid now for their products.
He noted the supplier industry is under such pressure to reduce costs that firms need between eight percent and nine percent productivity growth in order to keep their present level of employees.
TheraTx Inc does not expect the federal government to implement new guidelines for certain key Medicare reimbursement rates until the summer of 1997, postponing until then any likely damage to the health care services concern's profitability.
"It's a government reimbursement change which is forthcoming. It will definitely pressure our earinings, there's no doubt about it," chief financial officer Donald Myll said in an interview.  
Like other companies that provide rehabilitation services to patients mostly in nursing homes, TheraTx has been waiting for two years for action from Washington on the reimbursement issue.
The company's stock has been depressed during that time by a market unjustifiably focused on one issue, Myll said following a presentation to investors at a Robinson-Humphrey conference here on Tuesday.
"At this point, I'd rather have bad news on salary equivalency than what we have now, which is no news," Myll said, referring to the issue.  
Public since 1994, Alpharetta, Ga.-based TheraTx operates 29 nursing homes and provides rehabilitation services on contract to dozens of other nursing homes companies. The firm also runs several occupational health clinics.
The rehabilitation division provides about 45 percent of revenues and offers three main forms of therapy: speech, occupational and physical.  
Most revenues in the rehabilitation area come from Medicare, the federal healthcare program for the elderly. The U.S. Health Care Financing Administration, which oversees Medicare, has been rewriting its reimbursement rules for speech, occupational and physical therapy since October 1994.
If HCFA proceeds with its latest set of reforms, TheraTx could see 1997 earnings come in flat to down compared to this year's level, Myll said.
Much remains to be determined, however, he said. Moreover, despite market concerns, the potential earnings hit from the changes is not large enough to hurt TheraTx seriously, he said.  
"There's no real threat. It's a one-time pricing issue.... The market has no clue on this," Myll said.
TheraTx on Tuesday reported third-quarter profits of $0.29 per share, up from $0.26 per share a year ago. The First Call consensus earnings forecast for the third quarter was $0.30 per share.
"The general performance of the company is on track. Whether (1996 per-share net) is $1.17 or $1.12 is not for me to say...but I would guess that analysts are probably going to revise their estimates downward because the third quarter was a couple pennies below the consensus," Myll said.
The First Call 1996 earnings estimate range is $1.15-$1.20 per share.
TheraTx shares closed Tuesday up 3/8 at 10-1/2.
Britain's second biggest supermarket group J. Sainsbury Plc reported a fall in half year profits as expected on Wednesday and sluggish sales.
But the company, which last year was overtaken as market leader by arch-rival Tesco, held out the hope of improvements, and its shares rose.
Sainsbury said half year pretax profits slipped to 393 million pounds ($631.5 million) from 456 million pounds in the same period last year and is paying out a dividend of 3.5 pence per share, up from 3.4 pence.
The company suffered its first fall in full year profits for 22 years when it reported in May.
Its shares were up 11 pence to 366 pence by 1120 GMT, however, just off a high of 367 pence.
"The share price rise is a triumph of hope over statistics," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
The group said current sales from comparable stores, excluding petrol, were rising in line with inflation of around three percent, well below the 7.5 percent gain reported by Tesco in September.
"Clearly we want to do better (than three percent)", chairman David Sainsbury told Reuters.
"This year will be about getting the basics right, next year will be about getting profits moving," David Sainsbury said.
"Sales moving in line with inflation is pretty disappointing considering they've introduced the loyalty card," said one sector analyst who asked not to be named.
The company was forced to introduce its Reward loyalty card offering special deals for regular customers four months ago after Tesco's ClubCard helped it to beat Sainsbury to the market leader slot, and it is now accounting for much of the sales uplift.
Sainsbury said marketing and operations initiatives along with the Reward card should help to boost sales and the company said it was looking forward to a strong Christmas season.
"We will be fighting on our traditional ground of quality and choice, along with customer loyalty," David Sainsbury said.
Sainsbury, which last week announced plans to launch a bank with Bank of Scotland, said there would be a further "major development" on Reward soon and said it would move to strengthen its leadership in quality and choice.
The group said Dino Adriano, currently deputy chief executive of the supermarket business, will take over from Tom Vyner as chief executive of the unit on March 8 rather than at the end of 1997 as previously planned.
Analysts have been waiting for Adriano to show himself as a rising star but so far he remains largely unproven, they said.
The company said it intended to boost its sales area by 6.4 percent this year, which David Sainsbury said "enormously helps in driving forward market share."
Despite sluggish sales growth, Sainsbury managed to increase market share during the first half to 12.5 percent from 12.3 percent and still has the highest sales per square foot of the big four retailers, including ASDA and Safeway.
At the same time, the group is now breaking even on petrol sales after a fierce price war triggered losses which helped to erode first half gross margins by 0.8 percent of sales.
"There's relief that it was not even worse and Sainsbury carries an enormous amount of goodwill, but sentiment could still go either way," one analyst said. ($1=.6223 Pound)
British tobacco and insurance company B.A.T Industries reported a nine percent rise in nine-month profits on Wednesday but conceded U.S. tobacco litigation was the dominant issue affecting its share price.
Profits in the nine months rose to 2.04 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) from 1.87 billion last time. Profits in the third quarter rose to 714 million from 680 million pounds.
Trading profit from financial services rose by three percent, and profits from tobacco were seven percent ahead.
Overall cigarette sales rose by three percent, although volumes were lower in the United States, a market where total industry sales were flat, the company said.
Chief executive Martin Broughton told a meeting fo share analysts, "...the dominant issue affecting the share price for B.A.T Industries currently is U.S. litigation, regulation and indeed science."
The growing pace of litigation claims against the company's U.S. tocacco subsidiary Brown &amp; Williamson, and the U.S. industry in general, continues to unsettle investors and hurt B.A.T's share price.
B.A.T shares have fallen from a high of 585 pence on February 2 to around 434 pence, shedding nearly four billion pounds from the company's stockmarket value along the way.
But Broughton said the company did not see value in demerging the group into separate tobacco and financial services companies.
He told Reuters that a recent strategy review showed "there was no value we could see that would be generated from a demerger."
Chairman Lord Cairns said in the results statement that the company had never kept from the public any conclusions showing that smoking causes diseases.
Broughton, responding to a recent paper in Science Magazine in the U.S. which claims a direct link between smoking and lung cancer at cell level, told analysts the company had no internal research which proved that smoking caused lung cancer, or that smoking was addictive.
He said there was still a lack of understanding of the mechanisms of diseases attributed to smoking.
Turning to the business results, B.A.T said the seven percent rise in tobacco trading profit to 1.27 billion pounds was helped by strong sales growth in the Asia Pacific and African, Middle East and Indian subcontinent regions.
In financial servies, B.A.T said its U.S. unit Farmers continued to have an excellent year. In Britain, its Eagle Star insurance division faced fiercely competitive conditions and profits fell to 162 million pounds from 194 million.
The life insurance and investment business reported a five percent increase in profit.
Shares in the company initially rose after the results, but later fell back to show a loss of 2-1/2 pence by 1130 GMT.
"The numbers are almost exactly in line with expectations, in fact if anything towards the top end of the range," said BZW analyst Nyren Scott-Malden. ($1=.6223 Pound)
America Online Inc., responding to the competion posed by the Internet, said Tuesday it would reorganize its business and unveiled a flat-rate $19.95-a-month pricing plan.
The world's biggest online services company said it was taking $460 million in charges this year as it restructures its operations.
As part of its reorganization, AOL plans to separate into three operating units -- AOL Networks, to oversee its flagship Internet online service; AOL Studios, for creating online programming; and ANS Communications, its network arm, the Dulles, Va.-based company said.
AOL said it would begin offering a number of new pricing options, including a flat monthly rate of $19.95 for unlimited access. The pricing action, which was widely expected, matches the recent pricing by Microsoft Corp. when it re-launched the Microsoft Network and the rates of Internet access providers.
As part of its restructuring, AOL named Robert Pittman, former chief exectutive of MTV Networks, to oversee AOL Networks. Pittman, most recently chief executive of Century 21 Real Estate Corp., had forged MTV into the first profitable basic cable network company.
Pittman also headed Time Warner's Inc.'s Six Flags amusement park chain, where he oversaw four straight years of record growth in attendance, revenues and earnings, AOL said.
The company said it was taking a $385 million charge in its fiscal first quarter, which ended Sept. 30, to account for deferred subscriber acquisition costs, an accounting method for which it has been heavily criticised by Wall Street.
AOL also said it plans to take a one-time charge of up to $75 million in the current quarter for costs it expects to incur as it reorganizes.
AOL's stock, which recently moved to the New York Stock Exchange from the Nasdaq market, jumped $1 to $25.675 and it was among the most active issues on the NYSE, as Wall Street applauded its rejigging of its accounting methods.
"We are moving to remove this distraction from earnings," AOL Chairman Steve Case told reporters on a conference call. "The focus here is to simplify how people really look at this business. We are confident that people will see the underlying momentum."
Analysts do expect some pressure on the company's gross profits as a result of the new pricing, but they said the moves were necessary to compete with the growing pressures from Internet access providers and to keep its subscribers.
AOL expects to report a second fiscal quarter loss, break-even in the March quarter and return to profitability in the quarter ending in June, its fourth fiscal quarter.
"It's a very bold, clever and necessary set of moves by America Online to get their financial house in order and reposition themselves as a diversified media company," said Adam Schoenfeld, a vice president at Jupiter Communications.
"AOL was for a long time able to ignore the going rate and market vicissitudes because of its pre-eminent position, but those positions only last so long," Schoenfeld added.
AOL said the company added nearly 250,000 net new subscribers in October as it began to address some of the customer retention problems it encountered during the traditionally slower summer months.
Case said the company was still on target for reaching its 10 million subscribers sometime during calendar 1997.
"The phones have been ringing off the hook today from people who are eager to subscribe to the new AOL," Case said. "We now believe we have the strategy in place and a team in place to take AOL to the next level."
Ted Leonsis, who currently heads AOL Services Co., was named to head the newly formed AOL Studios, and Bruce Bond, hired this year to lead ANS Communications, will continue in his current role with that unit.
AOL said its new, more competitive pricing structure would take effect immediately.
The plans calls for two unlimited pricing tiers to provide a "comfort factor" for heavy and medium users, and a $4.95 plan for light users. AOL said it will offer a standard monthly plan for unlimited AOL use, including Internet access, for $19.95.
It will also offer advance-payment rates of $14.95 a month for customers who pay for two years, and $17.95 per month for those who pay in advance for one year.
The company also said it will charge a "bring-your-own-access" rate of $9.95 per month, offering unlimited access to the proprietary content available only on AOL to people who already have a separate Internet access connection.
AOL will also offer a light-usage programme providing three hours of AOL a month for $4.95, with additional time priced at $2.50 per hour.
Soaring Internet usage is bringing the United States phone system perilously close to gridlock by tying up millions of local phone lines every evening, say industry experts and analysts.
"It is like gridlock on a highway: If you are close to capacity, traffic still moves slowly, but just add a few more vehicles and you get gridlock," said Amir Atai, director of network and traffic performance at BellCore.
With Internet use rising at 42 percent a year, according to industry studies, phone capacity simply cannot keep pace.
"This type of (Internet) usage on our network is growing at 10 percent a month and we are watching it closely," said NYNEX Corp. spokeswoman Susan Butta.
For phone networks, gridlock means fewer calls going through on the first try, more busy signals and even blocked calls, where perplexed callers hear nothing at all after dialing.
The bottleneck is essentially confined to local networks, and does not affect long distance carriers, experts say.
Industry studies suggest that if U.S. Internet penetration reaches 15 percent, it would force a $22 billion network investment by the regional Bell phone companies to support it. California currently has the highest penetration at eight percent.
"We think action is required within two years," when the 15 percent figure is expected to be reached, said Atai.
Short-cut solutions exist, such as using filters to sort Internet calls from others based on their destination number.
If that idea catches on, it could open a huge market for firms like Lucent Technologies Inc. and Northern Telecom Ltd., which make the filters.
But regional Bells, indignant that Internet service providers do not have to pay access charges to reach Bell customers as long distance companies do, are reluctant to pay to sort out the problem.
"Bell switch ports are being tied up and they're not even being compensated for it," said David Goodtree, an industry analyst with consultancy Forrester Research.
The problem has swept like a tide from California, where Pacific Telesis Group (PacTel) already has major problems, to major cities and even some suburban areas.
"We found the problem is very severe in California and east coast metropolitan areas. It is beginning to appear in some other areas," Atai told Reuters.
The congestion could be a boon to cable TV operators in the fight for internet market share, analysts say.
Cable modems running on upgraded coaxial cable -- designed for the high data rate of video pictures -- are expected to avoid congestion problems and should be available in volume late next year, analysts say.
The problem is fundamental to the nature of phone systems.
"The local network was designed for short calls which you make and then hang up, but Internet calls often occupy a line for hours," said Goodtree. Those lines may not even be carrying much data, but are lost to the system in that time.
PacTel studied some of its telephone switches in detail and found that an average Internet surf was 20.8 minutes long, compared with 3.8 minutes for an average phone call. Ten percent of Internet calls were six hours or longer.
To make matters worse, the peak hour for phone systems has now switched to 10 p.m. because of evening Internet use, throwing out the logistics of networks designed around pre- and post-lunch weekday calling peaks.
PacTel said a study of one Silicon Valley telephone switch showed 16 percent of call attempts failed during peak evening hours because of Internet traffic, and 2.5 percent of lines used by Internet service companies absorbed 20 to 36 percent of the switch's capacity.
Ultimately, analysts say Internet traffic will migrate to packet data networks, the most efficient way of routing it.
Packet networks act like traffic policemen, routing data on the next free highway away from jams, even if it means splitting up a convoy  -- the words of a phone conversation for example -- travelling to the same destination.
Responding to a dispute with the United States, Canada said Tuesday it plans to develop its own satellite-TV industry rather than rely on U.S. companies such as Tele-Communications Inc. to jump-start the business.
The announcement came just hours after the Federal Communications Commission rejected for a second time a bid by TCI and Colorado-based TelQuest Ventures to beam TV programmes to the United States from two satellites in Canadian-authorised orbits.
The Canadian satellites also would have beamed shows to Canadian households via pizza-sized dishes. The satellites were to have been launched by Telesat Canada, a Montreal-based satellite-communications company. It planned to lease space to both TelQuest and TCI, the No. 1 U.S. cable TV operator.
"My belief is that the time has come for us to proceed with a possible Canada-only solution and my hope is that there will be some companies that will be able to pursue that, including Telesat," Canada's minister of industry John Manley told reporters in Ottawa.
Manley plans soon to invite Canadian companies to bid for the ownership and operation of two Canadian satellites.
He told Telesat in a letter Monday he would revoke his ministry's support for the company to have access to the two satellite slots, unless the FCC gave the needed green light.
The FCC, however, rejected the TCI and TelQuest requests by noting that the Canadian government had not yet officially licensed the two satellites. The FCC had issued the same decision earlier in the summer, prompting TelQuest and TCI in August to file emergency requests for FCC approval.
Lawyers and government officials said the basis of the dispute stems from the Clinton administration's objection to allowing a Canadian satellite to beam programmes into the United States -- while U.S. companies cannot enjoy the same rights to broadcast into Canada.
In July, administration officials urged the FCC to defer action on TCI and TelQuest's bid to offer direct broadcast satellite (DBS) services from the Canadian orbital slots.
Officials from the U.S. Trade Representative's office, the Justice Department, the Commerce Department and the State Department said in a letter to FCC Chairman Reed Hundt that the requests "raise foreign, trade or competition policy issues within the jurisdiction of the Executive Branch."
They argued that Canadian curbs discriminate against U.S. programmers by requiring a minimum amount of Canadian content in TV, cable and satellite-TV broadcasts. They asserted  that Canada maintains curbs on the use of non-Canadian satellites to distribute phone and broadcast services to Canada.
In his letter to Telesat, Manley noted that U.S. officials rejected proposals to allow the TCI-TelQuest venture to proceed, while not addressing the issue of Canada's content restrictions on programming.
"The Canadians are going to insist on retaining their protectionist policies on content. And since the U.S. will not accept those policies, the Canadian are picking up their DBS marbles and going home," said Scott Harris, an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher.
Stock-feed producer Ridley Corp Ltd forecast on Wednesday that slow demand and margin pressures would produce a flat first half year profit, but that a grain price slump would help boost profits for the full 1996/97 year.
"All things considered we expect overall company after tax earnings to be in line with those of last year for the first half," Ridley Chairman John Keniry told the group's annual meeting.  
Strong pasture growth in some areas which had significantly cut demand for stockfeed, along with margin pressures from high wheat prices earlier the year had combined to push Australian stockfood earnings lower in the first quarter of the year to June 30, 1997.
First quarter earnings from Ridley's AgriProducts division had been below both budget forecast and last year's results, Keniry said.
Keniry said Ridley expected another good result from its Canadian stock food supplier, Feed-rite, to offset the falls from Australia's AgriProducts in the first half.  
"For the first quarter Feed-Rite's earnings before interest and tax have exceeded by a comfortable margin both budget and last year," Keniry said.
But he said a sharp slump in grain prices, one of Ridley's key inputs, could boost margins again in Australia later in the year if prices stayed down.
"When we look to the full year, we must recognise a very rapid decline in the past month or so in grain prices, and the somewhat unpredicatble impact on both us and our customers of these changes," Keniry said.  
"Nevertheless on a full year basis, a cautious approach would be to say that we presently expect to come in slightly ahead of last year," he said.
Ridley said last month it expected continued profit growth and was optimistic of achieving another record performance in the 1996/97 year to June 30.
It reported an operating profit of A$36.27 million million in 1995/96, up 14.3 percent on the previous year and hard on the heels of three to four years of significant profit rises.  
Later, Ridley managing director Gary Busenshut reiterated the flat immediate outlook but more buoyant longer term prospects for the year.
"As we harvest between October and January, we're going to see some improvement in margins," he said.
Busenshut said Ridley also continued to focus on further acquisitions both in Australia and in North America, particularly now that its A$98 million takeover bid for Australian malster Joe White Maltings Ltd looked unlikely to succeed.  
The A$5.44 per share offer was rejected by Joe White and Ridley has said it would not increase the offer before it closes on November 8. Ridley now has about 18 percent of Joe White.
Ridley would continue to look at potential malting acquisitions in Australia and stock-feed milling operations in North America, Busenshuts said.
He said Ridley had had discussions with potential feed-milling targets in North America and could carry out an acquisition worth about A$100 million by the end of the March quarter of 1997 if it decided to. Ridley's shares closed up one cent at A$1.70.  -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Water filtration company Memtec Ltd is confident the failure of its planned US$280 million takeover bid for U.S. medical filtration company Gelman Sciences Inc will not affect earnings or its U.S. expansion plans.
Memtec chairman Denis Hanley told Reuters in a telephone interview from the United States that a compensation clause in the original takeover deal negotiated with Gelman meant it would not affect Memtec's earnings in the year to June 30, 1997.  
"There were clauses in the contract that compensated us for our effort," Hanley said.
"It will have no impact on our normal earnings," he said.
In July, Gelman said it had agreed to be taken over by the NASDAQ-listed Memtec, which offered 1.05 Memtec American Depositary Receipts (ADRS) for each Gelman share.
The offer than valued each Gelman share at about US$35 a share, but Memtec's share price fell after the July announcement and the agreement included a clause allowing Gelman to renegotiate or terminate the deal if Memtec's share price fell below US$30.  
On Monday, Gelman agreed to a takeover bid by fellow filtration company Pall Corp, which valued Gelman's shares at US$33 per share and effectively trumped Memtec's bid.
Memtec then said on Tuesday it would not increase its bid and that the original merger agreement had been terminated.
Hanley said he and Memtec's management had spent months preparing for the Gelman takeover and organising a roadshow promoting the bid, but that Memtec had been compensated for the costs involved.
He said Memtec's likely growth in the United States this year would not be affected by failure of the deal.  
"This year the growth we'll probably see will still be better than 50 percent without this deal," he said.
Memtec remained on the lookout for expansion opportunities in the United States, particularly in the medical filtration sector.
"We see many ways of getting into the medical market there," he said, adding however that he could not be specific about how Memtec would increase its presence.
Gelman makes microfiltration products for laboratories, healthcare, environmental monitoring, high-technology process industries and other uses.  
The end of the Gelman deal has pleased shareholders however, with Memtec's shares jumping A$3.50 to A$41.50 by Wednesday's close from its A$35 level on Monday.
Memtec had been around A$42.50 in mid-July.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Chemicals and plastics group ICI Australia Ltd posted on Wednesday a steep fall in annual net profit, blaming it in part on sharply lower plastics prices, but said the company was poised for major new expansion in Asia.
Managing director Warren Haynes said the group's net profit after abnormals of A$197 million reflected a difficult year to September 30, but the "pain" of restructuring and efficiency drives over the period would start to pay off in 1996/97.  
"We have in place a sounder base going into (1996-)'97 in terms of lower fixed costs, better volume in terms of upgrades of plants and lower variable costs...," he told reporters here.
Trading profit from the plastic division almost disappeared in 1995/96, plummeting to A$2 million from a record result of A$73 million in 1994/95 and mirroring a similarly sharp drop in world plastics prices from mid-1995, he said.
Plastic prices have fallen on average by US$400 per tonne since their peak of A$1,250 per tonne in June 1995, he said.  
ICI Australia, owned 62.4 percent by British chemicals giant Imperial Chemical Industries Plc, makes about 300 tonnes of plastics each year.
The company's paints, vinyls and chemicals businesses also reported weak results in 195/96, due to sluggish building activity in Australia, but its Incitec Ltd fertiliser subsidiary put in a strong performance in the year.
"That's offset the two very severe effects of the building industry and downturn in plastics prices to some extent," Haynes said.  
ICI Australia is not banking on a rise in plastics prices in 1996/97, but believes it is now in a stronger competitive position due to the recent conversion of its Sydney plastics plant to more efficient ethane feedstock.
The switch to ethane from a mixed feedstock of liquified petroleum gas and naphtha has fundamentally changed "the whole economics for the plastics business for ICI Australia", he said.
The company also shed 500 jobs in 1995/96, or six percent of its workforce, including about 100 jobs lost due to the closure of vinyl production in Sydney, Haynes said.  
"Whilst we have got ourselves in good shape in terms of costs and capacity, I can't predict what the outcome will be (for 1996/97)," he said, adding that world prices and domestic demand would determine the direction of profits.
ICI Australia would continue in 1996/97 to run capital expenditure at about A$350 million, but the portion spent in Asia will at least double to about A$50 million, Haynes said.
The group spent around A$20 million in 1995/96 in Asia, where it invested in polyethylene manufactuere in Malaysia, a resin plant in China and explosives production in Indonesia.  
New investments in the region could be much larger, and investments ranging anywhere from A$20 million to A$100 million would be considered, Haynes said.
"We have started to move into Asia in (1995-)'96 and we have plans to move further into Asia in (1996-)'97," he said.
"We would expect to step that up in '97 and possibly with investments on a larger scale than in '96, but we also see investment opportunities in Australia," he added.
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
A Chinese court took less than four hours on Wednesday to convict prominent dissident and former student leader Wang Dan of plotting to overthrow the government and sentenced him to 11 years in prison.
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court found Wang guilty of conspiring to subvert the Chinese government, the Xinhua news agency said. He faced a maximum penalty of death.
"Sufficient evidence, which includes written materials, witness accounts, recorded tape and criminal technical appraisal, were shown at the court," Xinhua quoted the judge as saying after the trial.
Wang, 27, was also deprived of his political rights for two years, Xinhua said, quoting the verdict.
"Wang candidly confessed his activities," Xinhua said, adding that he received funds from overseas hostile forces, gave financial aid to families of jailed dissidents and tried to set up an "opposition force" by uniting illegal organisations.
Charges against Wang were backed by testimony by another dissident, Liu Xiaobo, Xinhua said. It did not elaborate. Liu was sent this month to a labour camp for three years.
"His criminal fact is clear, and the evidence is conclusive," Xinhua said quoting the verdict against Wang. "He instigated people by saying that 'It is time we turn our words into actions'."
The verdict was issued just four hours after the trial began. Foreign reporters and legal experts were barred from attending the trial in western Beijing.
Security was tight around the court building, with dozens of police preventing the public from approaching the building.
Earlier on Wednesday, the dissident's father said the family would appeal if Wang were convicted.
"We will definitely appeal... We will not give in," Wang Xianzeng told reporters just hours before the start of the proceedings.
"He is definitely innocent," he said as he left his home with the dissident's mother, Wang Lingyun, to go to the court.
"Speech can't overthrow the government," he said.
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, attended the trial as one of two defence lawyers. His father and a sister were allowed to sit in.
Wang Lingyun said on Tuesday she expected Wang to receive a harsh sentence although he would plead not guilty.
The mother had said the dissident was calm and mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, although she has said his health had deteriorated since he vanished into detention in May 1995.
Wang Dan faced a minimum 10-year sentence and a maximum penalty of death.
The New York-based Human Rights Watch said last week the chances of acquittal were slim because Wang has not had adequate time to prepare a defence.
Human Rights Watch attacked the trial on Tuesday as a sign of the Chinese leadership's increasing intolerance of dissent.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He was politically active again after his parole in 1993, defying police surveillance to join a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of those still jailed for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has recently cracked down on the few remaining dissidents who have not fled into exile or been jailed.
China began the trial of prominent dissident and former student leader Wang Dan on Wednesday on the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government, a court official said.
"The trial started at 9.00 a.m. (0100 GMT)," said an official of the Beijing People's Intermediate Court reached by telephone. He declined to give further details.
Security was tight around the court building in western Beijing, with dozens of police preventing the public from approaching the building and manning roadblocks to prevent access.
The father of the former student leader protested his son's innocence just hours before the start of the proceedings and said the family would not give in to the authorities.
"He is definitely innocent," Wang Xianzeng told reporters as he left his home with the dissident's mother, Wang Lingyun, to go to the court. "It just depends on whether the government wants to convict him or not."
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, would attend the trial as one of two defence lawyers. His father and a sister would be allowed to sit in.
"I'm not optimistic about the results," Wang Xianzeng said. "We will definitely appeal... We will not give in.
"Speech can't overthrow the government," he said.
The court indictment against Wang, 27, includes the charge that his writings in foreign publications were evidence of his plot to try to overthrow the government.
He is also accused of accepting foreign funds, of colluding with subversives living overseas and of conspiring with domestic plotters to organise the overthrow of the government.
Wang Lingyun said on Tuesday she expected Wang to receive a harsh sentence although he would plead not guilty.
The former student leader faces a minimum 10-year sentence and a maximum penalty of death.
The mother has said the dissident was calm and mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, although she has said his health had deteriorated since he vanished into detention in May 1995.
She said court officials told her the verdict could be delivered as early as Wednesday or in two days. Family members had been under surveillance for several weeks, she added.
The New York-based Human Rights Watch said last week the chances of acquittal were slim because Wang has not had adequate time to prepare a defence.
Human Rights Watch attacked the trial on Tuesday as a sign of the Chinese leadership's increasing intolerance of dissent.
"The fact is that China's urban dissident movement...has in effect been comprehensively smashed," it said in a statement.
Wang's court appearance was expected to resemble the in-camera proceedings last December against Wei Jingsheng, regarded as the father of China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He was politically active again after his parole in 1993, defying police surveillance to join a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of those still jailed for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has recently cracked down on the few remaining dissidents who have not fled into exile or been jailed.
A Japanese regional bank said on Wednesday that it could lose up to $26 million due to suspected misuse of bank funds by an employee.
Before Biwako Bank Ltd's announcement, rumours had swirled in Tokyo's markets that the bank was having financial problems, jolting stock and bond prices.
The bank allayed these fears somewhat when it said the suspected fund misappropriation, totalling about 3.4 billion yen ($29.8 million), would do only limited damage to its financial health.
However, analysts said the market jitters highlighted lingering nervousness about the health of Japan's financial industry, which is groaning under the weight of huge problem loans.
The bank said it expects to be able to recover about 400 million yen ($3.50 million) of the misappropriated funds and that it would write off the remaining expected losses in the current financial year ending next March.
The bank, based in Ohtsu City, western Japan, has yet to file a complaint against the former employee but plans to do so on completing an internal investigation, a bank official said.
Some analysts said the news about Biwako shocked markets because the bank had been considered financially healthy.
"The feeling of unease spread rapidly because it was talk about (financial) problems at a bank whose name had never been mentioned among the list of troubled banks before," said Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc.
"If the name was one included in the list, the impact would have been minimal," he said.
Fears about Biwako's financial health helped push down the Tokyo stock market's benchmark Nikkei average, which ended the morning session 1.20 percent lower than the previous day close.
The Nikkei ended the day down 276.41 points, or 1.32 percent, at 20,681.67.
The rumours pressured Biwako's share price, which had fallen to 491 yen by the midday close after closing at 549 yen on Monday. It was untraded on Tuesday and the Osaka Securities Exchange (OSE) suspended trading in it on Wednesday afternoon.
The drop in stock prices supported the Japanese government bond (JGB) market and the key December JGB futures contract rose to 125, a record high for any benchmark.
Analysts said the market was particularly nervous about talk about the health of a financial institution after Japanese financing company Nichiei Finance Co Ltd filed for liquidation last week with huge debt liabilities.
Japan's financial industry is still reeling in the aftermath of the late 1980s "bubble economy" of soaring stock and property prices.
When asset prices began to plunge in the early 1990s, many companies which had borrowed aggressively to invest during the bubble economy were unable to return the money and their lenders were left saddled with huge problem loans.
While big Japanese banks are expected to clean up their problem loan woes over the next one year or so, many others are likely to be plagued by the problem for longer period, said Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre.
However, failures of financial institutions would not jeopardise the system now that Japan had established a framework for handling such problems, he said.
The sentencing of Chinese dissident Wang Dan to 11 years in prison in Beijing on Wednesday sparked fears in Hong Kong about curbs on freedoms when the territory reverts to China next year.
Hong Kong activists denounced the verdict, and a human rights group vowed to lobby for a resolution to be passed at the United Nations condemning China's human rights record.
A Beijing court on Wednesday found the 27-year-old former student leader Wang guilty of the capital offence of conspiring to subvert the government.
Wang, who faced a potential maximum penalty of death for the charge, was also stripped of political rights for two years, a typical Chinese punishment for critics of communist rule.
The verdict, at a trial lasting less than four hours, raised an outcry in the British colony, which returns to Chinese rule in 244 days.
"We worry that the Chinese government (would) apply a similar standard in Hong Kong," legislator Bruce Liu of the Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood said.
"Then the freedom of Hong Kong will be limited and (people) will be charged if we openly criticise the Chinese government."
Pro-democracy activists who staged an overnight vigil in front of Beijing's de facto embassy in Hong Kong shouted slogans when they heard the news about Wang on the radio.
Robin Munro, director of the Hong Kong office of Human Rights Watch Asia, said the trial was extraordinarily short for what was deemed the most serious offence in China's criminal law.
"By any legal standards, today's trial of Wang Dan was a farce. Clearly, its sole purpose was to put Wang Dan behind bars for as long as possible with the minimum legal fuss and bother," Munro told Reuters.
"What more evidence does the international community now need before it will wake up to the fact that (Beijing) is not advancing towards a more liberal regime...but is becoming less tolerant of peaceful political opposition and absolutely determined to silence critics by any means possible?" he said.
While Hong Kong has been promised a high degree of autonomy for the next 50 years under a Sino-British handover treaty, many doubt whether the freedoms now enjoyed will be preserved.
Munro said his organisation would lobby the United States and Europe to pass a resolution at the United Nations condemning the human rights situation in China.
Hong Kong activists also planned a demonstration in front of China's mission on Wednesday night, and another on Sunday.
Regulations issued by Indonesia earlier this year promoting the creation of mutual funds have become a landmark for the local industry, delegates to a conference said on Wednesday.
"The recognition of open-end funds or mutual funds by the Capital Market Law has been quite instrumental in the development of the Indonesian investment fund industry over the past few months," said Melli Darsa of the law firm Hadiputranto, Hadinoto and Partners in Jakarta.
Darsa was one of several fund experts attending a mutual fund conference in Jakarta who predicted a bright future for the domestic industry, with seven open-end mutual funds already established and five more in the pipeline.
Indonesia released regulations in May outlining accounting methods, reporting procedures and valuation methods for open-end mutual funds, which were allowed for the first time by the country's 1995 Capital Market Law.
The new legal framework gives Indonesia an edge, placing it half-way between the high risk and reward markets in China and India and the most exciting developed countries, most of which have hostile tax regimes, said Anthony Travers of the Hong Kong law firm Maples and Calder.
"In many respects, Indonesia is a halfway house," Travers told the conference. "Indonesia has a much more developed (financial) infrastructure than China and India."
But delegates saw significant obstacles ahead, including an almost complete ignorance of mutual funds among Indonesians, high-yielding bank deposits that lure domestic savings away from Jakarta's illiquid stock market, and restrictions on foreign investment.
Although Indonesian pension funds hold nearly US$2.4 billion they are prohibited from investing overseas, prompting some foreign fund managers to question the benefits of establishing Indonesian subsidiaries that will be restricted to managing domestic funds onshore.
But government officials made it clear that the purpose of the new rules was to persuade Indonesians to invest at home to spur development of domestic capital markets.
"We want to enhance domestic self-sufficiency. That is why you can only invest in Indonesian securities or new offerings," said Iwan Pontjowinoto, president director of P.T. Danareksa Fund Management, a state-controlled finance company that launched the first of the new open funds.
"We want to have local funds that can help the government by investing in the stock market," he said.
The new funds can only invest in domestic securities and are prohibited from selling more than one percent of their shares or units to any one investor, ensuring a wide investor base.
The new rules also ensure the funds are broadly invested, prohibiting them from spending more than 10 percent of their net asset value on any one company or buying securities representing more than five percent of the issuer's paid-up capital.
The conference, which attracted about 40 delegates from fund management companies, law firms, rating agencies and fund custodians around Asia, ended on Wednesday with a workshop on how to structure and price mutual funds.
The father of Chinese dissident Wang Dan protested his son's innocence on Wednesday, just hours before the start of the former student leader's trial, and said the family would not give in to the authorities.
"He is definitely innocent," Wang Xianzeng told reporters as he left his home to go to the court.
The trial of Wang Dan, 27, on the capital charge of plotting to overthrow the government was due to begin on Wednesday morning at the Beijing People's Intermediate Court.
The public was effectively barred from the court, which was surrounded by police who had set up roadblocks across all major roads leading to the building.
"It just depends on whether the government wants to convict him or not," Wang Xianzeng told reporters.
"I'm not optimistic about the results... We will definitely appeal... We will not give in," he said.
"Speech can't overthrow the government," he said.
The court charges against Wang say that his writings in foreign publications are part of evidence to back up the charge that he had tried to overthrow the government.
His mother, Wang Lingyun, said on Tuesday she expected Wang to receive a harsh sentence although he would plead not guilty to the capital charge.
She said court officials told her the verdict could be delivered as early as Wednesday or in two days. Family members had been under surveillance for several weeks, she added.
The former student leader, who vanished into detention in May 1995, faces a minimum 10-year sentence and a maximum penalty of death.
The New York-based Human Rights Watch said last week the chances of acquittal were slim because Wang has not had adequate time to prepare a defence.
His family found a lawyer willing to defend the dissident after being given just one day in which to do so.
Wang's mother, a 61-year old museum researcher who has no background in law, would attend the trial as one of two defence lawyers. His father and a sister would be allowed to sit in.
The mother has said the dissident was calm and mentally prepared for a harsh sentence, although she has said his health had deteriorated since he was detained in May 1995.
Human Rights Watch attacked the trial on Tuesday as a sign of the Chinese leadership's increasing intolerance of dissent.
"The fact is that China's urban dissident movement...has in effect been comprehensively smashed," it said in a statement.
"At least where political dissidents are concerned, all the judicial signs thus far point...to intensified repression by the country's state security forces," it said, calling for a freeze on trade missions from the United States, Europe, Japan and Australia.
Wang's court appearance was expected to resemble the in-camera proceedings last December against Wei Jingsheng, regarded as the father of China's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
Wang has already served four years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes, or subversion, for his role in pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He was politically active again after his parole in 1993, defying police surveillance to join a daring appeal to communist leaders for the release of those still jailed for their part in the 1989 protests.
China has recently cracked down on the few remaining dissidents who have not fled into exile or been jailed.
Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas refused Thursday to reinstate landmark federal rules aimed at prying open the nation's $100 billion local telephone market to full-fledged competition.
Thomas let stand, without comment, a U.S. appeals court order suspending key parts of the Federal Communications Commission's "interconnection" rules. The FCC, long-distance giants AT&amp;T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp., and other phone companies had asked Thomas to restore the rules, but he rejected the request.
The FCC and the long-distance companies immediately submitted a new request for the high court to lift the lower court's "stay." The matter is expected to be taken up by the entire Supreme Court for consideration. In the meantime, deregulation of the nation's local phone monopolies remains in legal limbo.
The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, based in St. Louis, issued its stay on Oct. 15 while it considers a challenge to the rules, which spell out how long-distance carriers, cable-TV operators and others can link up to the local phone market under the new telecommunications law. Oral arguments are set for January.
GTE Corp., the Baby Bell phone companies, other local carriers and state regulators want to overturn the rules, saying the FCC overstepped its authority and usurped state powers to issue policies on pricing and other matters. Local companies and state regulators had requested the stay.
"We're gratified that the court declined to lift the stay. We are anticipating that the appeals process (against the FCC rules) will go forward and we think that is the right decision," said Bell Atlantic Corp. spokesman Jay Grossman.
The FCC and the long-distance companies had told the high court the stay ran counter to the telecom law and would hurt consumers by delaying the introduction of competition in the local market.
Thomas oversees appeals from the St. Louis-based appeals court.
The FCC rules, adopted in August, are intended to serve as a guide to negotiations between local phone companies and new rivals seeking to enter the local market.
They also are intended to serve as a reference for state arbitrators overseeing stalled negotiations.
The FCC rules, among other things, require the Bells and other local carriers to lease their phone lines to new competitors at steep discounts of up to 25 percent.
With the stay in place, state regulators will hold sway in determining what pricing and other policies will apply to the interconnection agreements between the Bells and GTE and new market entrants. Regulators in several states already have begun to issue preliminary arbitration agreements.
Scott Cleland, an analyst at the Washington Research Group, said the decision to leave the stay in place throws the process of telecommunications deregulation into uncertainty.
"It decentralizes the deregulation process down to the states and injects a lot of potential uncertainty over time," he said.
While General Motors Corp. struggles to overcome labor costs of $43 an hour at its parts plants, the head of one global auto supplier is painting a Darwinian view of the future, in which an increasing number of workers earn less than $10 an hour.
Nearly one-quarter of ITT Automotive Inc.'s workers around the world will be paid a combined hourly wage and benefit rate of less than $10 by 2000, the company's top executive said this week at a conference of suppliers.
That sobering forecast spotlights a long-term problem for GM, which is now in the throes of negotiating a new three-year labor contract with the United Auto Workers union.
"They can't make a buck stamping out taillights and paying people $43 an hour," said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities Inc.
Adds Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi: "Their 43 other competitors aren't going to say 'We'll spot you a couple of years.'"
Timothy Leuliette, president and chief executive officer of ITT Automotive, said the company paid 15 percent of its 35,000 workers around the world less than $10 an hour in 1995. That was up from 10 percent of its employees at that pay level in 1990.
"Do we do that because we're mean?" Leuliette said of the falling wage rates. "No. We did that because we have to promise our customers a 3 to 4 percent price reduction."
Facing union demands for greater job security, GM must find a way for its massive Delphi Automotive Systems parts business to stay competitive in the worldwide auto supplier market.
In the current talks, Delphi has said 12 of its U.S. component facilities are underperforming and should not be subject to the job guarantees the UAW has received from other automakers.
Even if it accepts the economic terms already agreed to by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. , GM and Delphi will pay the average U.S. parts worker a base wage of nearly $19 an hour in the first year of the contract, and more than $21 in 1999, the third year of the agreement.
About 42 percent of Delphi's workers are located in the United States, where the combined hourly wage and benefit cost of a UAW worker under the 1993 national agreement is about $43.
Delphi, with 1995 revenues of $26.4 billion, is in 167 businesses around the world. Global expansion remains a focus for the company, which this year expects 35 percent of its revenues to come from customers outside of GM's North American Operations, Delphi President J.T. Battenberg said Tuesday.
But as Leuliette's comments indicate, the global auto supplier industry is growing increasingly competitive.
The worldwide hourly wage rate for assembling a labor-intensive part such as a wire harness is between $1 and $2, he estimated. More technical parts cost $10-$12 an hour. Leuliette said workers in Vietnam will earn $64 a month working 48 hours a week putting together wiring harnesses for ITT.
"If you are regionally competitive but not globally competitive, you will unlikely be a supplier to ITT," Leuliette told the gathering of suppliers in Detroit.
ITT Automotive, based in Auburn Hills, Mich., is the biggest unit within ITT Industries Inc., and one of the largest independent auto suppliers in the world.
The company, which has annual sales of about $5.5 billion, makes brake and chassis systems, as well as body and electrical components such as motors, actuators and wiper systems. Leuliette estimated the company's average global total wage costs at about $14 an hour.
CIDCO Inc said its sales so far in the second half were similar to those in the first six months of the year -- as the company predicted in July -- though sales of caller ID equipment in California were even worse than expected.
"We were right on in July. If anything it is worse than we had ever thought (in California)," Chief Financial Officer Scott McDonald told Reuters on Thursday.
Still, McDonald, who is also chief operating officer, said he was comfortable with analysts' current 1996 estimates, which were revised down sharply after the July statement.  
"Everything about the second half -- that is still the indication. Yes, we're happy with the guidance...," he said, referring to the company's statement during the summer.
In July, the company said it was unlikely to meet analysts' sales forecasts for the second half and instead expected sales in line with those in the first six months.
It said its lower expectations reflected weakness in California, uneven sales through Ameritech Corp and delays in new products.  
Caller ID services have taken off across the United States in recent years, with additional demand generated when long-distance caller ID received federal approval last year.
However, regulators in California had reservations about caller ID on privacy grounds and only approved Pacific Telesis Group's launch the service in the state in July 1996.
McDonald said the negative publicity about privacy for callers has inhibited sales despite a recent PacTel marketing campaign, and sales are not expected to pick up rapidly.  
"I would think they would be a little better, but not much," he said, referring to California caller ID sales in 1997. "You open up a seventh of the U.S. market, and all of a sudden it turns out to be a dud."
Sales of caller ID by Ameritech continue to be choppy -- as cited in the sales warning -- because of management changes at the company and on-off publicity for its caller ID service. Still, McDonald expects improvements soon.
Ameritech offers local telephone services in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.
Boeing Co. is expected to use the biennial Farnborough Air Show in England next week to formally launch the long-awaited stretch version of its 747 jumbo jet, industry analysts say.
While officials of the aerospace giant remain tight-lipped, analysts say it is all but certain executives will make a major announcement on Monday regarding two new members of the 747 family that will be known as the 747-500 and 747-600.
"They're going to announce the airplanes -- there is no doubt," said Joe Campbell, an analyst at Lehman Bros.
He said the only question was whether Boeing would announce massive orders of $10 billion or more from launch customers or merely disclose that its board of directors had given authorisation to offer the jet.
The announcement of the new models, which would include a jet with 30 percent more capacity than today's largest commercial airliner, is expected to be the highlight of the air show, frequently the stage for major order announcements and other industry news.
Boeing officials have said they are talking with at least six airlines about the potential new versions of the jumbo jet, including British Airways Plc, Singapore Airlines Ltd. and UAL Corp.'s United Airlines.
Boeing President Phil Condit said the company's board of directors discussed the new plane at a regularly scheduled meeting Monday but had not made a decision on whether to launch it.
"That will depend on airline orders," he said in a brief interview Tuesday.
Specifications being circulated within the industry call for the 747-600 to hold 548 passengers in a typical three-class configuration with a range of up to 8,900 miles (14,300 km), compared with 416 passengers and 8,400 miles (13,500 km) for the current-generation 747-400.
The long-range 747-500 would hold 462 passengers in three classes and have a range of up to 10,000 miles (16,000 km).
Analysts say the 747 stretch is essential for Boeing to continue dominating the lucrative top end of the market -- which it has had to itself since the introduction of the four-engine jumbo jet in 1970, which nearly bankrupted the company.
Now Boeing's own new 777 twin-engine jet is replacing older 747s, and possible new versions of jets from rivals Airbus Industrie and McDonnell Douglas Corp. could threaten the lower end of the jumbo market.
"They really do need to be able to move up to again have a position of complete monopoly for the aircraft as they have had for a number of years," said analyst Paul Nisbet of JSA Research.
Meanwhile Airbus has signalled that it intends to go ahead with plans for its own all-new 550-seat plane, dubbed the 3XX, although analysts question whether the market for jumbo jets is big enough for two manufacturers.
"From an economic point of view, I don't think there's enough demand to justify the $10 (billion) to $15 billion cost" of an all-new jet, said Bill Whitlow of Pacific Crest Securities.
He and other analysts said they expect air travel in the fast-growing Pacific region to follow the Atlantic in migrating to pairs of smaller cities rather than routes between world capitals that require the largest jets.
The trend toward such more thinly travelled routes was among the reasons cited by Boeing when it shelved a project to jointly develop with Airbus a double-decker airliner that would hold up to 800 passengers.
But Lehman's Campbell predicted Europe's Airbus, which is transforming itself from a consortium into a single company, would go ahead with its own jumbo jet for commercial delivery in 2003, about three years after Boeing's new 747 models.
"They're not going to leave Boeing alone at the upper end," he said.
Campbell estimated that Boeing's 747 revision, which would include a new wing, new engines and possible new cockpit electronics, would cost from $5 billion to $8 billion to develop.
Rolls-Royce Plc has said it plans to offer a variant of its Trent turbofan engine to power the new Boeing craft, while rivals General Electric Co. and United Technologies Corp.'s Pratt &amp; Whitney unit have formed a joint venture to develop an alternative power plant.
General Motors Corp.  has packed its new EV1 electric vehicle with exotic materials and sophisticated, unproven technology, but is taking a cautious approach to introducing it to the public.
GM officials said Tuesday they plan to offer the two-seat car only on three-year leases and will hold the customer's hand virtually every step of the way.
"Our total focus is to provide a hassle-free experience and comprehensive customer care," said Joseph Kennedy, vice president of sales and marketing for GM's Saturn unit, which will sell the EV1 under the GM nameplate.
The first modern production car designed from the ground up to be an electric vehicle, the EV1 will roll into Saturn dealerships sometime this fall in the Los Angeles, San Diego, Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz., areas. Colder climates would shorten the vehicles' already limited range, which is a maximum of 70 to 90 miles under ideal conditions, GM says.
California, which recently eased its 1998 mandate for electric vehicles, is expected to offer consumer incentives for the vehicle.
Depending on such incentives, monthly lease payments on the car will probably fall between $400 and $500, about the same as a $30,000 luxury car, GM officials said at a news briefing.
Customers will have to add another $50 a month or so to lease a 220-volt charging unit and pay to have it mounted in their garage. But the electricity to run the EV1 is a bargain -- about a penny a mile, versus gasoline costs of four to five cents a mile for an average normal car.
GM executives will not discuss production plans or sales targets for the vehicle and say they plan to let market dictate demand. But Kennedy said he expects the initial demand to outstrip supply due to the vehicle's novelty.
So far, about 1,000 people have called a toll-free telephone number, and dealers have taken names of 300 serious customers, including Tonight Show host Jay Leno, he said.
Customers who want performance won't be disappointed with the EV1. The whisper-quiet vehicle offers neck-snapping acceleration and sports-car like handling, although a heavy foot will quickly drain the battery, requiring a three- to four-hour recharge.
"We can keep up with a Nissan 300ZX from zero to 30" miles an hour, said Sean McNamara, marketing manager for GM's Advanced Technology Vehicles group.
The car's aerodynamic tear-drop shape, considerably narrower in the rear than in the front, slips through the wind easily and looks unlike anything else on the road.
GM could have built a spartan small boxy car but wanted its first electric vehicle to have some flair, said Robert Purcell, general manager of GM Advanced Technology Vehicles.
"This is the car that gets the market started," he said. "We wanted to put out a car that was very exciting so that people would fall in love with it."
The sporty configuration was aimed at highly educated customers with incomes of $125,000 a year who like high technology, GM said. The customers also likely own two other vehicles for longer trips or heavy hauling.
Saturn, which won't necessarily sell all future GM electric vehicles, plans to emphasise its customer-friendly sales practices more heavily for the EV1.
The decision to lease the vehicle was made in part to protect consumers from the inevitable march of technology. The automaker does not want EV1 customers to be stuck with obsolete cars in a few years, as personal computer owners often are.
At the end of the lease, GM is considering refitting the plastic and aluminum-bodied cars with newer technology and leasing them again, Purcell said.
The division also is training about 14 EV1 "product specialists" to handle sales of the vehicle at 26 designated dealerships in California and Arizona.
The specialists will come to a prospective customer's home, office, or elsewhere to explain the details of the car and the charging unit.
They'll work with the utility companies and arrange municipal permits for the installations, Kennedy said, adding that it will probably take about a week to set up a customer with a car and charger.
GM has invested $350 million in developing the EV1, which it does not expect to recoup through sales of the first generation vehicle, Purcell said. But the car does pioneer a wide range of exotic materials and new technology that could find its way to other GM vehicles.
Magnesium and other lightweight materials counteract the weight of batteries, and the cars have braking systems that transfer power back to the battery.
Despite the technology, the cars are largely hand-built at a Lansing, Mich., plant that produced the now-defunct Buick Reatta in the late 1980s. The operation employs 54 production workers but could be expanded quickly, GM officials said.
Toronto stocks ended mixed on Tuesday, with a focus on falling pipeline and gold issues after the market gained nearly 300 points thus far in August.
"This is a momentum that cannot be maintained, so this market is giving back some of its gains," said P and C Holdings President Ron Meisels. "I think it'll take a few more days before it sells off enough" for investors to return and hunt for bargains.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index lost 12.8 points to close at 5173.9 points for its second straight losing session. However, advancing issues edged out declining ones 444 to 438.
Another 310 stocks ended unchanged.
More than 88 million shares were traded worth C$1.42 billion (US$1.04 billion.)
Since July 30 the key 300 index has climbed from 4891 points to today's close of 5173, a gain of 282 points.
Market players have been hurt by vacations ahead of a long holiday weekend, Meisels said. Canadian markets will be closed on Monday, September 2, for Labor Day.
All of Toronto's 14 sub-indices fell except for conglomerates and retail issues. Pipelines, golds, transports and forestry products dropped the most.
Among the hot stocks, banks were briskly traded. National Bank of Canada rose C0.10 to C$11.90 in turnover of 2.5 million shares.
Today Canada's third and fourth largest banks, the Bank of Montreal and the Bank of Nova Scotia, kicked off the reporting period for financial institutions by posting better-than-anticipated third quarter profits, said Richardson Greenshields of Canada analyst Dunnery Best.
Rogers Communications Inc. was also active. The nation's largest cable-television firm saw shares slip C0.05 to C$9.20 on 2.4 million shares, continuing Monday's fall. Chief financial officer Graham Savage resigned yesterday, the second senior executive to jump ship this year.
Barrick Gold Corp. closed its deal with small gold prospector Arequipa Resources Ltd. today, paying C$30 a share in cash and Barrick shares after sweetening its original offer of C$27. Barrick stock slipped C$0.15 to C$37.55 on nearly 1.6 million shares.
Czech President Vaclav Havel on Thursday said he was deeply disturbed by a Chinese court's 11-year prison sentence on dissident Wang Dan who was accused of plotting to overthrow the government.
Havel, himself a former dissident against a Communist government, said in a statement that after the 14-year sentence last December against Wei Jingsheng, a leader of China's small democracy movement, Wang's sentence was "unacceptable".
Wang, 27, was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Wednesday after a brief hearing. Wei was sentenced to 14 years in jail last December on a similar charge.
Havel said in the statement issued by his spokesman, that Wang's sentence "was another example of the unacceptable understanding of the position of the citizen in society."
The statement added that Havel expressed his "deep dissatisfaction" over the decision.
It said Havel "considers it his obligation to express his solidarity with those who anywhere around the world express, in a non-violent way, their free-mindedness and desire for justice and elementary human rights."
Havel, once a dissident playwright imprisoned several times by a Communist government before its fall in 1989, has been a frequent diplomatic thorn in China's side.
The Czech president said earlier this year he regretted that Taiwan, which Bejing regards as a renegade province, is not a U.N. member. However, the Czechs officially still recognise only China as a sovereign state and not Taiwan.
Havel angered China last year with a highly publicised meeting with Taiwan's Premier Lien Chan, forcing a hurried re-statement of the Czechs' official "One-China Policy".
Earlier on Thusday, the Czech foreign ministry asked China's chief diplomat in Prague, charge' d'affaires Wang Zizhen, to the ministry where a statement of protest was read.
"The Czech Republic expresses its dissatisfaction over the conduct of the trial and the judgment carried out," said a text of the statement issued by the foreign ministry.
It said that although there were differences in traditions of understanding questions of human rights in different regions, "there exist certain universal principles of maintaining human rights which are necessary to respect".
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said in Beijing that the jailing was not a human rights issue but an ordinary legal matter.
The Czech ministry statement said criminalisation of freedom of speech was "a violation of elementary human rights".
The Czech cabinet should decide soon on the further privatisation of the largest savings bank, Ceska Sporitelna a.s. to clarify the situation for potential investors, a bank official said on Thursday.
Sporitelna's deputy general director Jaroslav Svoboda said however there was not a need to hurry with the privatisation, and that he believed that the state should keep a 10 to 15 percent stake in the bank after sale is concluded.
"The important thing is to decide on the privatisation in order to calm down the situation, also for foreign investors (so they know) how to proceed on the Czech market," Svoboda told reporters.
"I think it is not necessary to hurry abnormally with the privatisation (after the decision)," he added.
Sporitelna's further privatisation has become a hot topic in Czech banking circles especially after the central bank's recent suggestion to merge the bank with Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka (CSOB), one of the country's four largest banks.
The state currently holds 45 percent stake in the bank through its privatisation agency, the National Property Fund (NPF). Svoboda said 30 to 35 percent should be sold to one, or possibly two, "long-term and transparent" investors.
"If it was a domestic investor, there is the question where it would get money for it. A foreign investor could use capital not obtained on the domestic market," Svoboda said.
Asked about the Czech National Bank's (CNB) proposal to merge Sporitelna with CSOB, Svoboda said that he had not seen the plans, and he had little reaction to what had been reported in the media.
He said however that Sporitelna has developed its specific position on the Czech market over many years and that should be preserved.
The CNB plan submitted to the cabinet calls for a merger of the two institutions which would create the largest banking institution in the Eastern Europe with combined assets of roughly 540 billion crowns.
The CNB however proposed holding off on privatisation of the new combined Sporitelna and CSOB for three to five years until the effects of the merger were analysed.
The plan also calls for fast selloff of the state 31.5 percent stake in another bank, IPB a.s. , to a foreign partner, and for a delay in the privatisation of the state roughly 49 percent share in Komercni Banka a.s. .
It is not clear when the cabinet will debate the CNB proposals, but a senior central bank official said it might be on the agenda of next Wednesday's government meeting.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech telephone operator SPT Telecom a.s. on Thursday said its nine-month gross profit hit 6.0 billion crowns, in line with analysts predictions and likely to have little effect on the firm's share price.
SPT said in a statement that revenues for the first three quarters totalled 23.3 billion crowns, nearly equal to the 26.4 billion crowns in total revenues for 1995.
SPT's 1995 full year gross profit was 7.0 billion crowns. All figures are calculated according to International Accounting Standards (IAS).
SPT shares closed down six crowns at 2,879 on the Prague Stock Exchange on Thursday, though dealers said the results came out after trading ended for the day.
"The figures were basically in line with our estimates. Margins are pretty much the same as they were in the first half so I think the company is in a good position for future growth," said Alex Marcek an analyst at Patria Finance.
The statement added the number of lines installed accelerated in the third quarter, putting the year-to-date figure at 272,000 lines and the overall installed base at 2.67 million lines.
"The company is confident that it will achieve its 1996 target of over 400,000 new set lines," the statement said.
SPT, of which a Dutch-Swiss consortium comprised of PTT Netherlands and Swiss Telecom bought a 27 percent stake last summer, is aiming to increase the network by another 500,000 lines in 1997, and 650,000 in 1998.
The statement said that investment expenditures for the first nine months totalled more than 20 billion crowns, "more than the full year 1995 capital expenditure.
"If they hit the target of 400,000 new lines it would be a pretty good base as far as revenues are concerned," said one local telecom analyst.
Analysts said that the figures would probably not have an immediate effect on SPT's share price, since the entire Czech capital market is in a downturn as investors avoid a market they characterise as plagued with a lack of transparency.
Company officials have been adamant that SPT would not pay a dividend before 1998, as profits would still have to be ploughed back into the network's modernisation.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Italy, seeking a larger role in helping to fold former East Bloc countries into NATO, believes it is better to integrate, and not isolate, fringe candidates like Slovakia and Romania, a senior Italian diplomat said.
During an official visit to Prague, Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs Piero Fassino said in an interview that Italy, as part of its new focus he called "Italian Ostpolitik", saw four countries as primary candidates for NATO's expansion.
"The position of Italy...is that the group of countries which definitely belong to NATO is Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovenia," he said, but added "There's also a possiblity that Slovakia and Romania belong to that group."
He said it was important for Slovakia and Romania to execute agreements with Hungary aimed mainly at protecting the rights of ethnic Hungarians living in both countries.
Fassio said that before the West says "no" to Slovakia and Romania it was necessary to carefully determine whether they meet NATO's standards of democracy, but he added:
"If a country is integrated then we also have the right to require it to meet standards of the organisation it has joined."
"If it's isolated we can't demand anything," he said in the interveiw conducted late on Wednesday.
He gave an example of Turkey with which the EU has blocked establishing a free trade area because of concerns over Ankara's treatment of the country's Kurdish minority -- a move which, he said, has shown no results in solving the problem .
Both the EU and the United States have repeatedly lambasted Slovakia's government for slow democratic reforms and adopting laws threating to political opponents and ethnic minorities saying they might delay membership into "western structures".
Two such warnings came last week on the same day U.S. President Bill Clinton, without naming countries, set 1999 as his target for integrating the first wave of former Soviet bloc countries into NATO.
Fassio said it would be more useful to put fringe countries like Slovakia into the fold where more pressure can be applied.
"It is true that Slovakia is having problems fulfilling democratic principles, but the question is, 'do we isolate Slovakia or integrate Slovakia?'. I believe it is more useful to integrate it," he said.
He also stressed Slovakia's geographical position between the Czech Republic and the frontier of the former Soviet Union.
"I believe it is necessary to consider very carefully the position of Slovakia because Slovakia is in a geographically strategic place," he said.
Fassio said central and eastern Europe was now a priority of our Italy's foreign policy.
"Central Europe is a place which is key to the security of Europe, in this Italy has a direct interest in its political dynamics," he said. "And we have an interest to intenify our presence to support Italian economic considerations."
He said while Italy would "intensively" pursue stronger ties to the group of countries most likely to join NATO and the European Union, it would also instensively seek to strengthen relations with other post Communist countries.
He said this was especially true for Italy's Balkan neighbours, such as Bulgaria, Croatia and Albania.
Scotland-based hotels and casinos group Stakis on Thursday said it will buy Lonrho Plc's five Metropole hotels, funding the 327 million pound ($530 million) deal with a huge cash call on shareholders.
Stakis, which operates 46 British hotels and 22 casinos -- and whose current market value is only about 472 million pounds -- said it wanted to raise 222 million pounds via a heavyweight four-for-seven rights issue, set at 82 pence per share.
"We've found a reasonable and sensible price for a very good, perhaps unique, product," Stakis chief executive David Michels told a news conference.
Lonrho, which is in the throes of a demerger, said in a separate statement that the disposal would generate net proceeds of 316 million pounds as well as payments of 63 million pounds in dividends and tax relief that it will receive from the chain.
"The proposed sale of Metropole Hotels represents an important step in the separation of Lonrho's mining and non-mining assets...," said Lonrho chairman John Leahy, adding that the firm was continuing to make progress with its demerger.
Last month, Lonrho shelved plans for a 700 million pound flotation of its Metropole and its North American-based Princess luxury resort hotels because of the level of interest it had received from potential buyers.
Saudi billionaire Prince al-Waleed bin Talal has been tipped as the most likely buyer of the 10 five-star Princess hotels. Lonrho expects to announce the sale in about three weeks.
The sale of the hotels, which will be followed by the divestment of the group's African trading operations, is part of Lonrho's plans to turn itself into a focused mining company and ends 30 years of empire building by founder Tiny Rowland.
Stakis had been the front-runner to buy the conglomerate's Metropole chain -- four-star hotels with extensive conference facilities -- since rival Millennium &amp; Copthorne Hotels pulled out of the bidding race earlier this month.
The hotels group said it expected the acquisition to boost earnings from the first year and forecast 1996 group profit before tax and exceptionals would be over 30.6 million pounds.
Stakis also forecast a final dividend of 1.2 pence per share, giving a total payout of 2.15 pence for the full year -- 23 percent more than last year.
The company, which had been in acquisition talks with Lonrho for about 15 months, plans to cut costs at the hotels and boost profits by boosting occupancy -- currently at about 68 percent.
Analysts welcomed the deal. "The numbers stack up. I have no problem with their strategy," said Matthew Nayler, leisure analyst at brokers Williams de Broe.
Analysts estimate that Stakis will have to boost profits at the hotels -- in the cities of London and Birmingham and the seaside resorts of Brighton and Blackpool -- by at least 12 percent for the purchase to be profitable.
In an innovative move by investment bank Schroders that will save Stakis some money on commissions, the bank is arranging a partial tender for sub-underwriting of the rights issue by investment institutions in which sub-underwriters will be allowed to tender at lower commissions for additional sub- underwriting above their initial allocations.
Schroders will then cut the primary underwriting commission charged to Stakis at the same rate as any reduction in total sub-underwriting charges.
"We may lose money but we think change (to commission rates) is inevitable," Schroders' Robert Swannell told reporters.
The market is now awaiting news on Lonrho's sale of the Princess hotels, which include resorts in Acapulco, Mexico, the Caribbean and the U.S.
A Lonrho spokesman said news on this was expected in approximately three weeks.
Financial sources in the Gulf said earlier this month that the Saudi prince had exclusive rights to negotiate a deal and that the price was $300 million. The prince's key western investments include stakes in New York's luxury Plaza hotel, the Four Seasons hotel group, banking group Citicorp and the Disneyland Paris theme park.
($1=.6165 Pound)
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Index reached its 50th record close of 1996 on Thursday and broke the 5600 barrier for the first time.
The TSE 300 Composite Index rose 8.01 points to close at 5598.82, surpassing a streak of 45 record finishes in 1987.
The Index also breached the 5600 barrier, setting an intraday high of 5601.88.
"It's just another record in a string of more to come. This won't be the last," said Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president and director of equity trading for ScotiaMcLeod Inc, a unit of Bank of Nova Scotia.
Toronto's record-setting run was led by banking, communications, conglomerates and technology issues. Of the TSE's 14 sub-groups, 10 finished higher.
The rally was restrained by 162-point loss in golds.
Trading was brisk with 113.8 million shares exchanging hands for a value of C$1.6 billion ($1.2 billion).
Advancing stocks outnumbered declines 538 to 434 with 294 issues unchanged.
Traditionally, October has been a scary month for investors who remember the massive crash of 1987.
"This is the time when everything is supposed to fall apart, but it has been a rather strong month," Ketchen said.
* Bank of Nova Scotia and Royal Bank of Canada set all-time highs as the bank group continued their climb since summer. Scotiabank closed up 0.45 at 42.25 after reaching a 52-week high of 42.40. Royal Bank added 0.60 to close at 44.30 after hitting a 52-week peak of 44.40.
* Among weak gold issues, Barrick Gold Corp fell 0.50 to 35.10 on 1.5 million shares. COMEX gold futures slumped for a second straight session on Thursday.
* Molson Cos Ltd jumped 0.40 to 20.50 after its brewing unit, Molson Breweries, reached an interim deal with U.S. beermaker Adolph Coors Co on the sale of Coors beer in Canada.
An arbitration panel two weeks ago ruled that Molson Breweries breached its licensing deal by allowing Miller Brewing Co., a unit of Philip Morris Cos Inc, to buy a 20 percent stake without Coors' consent in 1993.
The Inter-African Coffee Organization (IACO) will focus on low world prices at its 1996/97 coffee season annual meeting in Abidjan on November 17-19, IACO's chief economist said on Friday.
"In spite of a world export programme the indicative robusta price is only at 73 cents per pound. This is too low," chief economist Donald Kaberuka told Reuters on Friday.
"We do not aim to set a target price but today's composite price for robusta and arabica, 99.29 cents, is also low," he said. "Any recommendations will be sent to the Association of Coffee Producing Countries (ACPC)."
Last May the ACPC, which represents 80 percent of world production, agreed to limit green coffee exports from its 14 members to 53.5 million 60-kg bags in the year to June 1997 after 48.9 million in 95/96.
Africa's total 1996/97 export allocation under the ACPC plan is 12,840,000 bags, or 24 percent of total ACPC target.
The 25-member group of African IACO exporters were very concerned by persistent low prices on the world markets despite a producer plan to limit exports, Kaberuka said in an interview.
"The market could be in balance this year as there is only a small production surplus. We are perplexed by the low prices and want the plan to have an impact," he added.
Kaberuka, who is in charge of ACPC target management for IACO, said IACO provisions allowed a review of the export plan after six months, meaning December.
IACO's 25 members would study the situation and then decide if action was needed. Full agenda details are not yet available.
IACO last met in Gabon in November 1995 to review volatile world markets, coffee rehabilitation plans and financing deals for exporters.
This time last year the world export plan aimed to stabilise market prices at 135 cents/lb for robusta and 165 cents for arabica. Prices then were 114 and 128 cents respectively.
The current export targets were set at the May ACPC review of the export plan, now in its second year (July 96-June 97). In 1995/96 the ACPC set total world exports at 60.4 million bags, including non-ACPC producers. --Abidjan Newsroom + 225 21 21 90
The London Stock Exchange launched its new integrated trading and information computer system, Sequence 6, on Tuesday, the last stage in a three-year programme to take the London stock market into the next century.
The new system completes the introduction of electronic trading begun at the time of the Big Bang' shake up of the London market in 1986.
It also paves the way for the shift to electronic trading in Britain's largest shares on the transition from quote-driven trading for FTSE 100 stocks next summer.
"We are delighted that Sequence 6 has been implemented successfully, on time and under budget. The launch has gone very well today and the users appear to be very happy," said a spokeswoman for the Exchange.
However some market-makers in London said they experienced problems in posting prices on Tuesday, citing difficulties with the Reuters system.
A Reuters spokesman said the company's link to Sequence 6 was operating as planned but that there was an unrelated temporary operational problem with feeds from several European exchanges including London which affected prices in the morning.
The completion of the Sequence programme at a cost of 81 million pounds marks the culmination of an modernisation process by the Exchange and Andersen Consulting which will provide the flexibility to adapt to the future needs of the market place.
It will help ensure that London retains its competitive edge, and reduce ongoing costs for both the Exchange and its participants, the Exchange said.
Sequence 6 will provide the basis for new electronic trading in FTSE 100 shares once the structure of a new order-driven regime is agreed and implemented in 1997.
That will signal the end of the current, quote-driven system where prices are set exclusively by dealers authorised to act as "market-makers" and deals struck over the telephone.
It will also enable electronic as well as telephone-based trading in the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and the Seats -- Stock Exchange Alternative Trading Service -- market for less liquid stocks.
During extensive market testing over five weekends this summer, the new trading platform succesfully coped with up to five times the average levels of daily activity in the London market, the Exchange said.
The Exchange entered into the outsourcing agreement with Andersen in April 1992 and today's launch marks the final phase of a four-stage delivery process.
The successful completion of the project, on time and nearly five million pounds ahead of budget, will come as a relief to the Exchange after its ill-fated and costly attempt at building a paperless share settlement system - TAURUS - was abandoned four years ago.
The collapse of the project resulted in the resignation of then chief executive Peter Rawlins and subsequent involvement of the Bank of England in supervising the development of Crest, a replacement for the Exchange's antiquated Talisman system.
It may also mark a turnaround in its fortunes after a year which began with the sacking of its chief executive, Michael Lawrence, amid disagreement over how to counter competition from overseas bourses.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8712
Czech President Vaclav Havel said on Thursday he was deeply disturbed by a Chinese court's 11-year prison sentence on dissident Wang Dan on charges of plotting to overthrow the government.
Havel, himself a former dissident against a Communist government, said in a statement that after last year's jailing of Wei Jingsheng, father of China's small democracy movement, on similar subversion charges, Wang's sentence was "unacceptable".
Wang, 27, was jailed for 11 years on Wednesday after a brief hearing.
Wei Jingsheng, freed in 1993 after serving all but six months of an earlier 15-year term for subversion, was rearrested the following year and formally sentenced in December 1996 to another 14-year term. He is now 47.
Havel's statement, issued by his spokesman, said that Wang's sentence "was another example of the unacceptable understanding of the position of the citizen in society."
The statement added that Havel expressed his "deep dissatisfaction" over the decision.
It said Havel "considers it his obligation to express his solidarity with those who anywhere around the world express, in a non-violent way, their free-mindedness and desire for justice and elementary human rights."
Havel, who as a dissident playwright was imprisoned several times by the Communist government before its fall in 1989, has been a frequent diplomatic thorn in China's side.
He angered China last year with a highly publicised meeting with Taiwan's Premier Lien Chan, forcing a hurried restatement of the Czechs' official "One-China Policy".
Earlier this year the Czech president said that he regretted that Chinese Nationalist-ruled Taiwan, which Bejing regards as a renegade province, is not a U.N. member. However, the Czechs officially still recognise only China as a sovereign state.
Earlier on Thursday, the Czech Foreign Ministry called in China's chief diplomat in Prague, charge d'affaires Wang Zizhen, to read him a statement of protest.
"The Czech Republic expresses its dissatisfaction over the conduct of the trial and the judgment carried out," said a text of the statement issued by the Foreign Ministry.
It said that, although there were differences in traditions of understanding questions of human rights in different regions, "there exist certain universal principles of maintaining human rights which are necessary to respect".
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said in Beijing on Thursday that the jailing was not a human rights issue but an ordinary legal matter.
The Czech ministry statement said, however, that criminalisation of freedom of speech was "a violation of elementary human rights".
Russian parliamentarians, in a stinging blow to foreign oil investors, on Thursday said they would ask lawmakers to reject a bill outlining oil reserves open to production-sharing agreements.
The bill, a list of about 250 oil fields holding 38 percent of proven Russian oil reserves, is a key step towards unlocking billions of dollars in planned and proposed investments in Russian oil, including a huge project by Amoco Corp.
But members of the audit chamber of parliament told a news conference they would ask Duma (lower chamber) deputies to reject the law early next month.
The call for rejection, likely to be accepted, is a slap in the face for Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, whom foreign oil investors have considered their guardian angel in Russia and who has been instrumental in getting energy deals off the ground.
It is also the latest sign that Moscow, in a quiet change of policy, is getting tough with potential Western oil investors and seeking ways to give its own oil companies, which hold licences to most of the fields, a chance to get on their feet and compete with Western majors.
"It's quite a major setback," said a senior European energy consultant who asked not to be named. "There's a real feeling in Russia of "why should we give up any of this -- it's ours'."
Duma Deputy Yuri Boldyrev, who is deputy chairman of the audit chamber, said the chamber had rejected the reserves list because government officials had not presented financial analyses proving that the fields would earn Russia more money faster if developed on a production-sharing basis.
Production-sharing contracts bring Western oil firms into risky countries by allowing them to finance and develop oil production through the sale of some output on world markets to cover costs and generate returns. The rest of the oil goes to the host country, which also get royalties and profit taxes.
Under the scheme, ordinary tax regimes are not applicable, giving the investments an acceptable return.
Boldyrev said foreign investors would not be worried by the chamber's rejection and said Moscow should slash the number of reserves open to output-sharing to 10 or 15 a year.
But senior oil executives are likely to be annoyed.
"We are of course worried about anything that slows the process down," said Dan Westbrook, senior vice-president and resident manager of Amoco Eurasia Petroleum Company in Moscow.
While officials recommended that the field Amoco is eyeing, Priobsk, be included eventually in the production-sharing list, they said two prize, giant fields -- Samotlor and Krasnoleninskoye -- would not be tendered to foreign investors.
Amoco and Russian oil firm YUKOS have a preliminary $50 billion production-sharing deal to tap Priobsk, one of Russia's largest oil fields, in western Siberia's Tyumen region.
But negotiations have slowed, partly because parliament has not yet approved the reserves list.
More bureaucratic delays appear to be on the horizon, blocking some $50-$70 billion in planned foreign investments in Russian oil and retarding potential projects.
"We need a host of laws clarifying on what grounds a specific field should be included in the list," said parliamentary auditor Mikhail Beskhmelnitsyn.
Boldyrev, complaining that Russia's black gold goes into a black hole when oil firms underpay taxes to state coffers, said the chamber also rejected the reserves list because output-sharing contracts might award too many tax breaks to companies.
Russia, the world's third largest producer of crude oil, last year passed a production-sharing law but only after revising it to meet demands by domestic lobbyists worried about the country's resources being exploited too cheaply by foreigners.
A planned merger between British brewer Bass and Carlsberg-Tetley will create such a dominant force in the industry that it is almost certain to fall foul of Britain's competition authorities, regional brewers said on Tuesday.
"I think it will be referred but what will happen then is anybody's guess. They must think there is a reasonable risk of that happening otherwise why have a plan B in place," said Ralph Findlay, finance director of Wolverhampton &amp; Dudley Breweries.
On Sunday Bass confirmed details of a long-awaited deal to merge with Carlsberg-Tetley, leaving Danish brewer Carlsberg with a 20 percent stake in a merged Carlsberg-Tetley-Bass if British regulators allow the marriage to take place.
Under the terms of the deal, if Bass cannot combine C-T with its own brewing business within 16 months, Bass has the option to put its whole shareholding to Carlsberg and Carlsberg has an option to put 15 percent of C-T to Allied Domecq.
"If it doesn't work it seems plan B comes into operation. But it is by no means clear what will invoke plan B," Findlay said.
Bass was knocked off its perch as Britain's leading brewer last year when Scottish &amp; Newcastle (S&amp;N) acquired Courage from Australian brewer Fosters, giving it a 31 percent share of Britain's beer market.
A merger of Bass and Carlsberg-Tetley would make Bass Britain's largest brewer by far with 35 percent of the market.
Britain's competition authorities will want to find out if the deal would leave Bass and S&amp;N too much control over beer prices and too powerful a grip in the Midlands and Yorkshire.
Roger Young, retail director at Greenalls Group, said: "In common with the rest of the world we are expecting a referral. Anything that takes competition out on the supply side is not good news from the point of view of the purchaser."
Greenalls, owners of some 2,400 pubs, exited brewing at the end of February 1991. "If it becomes too much for Bass to swallow then I suppose plan B swings in -- Carlsberg effectively takes over," he told Reuters.
Many brewing analysts argue that the duopoly that exists in Scotland between Bass and S&amp;N results in much higher margins for the brewers which means higher prices for drinkers.
"I think the supply position in the Midlands and Yorkshire is obviously something that needs to be looked at very carefully," said one senior source at regional brewer.
"Because Bass and Allied have dominated the beer supply in those areas since the Second World War."
"In those areas they are the two biggest brewers and the two biggest brewers getting together in very significant regions like that is something which has never happened before."
A spokesman for the Office of Fair Trading confirmed it would look at the deal but declined to comment on whether the OFT would recommend referring it to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission for a full investigation.
Industry sources say although S&amp;N's purchase of Courage was referred the OFT gave the company much clearer guidance on what concessions would be required to let it through.
S&amp;N was obliged to reduce its tied estate of pubs by 115 to 2,624. It also agreed to the early release of IEL (Intrepreneur Estates Ltd) pub tenants from a supply agreement. It had to release 500 of them by January 1996 and a further 500 by January 1997.
Czech telephone operator SPT Telecom a.s. on Thursday reported a nine-month gross profit of 6.0 billion crowns, in line with forecasts, and said outlays for investment rose significantly in the period.
"The figures were basically in line with our estimates. Margins are pretty much the same as they were in the first half so I think the company is in a good position for future growth," said Alex Marcek an analyst at Patria Finance.
The company's gross profit for all of 1995 was 7.0 billion crowns. SPT used International Accounting Standards in calculating its profit.
In a statement, the company said revenues  totalled 23.3 billion crowns, nearly equal to the 26.4 billion crowns for 1995.
SPT said outlays for investment in the nine-month period exceeded 20 billion crowns or more than the total for 1995.
A Dutch-Swiss consortium of PTT Netherlands and Swiss Telecom, which bought a 27 percent stake in SPT from the government last summer, has effective day-to-day control of the firm. The consortium paid $1.32 billion for its stake.
SPT said it installed more telephone lines in the Czech Republic in the third quarter, bringing the year-to-date figure to 272,000 lines. SPT now has a total of 2.67 million lines.
"The company is confident that it will achieve its 1996 target of over 400,000 new set lines," the statement said. The company is aiming to increase its network by another 500,000 lines in 1997, and 650,000 in 1998.
SPT is the only telephone line operator in the country. There are also two GSM mobile phone operators, but they do not install hard lines.
"If they hit the target of 400,000 new lines it would be a pretty good base as far as revenues are concerned," said one local telecom analyst.
SPT shares closed down six crowns at 2,879 in after-bourse trading in Prague.
The company didn't comment on its dividend policy. SPT has said in the past that it doesn't plan to pay a dividend before 1998.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Millennium Chemicals, to be spun off from the mighty Hanson conglomerate in an October flotation, has already had to rebuff would-be suitors, chief executive of the soon-to-be independent company said on Tuesday.
William Landuyt, who is also chairman of Millennium, also unveiled his strategic blueprint in an interview with Reuters, including plans for a share buyback by 2000 after cutting debt and implementing post-demerger investment plans.
Millennium had 1995 sales of two billion pounds ($3.12 billion) and profits of 588 million pounds.
"We are not a dividend yield stock. We are a growth company," Landuyt said, warning investors of a tight dividend policy.
The demerger of Hanson Plc will create four companies - Millennium, Imperial Tobacco, Energy Group and the rump building firm which will retain the famous Hanson name.
As investors await details of the float of the first two divisions - Millennium and Imperial - Landuyt said there had been takeover interest in all four companies including his own empire.
"We've had interest for every business in Hanson." He said "expressions of interest" included those for whole divisions as well as individual companies within each of the four divisions to be floated off.
Millennium itself received approaches for all three of its units - Quantum, SCM and Glidco. All approaches were rebuffed.
Hanson's chemicals arm had been widely tipped as a takeover candidate by analysts in recent months, but Hanson's group share price recently took a hit after it was revealed that Millennium had built in a "poison pill" to deter predators.
The move led to a downgrading in the Hanson break-up value by analysts including BZW which pared back to 193 from 207 pence per share. The market valuation range spreads from 150 pence to 200 pence per share. Hanson's shares stand at 162 1/4, up 2 3/4 pence.
One analyst said of the poison pill episode "It was quite disgusting. Here is a predatory company which has spoken out against such tactics and has installed a poison pill itself."
But Landuyt said it was vital to prevent a predator buying up shares on the cheap and launching an undervalued bid.
"We do expect selling pressure (for Millennium shares) for at least the first six months. We don't want a temporary drop in the share price to allow someone to get a commanding position and launch a bid which does not offer full value."
Under law in the U.S. state of Delaware, a company gaining a 15 percent stake in Millennium would see those shares become worthless. They would carry no vote or liquidation value unless the board had been approached first.
But the poison pill clause ends after one year, said the chemicals company chief, freeing the way for a possible bid.
Another factor which has damped Millennium's core valuation has been poor trading which has dogged the chemicals market leading to plant closures and asset writedowns of $60 million at SCM. Landuyt said that a further $15 million charge still had to be levied.
He said the impact on trading profits would be neutral and also said signs of an uptick remain.
He expected SCM to be able to make its October price increases stick after heavy destocking by customers.
Quantum's recently reported improvement in pricing and demand also continues, he said.
($1=.6415 Pound)
Ecological warfare has broken out across the British construction industry, striking some of the biggest corporates as activists give up peaceful protests and seek to hit builders where it hurts -- their profit margins.
Described by one British company as "eco-terrorism", it is seen as the new business risk of the 1990s.
Famous names like Tarmac Plc, Costain Group Plc and ARC, a unit of conglomerate Hanson Plc, have all been targeted.
Activist groups are no longer seen by British firms as a harmless, badly organised ragbag of students and hippies.
"You only have to see them in action at protests," said David Harding, spokesman at ARC, Hanson's aggregates company. "They walk around with mobile phones and camera equipment, they communicate and gather support for demos via the Internet -- we're talking about a highly sophisticated organisation."
One road protestor under the codename Steady Eddie told construction journal "Building" earlier this year, "If it comes down to full-scale economic warfare, we will aim to drive them out of business."
As well as financial threats, companies also emphasise the "terror" tactics used.
Costain's contract to build the controversial Newbury bypass, which runs through a conservation area, has led to violent protests delaying building, bomb threats, staff intimidation and picketing of chief executive Alan Lovell's home.
A Costain spokesman told Reuters:"We've had all sorts of protests at the head office and the chief executive's house. But it's when it gets to the (employee) families -- that it goes across the line."
Tactics used by some underground groups including the cryptic Berkshire Wood Elves, which distribute leaflets with instructions on home-made explosives, are now the subject of a police investigation.
Other larger activist groups include Earth First, The Land is Ours, Alarm UK and Road Alert.
The groups have targeted specific projects like the Newbury bypass and the M3 motorway through Twyford Down in the southern county of Hampshire.
But they are also campaigning on broader issue such as stopping the government road building programme and out-of-town superstores which they say create more traffic, pollution and damage local communities.
The government has slashed its road-building spending. Although protests may have contributed to the decision it has been seen primarily as economic rather than ecological.
Graham Watts, chief executive of the Construction Industry Council, said :"I don't think many firms involved in tendering for sensitive projects realise the impact environmental activity has on the cost of running a project.
"But they are more alert than they were 3-4 years ago. There's no doubt it's a big issue now."
He says the damage comes in two forms: "Tangible -- in the form of extra costs, additional security, threats to staff and the more intangible damage caused by negative publicity."
Watts said the cost of protesting can be heavy once the company is locked into a contract.
"I do often hear on the industry circuit of tales where the company tenders at low margins and the demonstrations which follow means they are running the project at a loss."
ARC says it's not just contractors in the front line but also suppliers like itself.
Its own quarries came under attack after it emerged that it may be a supplier for the Newbury bypass.
"It was called the "First Battle of the Newbury bypass'," said ARC's Harding.
"We had 300 Earth First protestors invade and occupy our site. Hundreds of thousands of pounds (dollars) of damage was done in one day. Plus there was the knock-on cost of lost production and extra security in future."
Simon Brown, analyst at investement bank UBS, said this new phenomenon has led to a change in the way the industry evaluates project risk.
"When talking to Tarmac about the M3 link (through Twyford Down) they made it fairly clear that their risk assessment methods have been changed and now involve a very clear environmental risk analysis."
Harding says others have done the same. "As a result of eco-terrorism we are looking at controversial jobs more closely to see if the profit margins are wide enough to cover things like extra security."
For an industry already suffering from razor-thin margins, overcapacity and stagnant demand, eco-terrorism is the latest bizarre twist in the construction sector's tale of woe.
Colombia's Foreign Relations Ministry said on Thursday it would give its "fullest attention" to recent accusations that oil giant British Petroleum was linked to political killings, but denied any official investigation was underway.
In a statement, the ministry said: "The allegations made (against BP) merit the government's fullest attention. But in the absence of judicial investigations it is irresponsible to give credit to such claims."
Attempts by the Colombian government to clear BP of the allegations fuelled new controversy on Thursday. Spokesmen at the chief prosecutor's office and for the attorney general said they had opened inquiries into a series of gross human rights abuses in the eastern oil-producing provinces of Casanare and Arauca, documented in a 1995 multi-agency report.
The report, a copy of which was shown to Reuters, blamed the military and paramilitary groups for seven murders since 1991 in Casanare, the centre of BP's Colombia operations, and another 17 in Arauca, Occidental Petroleum's base.
Neither company was mentioned by name but the report blamed oil companies for generating huge social upheaval in the region, stating: "The security forces are frequently operating outside the law and abusing peasants ... Oil exploration and production has generated harmful environmental and socioeconomic impacts and has provoked crime, sales of drugs and an increase in prostitution and begging."
In a statement last week, BP said it paid a "war tax" to the government, which was partly used for the army's counterinsurgency campaign against leftist guerrillas who regularly target foreign oil companies. It also said it provided non-lethal aid to the army and denied any links to irregular, or paramilitary forces.
In recent months British newspapers, based on first-hand accounts, alleged BP was behind the wave of killings carried out by right-wing death squads and the military in Casanare and had provided photos to the army of those community leaders opposed to its oil plans.
The backing for BP, Colombia's biggest single foreign investor, in a report that also praised its social contribution to the country, came the day after the government announced it would not sweeten the terms of its oil contract, which it complained was not profitable.
"We are investigating some of these accusations of extra-judicial killings and massacres contained in the 1995 report. It is certain the chief prosecutor's office is doing the same," said a source at the attorney general's office.
In a speech on Thursday, President Ernesto Samper rejected the European Parliament's recent stiff criticism of Colombia's human rights record.
"It is not true the Colombian security forces have developed an emergency strategy, characterised by aid to paramilitary groups, extra-judicial killings, torture and disappearances," he said at an official event in Bogota.
Moves toward just-in-time roasting and savage cuts in coffee inventories in consumer countries will force exporters, traders and processors to resort to sophisticated financial mechanisms to offset price volatility, the head of the International Coffee Organization said.
ICO chief Celsius Lodder predicted booming growth in risk management measures such as options, futures and secondary instruments and said they would become key in influencing short and medium term coffee prices.  
They will also replace more traditional methods of building up stocks, and other physical strategies, as a buffer to sudden swings in the market, he said.
Meanwhile, in some producer countries, growers may find themselves bearing an increasing responsibility for storing the crop, thereby seeing their costs pushed up.
"Risk management, similar to an insurance contract, will become an increasingly important instrument for exporters, traders and processors," Lodder said in a speech organized by Bogota's Los Andes University.  
"Growers and growers' cooperatives will have to take on greater responsibilities for storing inventories. This will push up costs, reduce their cash flow and mean much of the stocks will be stored in remote areas, delaying dispatch," the coffee chief said.
Despite the grim message that shifting trends in consumer countries could force their costs up higher, Lodder did offer a ray of hope for Colombian growers, already hard hit by the strengthening peso and the high cost of credit.  
Lodder highlighted the growing opportunity for niche marketing of specialist coffees in traditional markets where consumer palates are becoming more sophisticated even though the overall demand in those areas may have stagnated.
He also talked up prospects of new markets opening in the former Soviet Union and China. Colombia's President Ernesto Samper, and his official delegation, returned from the Far East at the end of last week. His itinerary included China and both he and his Foreign Minister Maria Emma Mejia were upbeat about the chance of selling the Colombian bean to the country's 1.3 billion-strong population.  
During the visit to Beijing and Shanghai, Mejia calculated that if Colombia could sell one cup of coffee a day to every inhabitant of China, the Communist nation would absorb Colombia's entire annual harvest.
National Coffee Growers' Federation chief Jorge Cardenas did his own calculations and worked out that Colombia would have to double its coffee harvest if it was looking to meet Mejia's target.
In his speech, Lodder recognized the ICO's changing role and agreed it was no realistic for it to adopt interventionist strategies in a globalized free market.  
"The patterns of economic and political cooperation seen in the 1960s have been replaced by a new  model, perhaps more realistic and certainly different. There's no consensus for a return to intervention but the ICO is a dynamic organization and it must reflect the current situation and not be constrained by its former role," he said.
"I believe the ICO must remain flexible and look for the broadest possible consensus and build on the foundations of our cooperation with trade experts."
He added that the ICO would concentrate on looking for specific solutions to specific problems as they arose throughout the coffee sector either in production or marketing.
Meanwhile, Colombia's transport system got back to normal this week after a crippling 11-day strike by truckers, which ended with an agreement early last Friday.
There has, nevertheless, been a significant delay in coffee deliveries and Cardenas forecast that about 150,000 60-kg sacks of coffee promised for October delivery would not in fact reach buyers until November.
-- Bogota newsroom 571 610 7944.
China said on Thursday its jailing of leading dissident Wang Dan for 11 years was not a human rights issue but an ordinary legal matter that would not hurt Beijing's sensitive relationship with the United States.
A Chinese court on Wednesday took less than four hours to condemn former student leader Wang for plotting against the government, in a verdict that prompted quick expressions of deep concern from Washington.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said the trial would not cause further damage to cross-Pacific ties, long sorely tested by disputes over Beijing's human rights record.
"The case of Wang Dan has nothing to do with the issue of human rights," Shen told a news briefing. "I don't think the case of Wang Dan will have any effect on Sino-U.S. relations."
The Beijing Number One Intermediate People's Court sentenced Wang, 27, to 11 years in prison and stripped him of his political rights for a further two years, after a brief hearing hailed by state media as a model of fairness.
International human right activists rushed to condemn the trial as a sham and the verdict as a travesty, while Wang's family said justice had not been served and vowed to appeal.
"Wang Dan's trial was a parody of justice," rights watchdog Amnesty International said in a statement. "It is clear that the verdict and sentence against him had been decided in advance."
Foreign reporters had been barred from the trial and the speed with which the official Xinhua news agency released a lengthy interview with the chief judge afterwards showed the report had been prepared in advance, Amnesty said.
Police posted outside Wang Dan's home in western Beijing blocked reporters from meeting his family, who plan to appeal as soon as they receive official notification of the verdict.
Two policemen had visited the family on Tuesday morning and others continued to keep constant watch, said the dissident's mother Wang Lingyun, a 61-year-old museum researcher who attended his trial as one of two defence lawyers.
"Wherever I go, they go," she said by telephone.
European governments expressed dismay at the severity of the sentence imposed on a dissident renowned abroad for his role as a leader of the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the army.
Wang, who once promoted free debate on the campus of Beijing University, had already served four years in prison for his role in the 1989 protests. He returned to political activism after his release, before vanishing into detention in May 1995.
Washington officials greeted the verdict against Wang with expressions of concern and high praise for the young dissident, hailing him as one of China's premier voices for human rights.
"We are deeply concerned by the sentence that has been given to Wang Dan," White House spokesman Mike McCurry said.
"We urge the Chinese authorities to show clemency to this courageous man, whose championing of democratic values has gained him deserved international recognition," said U.S. State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns.
Chinese spokesman Shen said Wang's conviction was purely a domestic legal affair.
"The trial of Wang Dan is entirely a Chinese legal procedure carried out in accordance with the law," he said. "It has no connection with human rights or other issues."
Sino-U.S. ties have long been strained by disputes over human rights, trade, copyright theft in China and Taiwan, but both sides say tensions have eased in recent months after a series of high-level meetings.
China hopes for a breakthrough to launch manned space flights early next century and planns to land a spacecraft on the moon in the 21st century, the Xinhua news agency said on Thursday.
Senior Chinese space officials had unveiled an ambitious, multi-million dollar and wide-ranging programme that was aimed at giving the country a competitive edge in international space development, Xinhua said, quoting senior officials.
China is known to be eager to push ahead with its space programme to expand its role in the commercial satellite business while winning international prestige through trumpeting its technological advances, industry analysts have said.
Manned space flights were being given top priority in China's space programme, which includes building a heavy solar satellite in partnership with Germany as well as developing a new generation of lightweight spacecraft to 'bus' satellites into orbit, Xinhua said.
"The country is expected to make a breakthrough in manned space technology at the beginning of the next century," Xinhua said, quoting Wang Liheng, vice-administrator of the China National Space Administration.
Wang gave no more details of the manned space flight programme, which has been rumoured for some time.
However, Li Jianzhong, president of the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, told Xinhua that China was pushing ahead with its goal to boost launch vehicle technology in the 21st century. He said the goal was to build rockets that could carry 20-tonne payloads -- more than twice the current capacity of the nation's most powerful launch vehicles.
China, which put its first satellite into orbit in 1970, has been trying to expand its role in the commercial space market, despite a series of recent setbacks.
In August a Long March 3 rocket, considered one of China's most reliable launch vehicles, failed to put a U.S.-built satellite into orbit. In February, technical flaws had even more disastrous results when a new generation Long March 3B rocket exploded shortly after take-off, killing six people.
Li said China also planned to develop a reuseable space transport system and vehicle re-entry and landing systems.
Cheng Fangyun of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) said a small spacecraft with low operating costs would be designed.
"China has reliable technology for space tracking, telemetry and control to do this," Xinhua quoted Cheng as saying.
In terms of moon exploration, China planned to provide cheap transport systems for lunar-landing spacecraft to explore the moon and developing lunar resources, Xinhua said.
Xu Fuxiang, president of the Chinese Academy of Space Technology, said items under development included a scientific satellite, the Shijian-5, which was light and cheap and would become a 'bus' for small satellites.
In solar observation, China and Germany were cooperating to produce a two-tonne lunar satellite equipped with a solar telescope. The $100 million satellite was expected to be sent into orbit around 2002, said CAS member Ai Guoxiang.
China has also decided to invest 170 million yuan to build the world's most advanced sky survey telescope that could observe at least 100 million galaxies, he said.
China was working on its own space station, Xinhua said.
It is cooperating with the United States and Russia to build a magnetic spectrograph aboard the Alfa station -- scheduled to be launched early next century -- that was expected to detect anti-matter and dark matter in the universe, Xinhua said.
Lauda Air is enjoying "huge passenger growth" on the Hong Kong to Vienna route but cargo is disappointing, the airline's Hong Kong general manager Sunny Yu told Reuters.
While there's been a 34 percent increase in the number of passengers along with a 42 percent growth in revenue over the past year, cargo revenue is up to three per cent below last year's level, he said. Lauda's Boeing 767-300 twice weekly flight from Hong Kong to Vienna via Bangkok averages eight to nine tonnes of belly cargo with watches a particularly common commodity, Yu said.
"Cargo is staying at more or less the same level as it was last year. A small price war and overcapacity with ad hoc charters operating into Hong Kong are major obstacles. I'm not optimistic about getting cargo rates back to the good old days," Yu said.
He said the cargo situation is not mirrored on the passenger side where Lauda expects another double digit rise in passenger numbers this year. The current number of passengers flying between Hong Kong and Vienna is around 9,000, Lauda says.
The Austria carrier also said it's being constricted in adding more frequencies to Hong Kong from its Vienna hub because of slot restrictions at Kai Tak airport but hopes to eventually benefit when the territory's new, round the clock airport opens in 18 months time. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017.
Major airlines operating cargo flights to Europe are to raise their ex-Hong Kong cargo rates by HK80 cents per kg from November 4 to try and offset increased jet fuel prices, airline officials told Reuters.
Stanley Hui, the chief operating officer of the territory's all-cargo airline, AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd, said an emergency meeting of airlines was held in Hong Kong this morning to discuss a fuel surcharge.
Among the airlines represented were Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd, Lufthansa Cargo, Air France, Martinair and Cargolux, he said.
However British Airways World Plc -- a major carrier from Hong Kong to London was not represented, industry sources said.
"Fuel costs have escalated to such a level that it is only right and fair that the shippers share some of the cost because the impact on the airlines has been very obvious," Hui said.
Other carriers operating trans-Pacific routes for instance are also expected to follow suit with a similar increase, Hui added.  
Philippe Bour, regional cargo manager for Air France in Hong Kong said his airline will apply the increase from November 4 along with Lufthansa Cargo. Cargolux, Air Hong Kong and other carriers would follow a few days later, he added.
"It is a world-wide problem. Fuel prices in France rose 51 per cent from June to October, in Asia they have risen 33 per cent this year and something has to be done. We hope this will help us," Bour said.
Another cargo manager said, "It is not a case of running out of patience but of running out of money."
Japan Airlines Co Limited yesterday reported a 60.7 percent slump in profits in the six months to September due to higher fuel costs and the yen's retreat against the dollar.
JAL said fuel costs had risen by US$128 million compared with a year ago.
Other major Asian cargo airlines in the region say they are watching the situation closely.
Ming Fai Lai, cargo manager for China Airlines in Hong Kong, said it is waiting before deciding to follow suit but said an 80 cents rise would only have a limited benefit.
"If all European carriers unanimously raise their rates then we will follow but it is not clear if they will all adopt the same policy. 80 cents may help a little bit but for the future I don't think it will help that much," said Lai. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus on Tuesday said the 1997 Czech state budget, to be presented to the full cabinet in September, plans an overall spending increase of 11.8 percent.
Speaking to reporters after a working session of economics ministers, Klaus also said he did not expect inflation to fall below eight percent next year.
The monetarist economist Klaus, who has said a balanced budget is the "Alpha and Omega" of his government, said spending increases would be largest in percentage terms for export supports, regional transportation, and housing.
He said the total expenditure side next year would rise 58 billion czech crowns ($2.21 billion) over expected 1996 spending to 549 billion crowns. The ministers were to discuss the revenue side of the budget later in September.
Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik said the full cabinet should get the full draft for discussion on September 20. When asked if there was talk among ministers of anything excpet a balanced budget Kocarnik replied tersely "No".
The government's draft budget has traditionally been debated and passed by mid-December.
Klaus's government has passed four straight balanced budgets, although it will discuss a plan on Wednesday to cut 1996 spending by another 9.3 billion crowns in order to balance this year's ledger.
Klaus said the expenditure figures were still subject to further discussion but he did not expect major changes. Fixed manadatory expenditures are forecast rising by 14.0 percent while discressionary spending would rise 9.9 percent.
Klaus added that state sector wages were planned to rise a nominal 12.4 percent in 1997, and he hoped that it would set an example for private sector budget planning.
"(The government) wants to send a message which would lead to a certain stoppage of the pace of wage increases also in the non-budget (private sector) sphere," Klaus said.
Earlier this month the central bank warned of inflationary wage rises not being matched by increases in productivity.
Klaus also said that he did not expect 1997 inflation to fall below eight percent, which was the government's target for lowering inflation in 1996.
"Unfortunately we don't expect a number lower than eight (percent)," he said.
He did not elaborate on if he meant average or year-on-year inflation. For budget purposes, however, the government usually speaks in terms of average inflation.
Czech year-on-year inflation stood at 9.4 percent in July, while the moving average stood at 8.6 percent.
The government in passing the 1996 budget forecast inflation for the year of roughly eight percent, but strong domestic demand has kept prices higher.
($1=26.24 Czech Crown)
Archer Daniels Midland Co., which earlier this month pleaded guilty to two counts of price fixing, took steps Thursday to ease the reins out of the hands of its 78-year-old chairman, Dwayne Andreas.
ADM, which faced strong criticism from big shareholders at its annual meeting on Oct. 17, said it formed a four-member office of the chief executive, a post that has been held solely by Andreas.
"The fact that they (ADM) listed the ages is signalling something: They're setting this up as part of their succession plan and ... there is more to come," Dain Bosworth analyst Bonnie Wittenburg said.
ADM also named replacements for two other executives who left the company earlier this month and remain targets for possible criminal indictments in the federal probe -- Vice Chairman Michael Andreas, the son of Dwayne Andreas, and Terrance Wilson, who had been group vice president in charge of corn refining.
The giant agricultural products company said the newly formed office of the chief executive will consist of Dwayne Andreas, James Randall, president, age 72, Charles Bayless, 61, president of ADM's processing division, and G. Allen Andreas, 53, a nephew of Dwayne Andreas and counsel to the executive committee of the board of directors.
Jon Lukomnik, New York City's deputy controller for pensions, which hold about 3.4 million ADM shares, applauded the executive realignment as a means to address succession. But he said more changes were needed within ADM's top ranks.
"There remains another issue, which is corporate culture," said Lukomnik.
New York City pension funds have been among several institutional shareholders pressing for changes in ADM's board and management in the wake of the U.S. antitrust investigation that targeted the company.
A shareholder proposal requiring that the Decatur, Ill.-based company's board be composed of a majority of independent directors was defeated at the annual meeting, but received an usually heavy 42 percent of the votes cast.
On Oct. 14, ADM agreed to pay $100 million in fines and pleaded guilty to fixing prices of lysine, a feed additive, and citric acid, an additive used in foods, beverages and other products.
Among the four-member office of the chief executive, Allen Andreas stands out given his experience building ADM's business in Europe, said Merrill Lynch's Leonard Teitelbaum.
"It goes a long way to putting the events of the last several months behind the company," Teitelbaum said of the management changes.
ADM made no mention of the antitrust investigation, which is continuing, although the company has been given immunity from further prospecution in return for its cooperation.
Earlier this month, ADM said Michael Andreas took a temporary leave and Wilson retired for health reasons. In its proxy statement for the annual meeting, ADM said indictments were being considered against the younger Andreas and Wilson.
The new vice chairman is Gaylor Coan, 60, an outside director, who heads Gold Kist Inc., a farmer-owned cooperative in Atlanta, Ga., that is the second-largest poultry processor in the United States and one of the largest shareholders of ADM.
ADM also named Larry Cunningham, 52, as president of ADM's corn processing division and a group vice president, in addition to his dutues as president of ADM's protein specialities.
The company's lysine and citric acid products are both derived from corn.
- Supermarket chain Food Lion Inc. said Thursday it will buy Tampa, Fla.-based Kash n' Karry Food Stores Inc. in a transaction valued at $341 million.
The two companies had been in talks for a transaction earlier this year, but dropped those discussions in August. It was not immediately known when talks resumed.
Under the agreement, Kash n' Karry shareholders will receive $26 per share in cash. The companies also said Food Lion will refinance $221 million of Kash n' Karry debt.
Supermarket chains have been gobbling each other up rapidly in a wave of industrywide consolidation.
The deal came one day after California-based grocery giant Safeway Inc. offered $2.3 billion for the 65.5 percent of supermarket chain Vons Cos. Inc  that it doesn't already own.
Earlier this year, Dutch group Ahold NV bought Massachusetts-based grocer Stop &amp; Shop Cos. for $1.8 billion.
Salisbury, N.C.-based Food Lion is a unit of Belgian retailer Delhaize.
Food Lion is one of the 10 largest U.S. supermarket chains with more than 1,100 stores in 14 states. Kash n' Karry has 100 food stores and other facilities in west central Florida.
Shares of both companies were halted for trading shortly before the market closed. Earlier, Food Lion shares were up 6.25 cents to $8.56 on Nasdaq and Kash n' Karry stock rose 25 cents to $24, also on Nasdaq.
"This agreement will enhance competition in west central Florida by putting the financial resources of Food Lion behind the Kash n' Karry name, enabling Kash n' Karry to position itself more effectively as a viable competitor with the area's major supermarket chains," said Tom Smith, chief executive officer of Food Lion.
Food Lion said it planned to invest up to $150 million to improve Kash n' Karry stores in the next four years, with funding expected to come from Kash n' Karry cash flow from operations.
"While allowing us to continue operating our stores under the Kash n' Karry banner, it gives us access to the capital we need to accelerate our store remodeling programme and grow our business," said Kash n' Karry Chairman Ronald Johnson.
The companies said the transaction will increase earnings per share for Food Lion and result in cost savings. They were not specific.
They also said the deal, which is expected to close by early 1997, has been been approved by Kash n' Karry's board of directors. The board will also recommend that Kash n' Karry shareholders support the merger.
Institutional investors who together own more than 51 percent of Kash n' Karry common stock also support the deal, the companies said.
Food Lion said it has received a commitment from Chase Manhattan Bank to arrange and syndicate a new credit facility that will replace Food Lion's current borrowing facility and provide financing for the deal.
PaineWebber Inc. submitted a fairness opinion to Kash n' Karry's board and is acting as financial advisor to Kash n' Karry in connection with the transaction.
Negotiators from General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers union appeared to be grinding toward a national contract deal Thursday as a local strike at a metal stamping plant threatened the automaker with As a marathon bargaining session that started at 10 a.m. EST Wednesday wore on, UAW officials said the two sides were closer to an agreement, but disagreements over job guarantees and plants on the selling block remained an obstacle.
UAW President Stephen Yokich was meeting in Detroit Thursday with members of the union's executive board, a body that would have to approve any deal. He was expected to return to the talks at GM's headquarters later Thursday.
"The feeling I had around here this morning was that there was some progress made last night," said UAW spokesman Reg McGhee. He declined to characterise the pace of talks Thursday afternoon.
Meanwhile, plant-level union officials said the number of workers idled by local strikes in Indianapolis and Janesville, Wis., could reach nearly 21,000 by Saturday.
GM truck plants in Moraine, Ohio, and Flint, Mich., were expected to run out of fenders, hoods, and other sheet-metal parts from GM's strikebound Indianapolis stamping plant by late Thursday night, officials at the plants said.
Flint employs about 2,000 workers and builds crew-cab and heavy-duty full-size pickup trucks, while Moraine employs about 4,000 and builds Chevrolet Blazer and GMC Jimmy compact sport/utility vehicles.
"B-crew will come in tonight and that'll be it," said George Dunaway, vice president of International Union of Electronics Workers Local 801 in Moraine. Although his union is not involved in the UAW talks, he supports the strikers in Indianapolis and Janesville, Wis.
"A lot of their concerns are our concerns," he said.
The remainder of the nine GM truck plants fed by Indianapolis are expected to halt operations soon. GM's Shreveport, La., compact pickup truck plant is scheduled to shut down during the day Friday, idling 2,500 workers, and the Linden, N.J. plant, which employs 2,500 and builds both compact pickups and sport/utility vehicles, will shut down Friday night.
GM's Fort Wayne plant laid off about 2,250 of its 2,600 workers as it halted production of GM's popular full-size Chevrolet and GMC pickup trucks Wednesday night. GM's other full-size truck plants in Pontiac, Mich., Oshawa, Ontario, and Silao, Mexico, are expected to follow close behind.
The strikes on Tuesday by 2,750 workers at Indianapolis and 4,800 workers in Janesville, Wis., have formed a two-pronged effort to squeeze GM's highly profitable light truck operations, increasing pressure for national and local settlements.
The shutdown of the Janesville plant alone could cost GM $50 million a week in pre-tax profits, adding to pressure on the automaker for national and local contract settlements, said David Healy, an auto analyst with Burnham Securities.
The southern Wisconsin factory is the sole source for GM's popular four-door, full-size Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. Analysts estimate that GM makes an average of $9,000 in variable profits on each of the trucks.
Meanwhile, other UAW locals sought to join the Indianapolis and Janesville walkouts. GM's Kokomo, Ind., electronics plant requested permission to send about 5,500 workers out on strike.
A walkout at that facility would be particularly damaging to GM because it supplies all of the automaker's North American assembly plants with engine electronics, audio systems and other parts.
The future of 12 domestic parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive remained a major sticking point in the negotiations. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs..
GM's stock gained 50 cents to close at $53.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
As the world's first Internet bank, Atlanta-based Security First Network Bank has had somewhat of an identity problem with potential customers.
"We get a lot of questions," Chief Executive Officer James Mahan III said. "Are you real? Are you virtual? Where are you really?"
Part consumer bank, part software testing site, Security First opened its virtual doors a year ago this month.
But now Security First plans to add actual doors, opening small offices in Atlanta, Cambridge, Mass., and Silicon Valley in California.
"I think we can more effectively market if we have a physical presence," Mahan said in an interview.
Comparing his bank to discount brokerage firm Charles Schwab &amp; Co., Mahan said having the offices may give customers a sense of security, even if they never use an office.
Security First's current location is on the Internet. The bank is one of five in the United States that operates directly on the Internet, according to the Bank Administration Institute.
Federally insured Security First can be accessed at Website (www.sfnb.com), which brings consumers to a home page that looks like a bank lobby.
Customers can reach their account anywhere they have access to the Internet, rather than being tied to a single terminal where they have finance software, like other computer banks.
"Our goal was to have a bank that was fully interactive, where an individual could see all his information," Mahan said.
Most Security First customers have a money market account and a demand deposit account. Customers can open a checking account with as little as $100, an amount most choose to start to make sure the bank works, Mahan said.
Customers can pay bills electronically, purchase certificates of deposits or acquire a Visa card. Security First is also hoping to offer brokerage products and first and second mortgage products by the end of the year. Funds can be accessed by automatic teller machine, and Security First absorbs interbank fees for using the machines.
With limited infrastructure, Security First can offer higher yields, Mahan said. The bank was offering a six-month CD with an annaul percentage yield of 5.9 percent.
Security First was spawned as an idea of Mahan, who was chief executive officer at Kentucky-based Cardinal Bancshares Inc., and his sister-in-law's husband, Michael McChesney, who was starting a security software firm.
"He educated me on the Internet for years and years and years," Mahan said. Mahan used the charter of one of Cardinal's thrifts, changed its name to Security First and used it to start the Internet bank.
McChesney's, firm, SecureWare Inc. developed software that Mahan said has military-grade security. So far, the bank has not had its security breached, Mahan said.
"That doesn't mean that there haven't been a number of sophisticated attempts," he said. "If you have enough money and enough time you can break into anything."
Outsiders agree that Security First has shown a record of being secure, avoiding viruses, data theft and other potential dangers of Internet commerce.
"They do use a level of security that the Pentagon reserves for its most secure and sensistive systems," said Paul Schmeltzer, executive vice president for network services at Southeast Switch Inc., the corporate organisation for the Honour Network, the fourth largest ATM network in the country. "Is any security design totally foolproof or totally secure? Probably not."
That software and others developed for the bank is likely to be the prime money maker for Security First. Mahan admits that Five Paces Inc., Security First's software unit, will be the prime contributor to the company's net income.
"The bank is really a test site to use as a demonstration for potential customers of the software business," said Gary Craft, an analyst who follows the bank for Alexandria, Va..-based Friedman, Billings, Ramsey &amp; Co.
Security First's stock is traded on Nasdaq.
Security First has opened about 5,600 accounts. Most of its customers are male, between the ages of 25 and 45, with average income above $63,000 a year. More than 80 percent own their own home, attractive demographics for marketing.
Security First has also attracted competition. This month, Atlanta Internet Bank opened for business.
Unlike Security First, Don Shapleigh, chief executive of Atlanta Internet, says he does not plan to open any customer offices. "I have the WorldNet. I have other ways to get out." Federally insured Atlanta Internet currently offers its services to subscribers of AT &amp; T's WorldNet Services.
Shapleigh also argues that Atlanta Internet is the first true Internet only bank, saying that Security First is really a software company.
"I'm not selling software," he said. "I'm a banker."
Atlanta Internet, which is a service provided by a unit of Carolina First Corp. can be reached on the Internet at (www.atlantabank.com).
When a company in California sells a book to a consumer in Canada from a Web site hosted on a computer in England, what laws govern the transaction?
As sales of all kinds of goods over the Internet continue to grow, questions are multiplying about basic regulations covering consumer protection, taxation and other issues.
"Most commercial law has built in a hidden assumption of geographical boundaries within which certain kinds of actions will occur," said Jerry Kaplan, who runs an Internet site called OnSale that auctions electronic merchandise. "Now the legal system is facing a medium which is inherently boundary-less."
For example, some states tax transactions that originate within their borders while others hope to collect so-called use taxes when their residents buy from out-of-state merchants. "Sin" laws on obscenity, gambling and sales of alcohol also differ from state to state and apply to some Web merchants.
With the potential for so much confusion, some online mavens argue the federal government should step in and set clear policies.
"The role of the federal government is to set national standards or national policy," said Gary Arlen, president of Arlen Communications and a leading analyst of online companies. "A lot of what we're talking about online transcends state borders and even national borders."
A top priority is protecting consumers' private information.
"More regulation is really needed on the privacy issues compared to other areas," said Jonathan Rosenoer, an attorney and author of the online "Cyberlaw" column. Existing laws protect some kinds of records, like medical data, but not other information, Rosenoer said.
Both real and imagined privacy violations are feeding public sentiment in favour of reform. Lexis-Nexis was deluged with protests last month after word spread that the database company was selling personal information such as social security numbers and maiden names over the Internet.
The company responded that its P-TRAK product no longer provided social security numbers and never contained maiden names. But it withdrew the names of thousands of individuals that asked to be deleted.
Following the controversey, the Federal Trade Commission asked Congress to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act, a law governing personal financial information held by credit agencies. The commission suggested the law be extended to cover nonfinancial information like social security numbers.
In many cases, however, the federal government is still deciding what steps to take.
The Treasury Department, which has a hand in tax policy, banking regulation and international trade, has several groups studying online commerce issues but has not reached any conclusions yet.
Top Treasury officials and banking regulators have expressed a desire not to intrude on the nascent market for electronic money. Some banks would like federal rules barring non-banks from issuing electronic money.
"Heavyhanded, pre-emptive attempts to regulate these products before any social risks have been demonstrated would handicap innovation," Federal Reserve Gov. Edward Kelley said earlier this month.
There is little confusion about criminal scheming online, however. The Federal Trade Commission, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission are all prosecuting online crooks and collecting complaints at their Web sites.
"It's not an area where we need new laws or new authority," John Stark, special counsel of Internet projects at the SEC said. "It's the same swindles, just in a different medium."
A strike at General Motors Corp.'s Indianapolis metal stamping plant is expected to force two more GM truck assembly plants to shut down Thursday night, ratcheting up the United Auto Workers union's bargaining pressure on the automaker.
A GM source said the two truck plants will run out of parts from Indianapolis late Thursday night during their second production shifts, joining a plant in Fort Wayne, Ind., that shut down Wednesday night.
The Fort Wayne plant laid off about 2,250 of its 2,600 workers as it halted production of GM's popular full-size Chevrolet and GMC pickup trucks.
The official declined to identify the plants, but said they will be among several still-operating truck facilities that receive hoods, fenders and other large body panels from Indianapolis, including Pontiac and Flint, Mich.; Oshawa, Ontario; Linden, N.J.; Shreveport, La.; Moraine, Ohio; and Silao, Mexico.
The strike by 2,750 workers at Indianapolis and a second walkout by 4,800 workers in Janesville, Wis., have formed a two-pronged effort to squeeze GM's highly profitable light truck operations.
Meanwhile, GM and the UAW continued a more than 24-hour bargaining session Thursday in an effort to hammer out a new national labour contract covering 215,000 GM hourly workers.
The marathon session, which started at about 10 a.m. EST, was the longest so far between the union and the world's largest automaker, said GM spokesman Charles Licari.
He declined to comment on any progress being made.
Typically, negotiators in labour contract talks for Detroit's Big Three automakers meet for long periods to work out final details just before reaching a tentative agreement.
But analysts say the dollar cost of lost truck production due to the Indianapolis and Janesville strikes could mount quickly, shutting off GM's biggest source of profits.
The shutdown of the Janesville plant alone could cost GM $50 million a week in pre-tax profits, adding to pressure on GM for national and local contract settlements, said David Healy, an auto analyst with Burnham Securities.
The southern Wisconsin factory is the sole source for GM's popular four-door, full-size Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. Analysts estimate that GM makes an average of $9,000 in variable profits on each of the trucks.
As its truck operations grind toward a halt, the company's U.S. car assembly plants affected by a three-week strike in Canada earlier this month are starting to come back to life.
GM said Thursday that 4,200 idled workers returned to their jobs at car plants in Flint, Mich., and Fairfax, Kansas, cutting the total number of U.S. workers laid off due to the Canadian Auto Workers walkout to 19,958.
The future of 12 domestic parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive has been a major sticking point in the negotiations. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs.
GM has already put two of the 12 plants on the sale block -- a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that together employ 2,100 workers.
GM's stock was off 50 cents at $52.875 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The U.S. food industry, besieged by years of slow growth, wants to whip up new business from people who don't cook.
Armed with a new study that predicts consumer spending on ready-made foods will accelerate in the next 10 years, food firms are reaching out to a generation that doesn't know the difference between baking powder and baking soda.  
"Consumers aren't looking anymore for a cake mix.  They want the slice of cake," said John Gray, executive director of the International Foodservice Distributors Association, which helped fund the study released this week.
Industry executives this week said they are developing fresh strategies to feed 18-to-24 year olds -- a generation that grew up with working mothers and microwave ovens.
"Cooking from scratch is diminishing: many consumers in 2005 will never have cooked a meal from basic ingredients," said the study by consulting firm McKinsey &amp; Co Inc titled "Foodservice 2005: Satisfying America's Changing Appetite."  
The study confirms trends that food manufacturers and food distributors already are seeing: harried consumers bypass the fresh meat and spice aisles of a supermarket in favor of sections selling barbecued chicken and ready-made salad.
The study projects the food industry will grow 1.6 percent per year to nearly $800 billion a year by 2005.  The foodservice sector is expected to capture nearly all of the anticipated incremental sales, pegged at $100 billion.  
"There is going to be a whole new plethora of different foodservice opportunities," said William Eacho, president and chief executive officer of  Atlantic Food Services, a Virginia-based foodservice distribution company.
Tomorrow's supermarkets are expected to have drive-up windows where consumers can buy ready-made meals.
Executives also envision stores that group food by meal categories so that shoppers can head right to the breakfast aisle instead of wandering throughout the store.  
The changes are expected to be especially challenging for food manufacturers, who may see shelf space for their products shrink as stores provide more ready-made products.
Nabisco Holdings Corp already is experimenting with ways to ensure its products are not lost in the shuffle.  The maker of items such as Oreo cookies and Grey Poupon mustard wants to leverage its brand popularity into ready-made meals.
"As a major food manufacturer, we ought to have our fair share of that growth," said Henry Lambert, president of Nabisco's food service company.  
That may mean developing a Grey Poupon-based sandwich spread for supermarket sandwiches or working with a dessert manufacturer to sell individual slices of cheesecake that contain Oreo cookies, Lambert said.
And demand for those kinds of products is expected to grow as consumers spend less time preparing meals.  Industry experts estimate people now spend about 20 minutes preparing a meal versus two hours of preparation time about 50 years ago.
"The meal is not the social setting of the evening anymore. It's a nuisance," said Robert Stauth, chairman and chief executive officer of food distributor Fleming Cos Inc.
America Online Inc, the world's largest online service, said with the changes it implemented earlier this fall and its major restructuring announced this week, it is seeing a renewed momentum.
Steve Case, AOL chairman and CEO, told the company's annual meeting that with the reoganization of AOL, its new flat-rate pricing, and its big accounting changes, "the pieces are now in place" for growth, not only in new subscribers, but with major new sources of revenue, such as advertising.  
"Now we have a new structure in place...and the momentum is stronger than ever," Case told shareholders, adding that in the month of October alone, AOL added 250,000 new subscribers, a sign of its "renewed momentum."
The company, which has seen its stock decline, has been under pressure from the lower-cost Internet access services and has seen its subscriber growth slow this summer.  
AOL, based in Dulles, Va., was further pressured when Microsoft Corp relaunched the Microsoft Network this month at a flat price of $19.95 for unlimited access, on par with most direct Internet access services.
Previously, AOL had added a 20/20 pricing plan to combat the growing competition, with 20 hours for $19.95 a month, in addition to its $9.95 for 10 hours plan.  But on Monday, it succumbed with its own flat rate $19.95 a month, and it will discontinue its direct Internet access, called GNN.  
Case and other AOL executives highlighted to shareholders how the company will see new sources of revenue from advertising and merchandising and how one area of its new business will be running on a cable industry model, with more revenues from advertising than subscriber fees.
"Increasingly, we are evolving where we depend less on subscriber revenue and increasingly on advertising and other sources," said Lennert Leader, the company's chief financial officer.  
One of the areas from which the company expects this growth to come is its new unit AOL Networks, headed by former MTV executive Bob Pittman, to oversee AOL's flagship online service.  The other two units in AOL's reorganization are its AOL Studios, to create content for its service and ANS Communications, to manage the core network infrastructure.
Pittman said he expects that in the future, over 50 percent of AOL's revenues will come from advertising and other revenue sources, such as merchandising the AOL brand name, through books, television, etc.  
"To me, it looks very similar to the cable network business," Pittman said, adding that in the early days of Viacom Inc's MTV network, subscriber revenue was greater than advertising revenue.  "Our growth curve looks very similar to the cable business.  Ad revenue is growing faster than subsciber revenues."
Pittman said he plans to "ride the tremendous wave" of AOL's brand recognition for new sources of revenue growth, for which he said there are multi-levels of possibilities. One area, he mentioned after his second day on the job, is the catalog business, which can move to electronic shopping.  
Shareholders, some of whom said the stock has been a very good investment because of its many stock splits, said they were pleased with AOL's recent actions, in particular the measure to restructure accounting methods.
"The fact that they are getting a more straightforward accounting system is a step in the right direction," said David Ryan, a retired shareholder from the Washington, D.C. area. "Their financial statements were hard to understand. It's more straightforward now."  Ryan said the stock has split three times since he has owned it in the past four or five years.  
AOL said on Monday that it will now expense all its marketing costs, which includes the hefty subscriber acquisition costs, as they are incurred, instead of deferring those costs over time.
To reflect those immediate changes, AOL is taking a $385 million restructuring charge in the September quarter, to account for the balance of its deferred subscriber acquisition costs.  AOL CFO Leader also told the meeting that the cost to acquire new subscribers will be lower in the future, as AOL depends less on sending out floppy disks, and as AOL comes with more new PCs.
"The good news is the growth is accelerating," Case said. "We have taken the step of expensing the marketing and we can avoid some of the debates about the earnings."
Officials of the six nations of the Mekong river region arrived in southwestern China on Tuesday for a ministerial conference intended to boost cooperation in an area long hobbled by distrust and war.
The sixth meeting of the Greater Mekong Sub-region (GMS) programme would begin in Kunming city on Wednesday, with ministers from Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Burma and China scheduled to review billions of dollars worth of regional infrastructure projects, officials at the conference said.
Ministers would consider an environmental action plan to curb deforestation on the upper reaches of the Mekong which borders or flows through all six nations, said Norida Morita of the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
The meeting would push forward the GMS programme from planning projects to implementation, Morita told reporters.
"The main thrust of the Greater Mekong activities is to link the six countries with a transport network," he said.
A proposed $490 million road to connect Bangkok with Phnom Penh and Ho Chi Minh city in southern Vietnam was one project expected to gain ministerial approval, officials said.
Other joint projects being considered include a $1.8 to $2.1 billion China to Southeast Asia railway and construction of a telecommunications and power transmission network.
Plans to boost infrastructure in the underdeveloped region were only one part of a programme that had helped speed the transformation of the area from wartorn backwater to an attractive investment destination, said GMS consultant David Husband of Global Economics Ltd.
China and Vietnam border troops and naval forces clashed repeatedly in the 1980s after a bloody border conflict in 1959.
Vietnamese troops fought Khmer Rouge guerrillas in Cambodia through the late 1980s, while drug lords and soldiers sparred along the Thai-Burmese border.
"The projects are the tangible results, but sub-regional cooperation is as much as anything about trust and goodwill," Husband told Reuters.
"This very coming together is testimony to the world that something is happening here," he said. "It has helped draw attention to the fact that there is peace in the region."
GMS supporters hope that this trust forged through shared economic and environmental projects will help build stability in the Mekong region, home to almost 230 million people.
Relations between the six nations have seldom been better, despite the Cambodian government's continuing war against the Khmer Rouge and the political divide between Burma's military junta and the country's democratic activists.
A rush of new interest in investment projects in the area was making the coordination of development a key issue at the Kunming conference, ADB's Morita said.
New development initiatives from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other countries were welcome, but should be organised to complement the development foundation built by the GMS programme and the ADB, he said.
Wheat is unlikely to become a casualty of the row between Beijing and Washington over U.S. arms sales to Taiwan since higher grain production in China is slashing the need for imports, traders said on Tuesday.
"As far as we see business, we could well not have anything with China for the rest of this year," a U.S. trader said.
"The (Chinese) domestic crop looks good, they have cancelled a lot of orders already. Canada has enough to hold China if they do need to get into the market," she said.
China's 1996/97 wheat production is expected to hit a record 107 million tonnes, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said earlier this month, raising its estimate from 104 million tonnes.
As a result, total imports were also revised downward by one million tonnes to eight million tonnes.
A new war of words broke out between Beijing and Washington this month after the Pentagon said Taiwan wanted to buy missiles and other weaponry worth around US$420 million.
Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a renegade province since Nationalists fled there after losing the civil war in 1949. It opposes the sale of weapons to the island.
China has demanded the United States cancel plans for these latest arms sales to prevent "new damage" to bilateral ties.
Sino-U.S. ties have see-sawed in recent years over disputes ranging from human rights abuses and widespread copyright piracy in China to alleged nuclear proliferation by Beijing.
Ties had been slowly recovering after reaching a nadir in June 1995 with a U.S. visit by Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui.
China had cancelled around 1.4 million tonnes of wheat orders from the United States since early June, the USDA said.
While some trading sources have speculated that the cancellations could be in retaliation for stalled bilateral negotiations over a fungus called tilletia controversa kuhn, or TCK smut, others put them down to the good Chinese crop outlook.
China is expected, however, to maintain its traditonal level of wheat imports from Canada of around five million tonnes a year. Canadian trade sources have said China's buying programme has already begun.
None of this has deterred U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman from his optimism that China will remain a committed buyer of U.S. wheat.
"I think the key issue myself with China is supplies in China," Glickman said in Chicago on Monday.
China imported 11.59 million tonnes of wheat in 1995, up 58.7 percent from the 7.3 million tonnes the year before.
China called on Taiwan on Tuesday to show goodwill by lifting a decades-old ban on direct trade and transport links, saying attempts by the island nation to block such links would be futile.
"Obstructing the three links between the two sides...will be futile...is against the will of the people on both sides," a commentary by the Xinhua news agency said of Taiwan's ban on direct trade, transport and mail links with China.
"(We) hope the Taiwan authorities can make a pragmatic, goodwill response," said the commentary carried by major newspapers on Tuesday.
Last week, China introduced a series of regulations to pave the way for direct shipping links.
Taiwan has banned direct trade, transport and mail links with China since Mao Zedong's communist army defeated and drove Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist troops to the island at the end of a civil war in 1949.
Indirect links between the two sides have been allowed since the late 1980s through Hong Kong or a third country.
The commentary accused the Taiwan authorities of creating obstacles to direct trade and transport links in recent years, saying this would not be conducive to prospects for peaceful reunification. The commentary did not explain how it would not be conducive.
China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and has threatened to invade if the island declared independence. It has also sought to push Taipei into diplomatic isolation.
Many Taiwanese businessmen, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, clamour for direct trade and transport links, but Taiwan has been reluctant to lift the ban, which it views as its last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
Taiwan says it is committed to reunification but stresses this cannot be achieved overnight.
Last week China heaped pressure on Taiwan by offering to hold political talks to end almost five decades of hostility.
Nearly 80 prominent Taiwanese business leaders and politicians were scheduled to arrive in Beijing on Tuesday for a a high-profile, 12-day visit, despite reservations voiced by the island's leaders about depending too heavily on China.
The visit has aroused attention because the delegation is led by Kao Ching-yuan, a senior member of Taiwan's ruling Nationalist Party and vice-chairman of President Enterprises, the island's biggest investor in China.
Taiwanese newspapers said Kao would meet Chinese President Jiang Zemin and other senior officials.
The trip comes less than two weeks after Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui called for a review of economic policy toward China with the aim of avoiding over dependence on the mainland.
The China Times Express newspaper in Taipei said on Sunday that Taiwan's economic planners had drawn up measures -- including contingency plans to restrict Taiwanese investment on the mainland -- if Taiwan-China relations deteriorate.
The Taiwanese delegation would be the largest to visit China since easing tensions across the Taiwan Strait began to fray in mid-1995 over a landmark, private visit by Taiwan's President Lee to the United States.
In apparent retaliation, China denounced Lee and held intimidatory war games off Taiwan before the island's historic presidential elections in March in which Lee was re-elected.
Computer distribution powerhouse Ingram Micro Inc. is set to hold its widely anticipated initial public offering on Wall Street Thursday despite some last-minute delays, including management changes.
"We haven't seen anything comparable in the technology sector with its kind of name this year," said Manish Shah, editor and publisher of the IPO Maven, of the new issue.
Anticipating heavy demand, the estimated price on Ingram's 20 million share offering was boosted to $17 to $19 a share Wednesday from $14 to $16, said underwriter Morgan Stanley.  
As the world's leading distributor of computer hardware, software and networking equipment to corporate resellers and computer retailers, Santa Ana, Calif.-based Ingram is a veritable steam-engine of computer industry growth.
There are really only three world-class distributors of computer products: Ingram, with revenues expected to hit roughly $10 billion this year, Merisel Inc. with $6 billion and Tech Data Corp. at $4 billion.  
That size advantage is crucial said Seymour Merrin, a leading industry analyst, who heads Merrin Information Services Inc. in Palo Alto, Calif. "Market share isn't just an important factor," Merrin said. "It's the only factor."
Ingram's suppliers read like a Who's Who of the leading computer brands -- names like IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Cisco, Apple, Novell and U.S. Robotics. And like many of those names, Ingram is seen as the undisputed leader in its own industry.
Its main customers are not end-users of technology products, but the middlemen of distribution -- corporate resellers, systems intergrators and computer retailers.  
"Ingram's got it all: distribution power, brand quality and customer or franchise loyalty," Shah said.
Underlying excitement about the new stock is a belief that Ingram is positioned to benefit directly from a multi-year computer buying boom expected to take hold later this year or early in 1997 and last for anywhere from two to four years.
Companies are preparing to upgrade to faster Intel Pentium PCs running Microsoft Windows NT and buy a host of related products made passible by the more powerful machines.  
In one important respect, however, Ingram should not be classified with other top technology names famous for their explosive earnings growth and spiraling stock prices.
Ingram competes in a brutal low-margin business that has more in common with supermarkets or trucking than computers -- its profit margins have in fact declined to 6.8 percent in the first half of 1996 from 8.1 percent in 1993.
The company's path to Wall Street has not been without its detours and mishaps.  
An anticipated public offering was temporarily derailed earlier in the year when Linwood "Chip" Lacy -- the engineer credited with driving Ingram Micro's growth over the years -- resigned as chairman and chief executive.
Ingram located a prominent replacement in Jerre Stead, the former head of mainframe software maker Legent Corp. until its 1995 acqusition by Computer Associates International Inc. It named Michael Grainger chief finacial officer two weeks ago.
But any Ingram doubters will remain on the sidelines Thursday.  
"It is definitely one of the best offerings of the year. There is great demand," said Shah for shares of the stock. "I think it will remain strong and by the end of year, it could be a $30 stock," he added.  
In an industry known for its love of jargon, computer business insiders speak with a mix of reverential awe about "the Channel" - short for distribution channel and the delivery mechanism that has make-or-break control over the future of any computer product.
Ingram is to "the Channel" what Microsoft is to software, Intel is to microprocessors and Cisco is to networking.
Local strikes in Wisconsin and Indiana began taking a larger toll on General Motors Corp. truck operations Wednesday, increasing pressure on the automaker for a new national contract with the United Auo Workers union.
GM said the walkout that started Tuesday night at its Indianapolis metal stamping plant forced the company to lay off 2,250 workers at its Fort Wayne, Ind., plant and halt production of full-size Chevrolet and GMC pickup trucks.
The plant ran out of hoods, doors, fenders and other major body panels made by striking workers in Indianapolis, said GM spokesman Jeffrey Kuhlman.
No other plants were in immediate danger of halting production Wednesday night, but the strikebound Indianapolis plant has stopped shipments to nine of GM's 11 North American truck assembly plants, threatening more shutdowns within days.
Meanwhile talks between GM and UAW bargainers continued late into the night Wednesday in an effort to reach a new national agreement covering 215,000 GM hourly workers. Company officials declined to comment on progress of the negotiations.
Analysts said Wednesday the cost of the strikes by 2,750 workers in Indianapolis and 4,800 workers at its Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant could mount quickly, eating into profits from GM's lucrative light truck operations.
The shutdown of the Janesville plant alone could cost GM $50 million a week in pre-tax profits, said David Healy, an auto analyst with Burnham Securities.
The southern Wisconsin factory, which employs 4,800 workers, is the sole source for GM's popular four-door, full-size Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. Analysts estimate that GM makes about $9,000 in variable profits on each of the trucks.
In addition to Janesville and Fort Wayne, the Indianapolis plant supplies facilities in Pontiac and Flint, Mich.; Oshawa, Ontario; Linden, N.J.; Shreveport, La.; Moraine, Ohio, and Silao, Mexico.
"It really starts to add up quickly when you add in all of the other big C/K pickups they can lose," said Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi.
The UAW strikes came as GM continued to stagger from a three-week strike in Canada that curtailed production at a number of U.S. plants and may cost up to $450 million.
On Wednesday GM said it still had 23,158 U.S. workers idled due to shortages of Canadian-made parts, but added that 3,200 workers at its Buick City assembly plant in Flint, Mich., were scheduled to return to work on Thursday.
No other UAW strikes had started on Wednesday, but UAW spokesman Reg McGhee said the union was not ruling out other walkouts. UAW President Stephen Yokich raised the threat of local strikes on Monday after GM's national contract covering 215,000 UAW workers expired.
"Steve made it clear that without a national contract, the locals are on their own," McGhee said, noting that they do not have to provide GM with the typical five-day notice before a walkout.
Some UAW officials speculated that other stamping and parts plants may also be struck but others expressed concern that widespread walkouts so close to next week's national election would hurt Democratic candidates.
Although UAW officials said the strikes were called over local issues, analysts said it was clear that the actions were aimed at pushing GM into a tentative national agreement.
That may take place before Saturday, when about 250 UAW leaders from GM plants across the nation are scheduled to meet in Detroit to discuss the status of the talks.
The future of 12 domestic parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive remained a major sticking point in the negotiations Wednesday. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs.
GM has already put two of the 12 plants on the sale block -- a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that together employ 2,100 workers.
"We know the sale is going to happen. We're concerned about what's going to happen to us," said Whitey Hale, president of UAW Local 326 in Flint.
An outbreak of bacterial food poisoning that sickened at least 13 children and young adults in the Seattle area has been traced to one company's tainted apple juice, health officials said on Wednesday.
Odwalla Inc, a rapidly growing fresh juice and beverage company based in Half Moon Bay, California, issued a nationwide recall of products containing fresh apple juice, and many retailers pulled all Odwalla beverages from their shelves.
State and county health officials said 10 of the 13 confirmed cases of E. coli food poisoning had been conclusively traced to the unpasteurized Odwalla juice and the remaining three were under investigation.
At least eight more suspected cases have been reported, Dr. Mimi Fields, the state's deputy health secretary, said.
"It's difficult to know where we are on the epidenmic curve, although I don't think we are going to see a large influx of masses of new cases," Fields told Reuters.
The outbreak was the state's worst since some 500 people became ill in the Seattle area and three children died in 1993 after eating undercooked hamburgers.
While adults may suffer diarrhea, stomach cramps or more mild, flulike symptoms after eating food tainted by the bacterium, young children are more susceptible to the disease and may suffer sudden kidney failure that can lead to permanent brain damage or death.
In the current outbreak, six children have been hospitalized, including two who required dialysis. Officials said all the children had been released except for one 2-year-old boy, who was in satisfactory condition.
The strain of E. coli implicated in the outbreak normally lives in the digestion system of cattle and can spread into the food chain through slaughterhouse contamination or   fertilizer
that includes steer manure.
Health officials said juice can be tainted when fruit falls onto fertilized ground and is not washed properly.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has launched an investigation and will be inspecting Odwalla's plant in Dinuba, California, health officials said.
"Our first concern is for the health and safety of those affected," Odwalla chief executive officer Stephen Williamson said in a statement. He said the company was cooperating fully with health authorities.
Although so far all the cases have been traced to Odwalla juice, authorities recommended that consumers in the Seattle area boil unpasteurized apple juice or cider for 10 seconds before drinking it until the investigation was complete.
Odwalla, which bills itself as the "leading branded fresh juice and beverage company," distributes its beverages in pint plastic bottles to supermarkets and retail outlets in Washington, Oregon, California, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada and British Columbia.
In the fiscal year that ended Aug. 31, the company reported its sales rose 65 percent to $59.2 million from $35.9 million. But net income fell to $633,000, or 12 cents a share, from $997,000, or 22 cents a share.
Microsoft Corp Wednesday launched electronic commerce software and a wide array of partners aimed at enabling consumers and businesses to buy and sell products over the World Wide Web.
At the core of the announcement is Microsoft's Merchant Server, software which will enable businesses to set up electronic storefronts on the Internet, and a plan to build a new channel of service providers to help businesses do this.
Analysts said the strategy was similar to that successfully used by Novell Inc to sell networking software.
"We believe there will be explosive growth (in use of the Web for shopping)," Microsoft Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Gates said at a news conference unveiling the company's electronic commerce strategy.
Microsoft also revealed 40 companies that are in the process of building Merchant Server sites and Henry Vigil, general manager of electronic commerce services at Microsoft, said he expects 300 sites using the software by year-end.
The product competes with an array of prior offerings, including those of Netscape Communications Corp and Internet startup Open Market, as well as Oracle Corp and International Business Machines Corp.
As part of the deal, Microsoft and VeriFone Inc brought together financial institutions and payment processors to provide a secure Internet retailing and payment system.
The financial institutions involved include BankAmerica Corp, Wells Fargo &amp; Co, Citicorp's Citibank Card Acceptance Europe, First USA Paymenteck Inc, NOVUS Services and Royal Bank of Canada.
Much of the technology was made available to partners for testing in August and was developed by eShop, which Microsoft acquired in June, company officials said.
In addition to the infrastructure partners, Vigil said a key priority was "trying to get this new channel built where we see a range of hosting service providers who are really going to be the ones who lease the T1 lines and run the servers on behalf of merchants who are not technologists."
One such company, Boca Raton, Fl.-based Internet Communication Network, Corp., has been in business less than a year and already has some 50 customer Web sites in operation, including one using the Merchant Server, according to David Finkelstein, president of ICA.
James Dee, a specialist New York City photographer, said he had chosen to go through a networking service and support firm using the Merchant Server product to start up a new gallery to sell original contemporary artwork on the Web.
The site was set up in less than a month, he said, and Sarala Dee said the cost of getting the cyberspace gallery under way would amount to some $30,000 to $40,000.
But analysts said the market still may take a long time to develop into the multi-billion dollar market some Internet enthusiasts project.
"As Gates said clearly this is a beginning market," said Kathey Hale, an analyst at Dataquest.
Gates cited Microsoft and industry estimates that the number of consumers on the World Wide Web would more than triple between now and the year 2000, to 48 million.
The number of businesses on the Web is projected to grow four-fold by the year 2000 to two million from 500,000 currently, Gates said.
David Cuursey, who publishes the Coursey.com newsletter on the Internet, said estimates the minimum price for a decent store using the software is $100,000.
"The point of it is that for a lot of people setting up a virtual store it will be also as expensive to create and maintain as a real store," he said. "You're not going to use this technology to take advantage of it for less than $100,000."
Britain's commercial television watchdog on Thursday invited applications to run terrestrial frequencies which will multiply the number of channels available to viewers in the new digital age.
"This is a very important day for U.K. viewers...as many as 35 or 36 channels could be available on digital terrestrial television," said Peter Rogers, chief executive of the Independent Television Commission (ITC).
The ITC is seeking applications to operate four "multiplexes", as the blocks of frequencies are known. Each block can carry as many as six digital channels.
The BBC has already been earmarked its own multiplex and commercial networks ITV and Channel 4 will share one.
The ITC will award the 12-year licences on criteria including speed of roll-out of the service and the appeal of programming but a cash bid will not be required. Licences are expected to be awarded next spring and broadcasting could begin by mid-1998.
Britain is leading the way in the development of digital terrestrial television but some observers question whether it will succeed.
Pay television operator BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is the largest shareholder, plans to launch a digital satellite service into Britain in late 1997 -- several months ahead of the terrestrial version.
The satellite version could offer several hundred channels and BSkyB's control of key movie and sporting rights is likely to make it an attractive proposition.
Rogers told a news conference he was confident the terrestrial option would prove attractive to investors.
"I would be surprised and disappointed if we didn't have applications for all of the multiplexes," he said.
His view was shared by Paul Styles, a media expert at consultancy and accounting firm KPMG.
"Most people perceive digital bandwith to be valuable so I think there will be interest in the multiplexes," he said.
"This will not be an overnight sensation but a business to be built," he said, identifying ITV companies, cable groups and BSkyB itself as potential licence applicants.
Digital technology increases the number of channels which can be transmitted and enhances sound and picture quality. it also enables interactive services such as home shopping and home banking to be created.
Digital means converting sound and pictures into binary digits -- a series of noughts and ones -- rather than transmitting them as electric signals as now happens. A set-top box or "decoder" will be required to receive digital services.
This is also a source of controversy, as ITC officials admit that there is no current British or European legislation to enforce a common standard for decoders.
That means that consumers could theoretically have to pay several hundred pounds (dollars) for a set-top box to receive BSkyB's digital services and then have to buy a second box a few months later to receive digital terrestrial.
Scotish-based hotels and casinos group Stakis Plc launched a huge cash call to fund a 327 million pound ($530 million) acquisition of British conglomerate Lonrho's five Metropole hotels announced on Thursday.
Stakis, which has about 46 British hotels and whose current market value is only about 472 million pounds, said it wanted to raise 222 million pounds via a four-for-seven rights issue, set at 82 pence per share.
Last month, Lonrho shelved plans for a 700 million pound flotation of its Metropole and its North American-based Princess luxury resort hotels because of the level of interest it had received from potential buyers.
Saudi billionaire Prince al-Waleed bin Talal has been tipped as the most likely buyer of the 10 five-star Princess hotels.
Lonrho, which is in the throes of a demerger, said in a separate statement that the disposal would generate net proceeds of 316 million pounds as well as payments of 63 million pounds in dividends and tax relief that it will receive from the chain.
"The proposed sale of Metropole Hotels represents an important step in the separation of Lonrho's mining and non-mining assets...," said Lonrho chairman John Leahy.
"The board of Lonrho continues to make progress with the next steps of the separation process," he added in a statement.
The sale of the hotels, which will be followed by the divestment of the group's African trading operations, is part of Lonrho's plans to turn itself into a focussed mining company and ends 30 years of empire building by founder Tiny Rowland.
Stakis had been the front-runner to buy the conglomerate's Metropole chain -- four-star hotels with extensive conference facilities -- since rival Millennium &amp; Copthorne Hotels  MLC.L pulled out of the bidding race earlier this month.
In a profit forecast, the hotels group said its profit before tax and exceptionals would be not less than 30.6 million pounds in the year to September 30.
Stakis, which said returns on the acquisition were expected to enhance earnings from the first year, also forecast a final dividend of 1.2 pence per share, giving a total payout of 2.15 pence for the full year -- 23 percent more than last year.
Analysts welcomed the deal that helped strengthen Stakis' share price 1.5 pence to 100 pence.
"The numbers stack up. I have no problem with their strategy," said Matthew Nayler, leisure analyst at brokers Williams de Broe.
But some analysts said that Stakis would have to boost profits at the five hotels -- in the cities of London and Birmingham and the seaside resorts of Brighton and Blackpool -- by at least 12 percent for the purchase to be profitable.
Analysts, who have said a sale of the hotels is easier and cleaner than a float amid a glut of companies coming to Britian's market, are now awaiting news on whether Prince al-Waleed has clinched a deal to buy the Princess hotels, which include resorts in Acapulco, Mexico, the Caribbean and the U.S..
Financial sources in the Gulf said earlier this month that the prince had exclusive rights to negotiate a deal and that the price was $300 million. The prince's key western investments include stakes in New York's luxury Plaza hotel, the Four Seasons hotel group, banking group Citicorp and the Disneyland Paris theme park. ($1=.6165 Pound)
Archer Daniels Midland Co likely will face criminal charges in a U.S. government price-fixing investigation after three companies pleaded guilty, legal experts said Tuesday.
"It puts them (ADM) on notice that their alleged co-conspirators are cooperating with the government, providing both documents and oral testimony," said Robert Stephenson, an attorney with Cotsirilos, Stephenson, Tighe &amp; Streicker in Chicago. "The table stakes have significantly increased that ADM will be charged."  
An ADM spokeswoman said the company declined to comment. The other three firms  admitted to conspiracy in price-fixing of lysine, a feed additive.
Stephenson has no direct involvement in the ADM case but is experienced in antitrust cases.
Earlier the Justice Department said Ajinomoto Co Inc and Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co Ltd of Tokyo and the U.S. unit of Sewon Co Ltd of South Korea admitted conspiring to fix prices to eliminate competition in the world lysine market. They also agreed to cooperate fully with the investigation by providing witnesses and documents.  
"If they (the government) have signed some of the potential defendants to plea agreements that include a commitment to cooperate, that puts tremendous pressure on the remaining potential defendant, of which ADM is obviously one," said Joe Sims, an attorney with Jones, Day, Reavis &amp; Pogue.
At this point, he added, ADM may decide to enter a plea or may face indictment.
"Either one of those things can come reasonably promptly," said Sims, an antitrust expert who is not directly involved in the ADM case. "I would not be surprised to see something in the next 30 days."  
If ADM should decide to enter a plea, analysts said it could easily afford the $10 million fines that were levied against Ajinomoto and Kyowa.
"Those are not the kinds of fines that are going to break the company," Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman said.
He added that, as of March 1996, ADM had about $3.0 billion in working capital.
In a separate proceeding, ADM has agreed to pay $25 million to settle a civil lysine price-fixing lawsuit brought by its customers as part of an overall $45 million settlement that also involves Ajinomoto and Kyowa Hakko.  
The guilty pleas by Ajinomoto, Kyowa Hakko and Sewon came about 14 months after ADM acknowleged the government had asked it for documents and testimony in an antitrust investigation. That probe included high-fructose corn syrup, citric acid and lysine.
Since the beginning, ADM has denied any wrongdoing and has said it cooperated fully with the investigation.
One wrinkle in the case, however, has been the controversy surrounding Mark Whitacre, a former president of ADM's BioProducts Division, who acted as a government informant in the probe for about three years. Whitacre was fired by ADM last year over allegations he embezzled millions of dollars from the company.
Stephenson said the guilty pleas by Ajinomoto, Kyowa Hakko and Sewon diminish the government's need to rely on Whitacre as a witness against ADM.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787
Computer distribution powerhouse Ingram Micro Inc. is set to hold its widely anticipated initial public offering on Wall Street Thursday despite some last-minute delays, including management changes.
"We haven't seen anything comparable in the technology sector with its kind of name this year," said Manish Shah, editor and publisher of the IPO Maven, of the new issue.
Anticipating heavy demand, the estimated price on Ingram's 20 million share offering was boosted to $17 to $19 a share Wednesday from $14 to $16, said underwriter Morgan Stanley.
As the world's leading distributor of computer hardware, software and networking equipment to corporate resellers and computer retailers, Santa Ana, Calif.-based Ingram is a veritable steam-engine of computer industry growth.
There are really only three world-class distributors of computer products: Ingram, with revenues expected to hit roughly $10 billion this year, Merisel Inc. with $6 billion and Tech Data Corp. at $4 billion.
That size advantage is crucial said Seymour Merrin, a leading industry analyst, who heads Merrin Information Services Inc. in Palo Alto, Calif. "Market share isn't just an important factor," Merrin said. "It's the only factor."
Ingram's suppliers read like a Who's Who of the leading computer brands -- names like IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Cisco, Apple, Novell and U.S. Robotics. And like many of those names, Ingram is seen as the undisputed leader in its own industry.
Its main customers are not end-users of technology products, but the middlemen of distribution -- corporate resellers, systems intergrators and computer retailers.
"Ingram's got it all: distribution power, brand quality and customer or franchise loyalty," Shah said.
Underlying excitement about the new stock is a belief that Ingram is positioned to benefit directly from a multi-year computer buying boom expected to take hold later this year or early in 1997 and last for anywhere from two to four years.
Companies are preparing to upgrade to faster Intel Pentium PCs running Microsoft Windows NT and buy a host of related products made passible by the more powerful machines.
"We are coming close to the proverbial elbow of the hockey stick," said Merrin, referring to the hook upwards on sales charts that signifies explosive growth.
In one important respect, however, Ingram should not be classified with other top technology names famous for their explosive earnings growth and spiraling stock prices.
Ingram competes in a brutal low-margin business that has more in common with supermarkets or trucking than computers -- its profit margins have in fact declined to 6.8 percent in the first half of 1996 from 8.1 percent in 1993.
The company's path to Wall Street has not been without its detours and mishaps.
An anticipated public offering was temporarily derailed earlier in the year when Linwood "Chip" Lacy -- the engineer credited with driving Ingram Micro's growth over the years -- resigned as chairman and chief executive.
Ingram located a prominent replacement in Jerre Stead, the former head of mainframe software maker Legent Corp. until its 1995 acqusition by Computer Associates International Inc. It named Michael Grainger chief finacial officer two weeks ago.
But any Ingram doubters will remain on the sidelines Thursday.
"It is definitely one of the best offerings of the year. There is great demand," said Shah for shares of the stock. "I think it will remain strong and by the end of year, it could be a $30 stock," he added.
Local strikes in Wisconsin and Indiana began taking their toll on the rest of General Motors Corp.'s truck production Wednesday, clouding the automaker's national contract talks with the United Auto Workers.
GM said the day-old walkout at its Indianapolis metal stamping plant would force it to halt production of full-size Chevrolet and GMC pickup trucks at its Fort Wayne, Ind., assembly plant Wednesday night.
The Indianapolis walkout on Tuesday has halted shipments of major steel body panels to nine of GM's 11 North American truck assembly plants, threatening to shut them down within days.
Analysts said Wednesday the cost of the strikes by 2,750 workers in Indianapolis and 4,800 workers at its Janesville, Wis., truck assembly plant could mount quickly, eating into profits from GM's lucrative light truck operations.
The shutdown of the Janesville plant alone could cost GM $50 million a week in pre-tax profits, said David Healy, an auto analyst with Burnham Securities.
The southern Wisconsin factory, which employs 4,800 workers, is the sole source for GM's popular four-door, full-size Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon sport utility vehicles. Analysts estimate that GM makes about $9,000 in variable profits on each of the trucks.
In addition to Janesville and Fort Wayne, the Indianapolis plant supplies facilities in Pontiac and Flint, Mich.; Oshawa, Ontario; Linden, N.J.; Shreveport, La.; Moraine, Ohio, and Silao, Mexico.
"It really starts to add up quickly when you add in all of the other big C/K pickups they can lose," said Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi.
The UAW strikes came as GM is still staggering from a three-week strike in Canada that curtailed production at a number of U.S. plants and may cost up to $450 million.
On Wednesday, GM said it still had 23,158 U.S. workers idled due to shortages of Canadian-made parts, but added that 3,200 workers at its Buick City assembly plant in Flint, Mich., were scheduled to return to work on Thursday.
No other UAW strikes had started on Wednesday, but UAW spokesman Reg McGhee said the union was not ruling out other walkouts. UAW President Stephen Yokich raised the threat of local strikes on Monday after GM's national contract covering 215,000 UAW workers expired.
"Steve made it clear that without a national contract, the locals are on their own," McGhee said, noting that they do not have to provide GM with the typical five-day notice before a walkout.
Some UAW officials speculated that other stamping and parts plants may also be struck, because they would force shutdowns at other facilities.
National contract talks continued Wednesday at GM's Detroit headquarters, but officials declined to say whether progress was being made.
"Talks are taking place at all levels," said GM spokesman Charles Licari.
Although UAW officials said the strikes were called over local issues, analysts said it was clear that the actions were aimed at pushing GM into a tentative national agreement.
That may take place before Saturday, when about 250 UAW leaders from GM plants across the nation are scheduled to meet in Detroit to discuss the status of the talks.
The future of 12 domestic parts plants that GM considers uncompetitive remained a major sticking point in the negotiations Wednesday. GM wants to exclude several of the plants from union demands that it guarantee employment for 95 percent of UAW workers over the next three years.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. have already granted such guarantees, but GM, the least efficient of Detroit's Big Three automakers, wants changes to the pattern to allow it to cut costs.
GM has already put two of the 12 plants on the sale block -- a door hinge plant in Flint, Mich., and an interior trim plant in Livonia, Mich., that together employ 2,100 workers.
"We know the sale is going to happen. We're concerned about what's going to happen to us," said Whitey Hale, president of UAW Local 326 in Flint.
Apple Computer Inc. plans to release a new line of computers as early as 1998 that will run an operating system written from scratch, Chief Executive Gilbert Amelio said on Wednesday.
The new operating system -- the fundamental software that controls the basic functions of the computer -- will leapfrog Microsoft Corp.'s competing family of Windows software, Amelio told investors at the American Electronics Association conference in Monterey.
"When you are the minority player in the marketplace, as we are, you need something other than market share to distinguish yourself," Amelio said.
Amelio declined to specify what the new software would look like or how it would outperform Windows. But he promised it would "completely change the way" people get their work done on computers through applications, such as word processing and spreadsheets.
Earlier this year, Apple said it would abandon the overhaul of its Macintosh operating system, an effort code-named Copland. Apple programmers will use some of the components of Copland but will practically start from scratch, Amelio said.
Amelio also told investors, as he has done recently, that increasing the struggling computer maker's revenue and market share would not be a priority until he could improve the company's operations and product lines.
The effort may take until 1998.
"I have to have a solid foundation before I can build a castle," Amelio said. Without a solid foundation, Apple would improve its financial performance for one or two quarters but slide again, he said.
Apple, whose headquarters are in Cupertino, California, reported an unexpected profit of $25 million for the last three months of fiscal 1996, down from a profit of $60 million a year ago. Many on Wall Street had expected the company to post a loss for the quarter.
Investors have given Amelio credit for moving quickly to improve product quality, cut costs and fix production snafus. Apple is likely to report good progress in the next two quarters as well, said Michael Murphy, president of the California Technology Stock Letter and an investment fund. it faces "worrisome" quarters after March, Murphy added.
"Amelio's getting closer to fixing the company's problems," he said, "but we're not going to go back in yet."
South Korea's Daewoo Electronics on Thursday defended a proposed controversial deal to buy France's Thomson Multimedia by pledging to make investments in the company.
The head of Daewoo Electronics and the founder of its parent company tried to allay French fears through interviews in two leading French newspapers, promising hefty investment and a long term commitment to the country.
The chairman of Daewoo Electronics, Bae Soon-hoon, was trying to counter criticism about a South Korean company acquiring leading-edge French digital television technology cheaply. He said his company would spend at least 10 billion french francs ($1.9 billion) on TMM.
French Finance Minister Jean Arthuis meanwhile reaffirmed that the government was set on selling defence and consumer electronics group Thomson SA to Lagardere Groupe and Daewoo even if Prime Minister Juppe wanted a public debate on the sale of the state group.
Juppe told parliament on Tuesday he would call a debate on the sale, for one symbolic franc, after an 11 billion franc ($2.2 billion) capital injection, in reaction to a public outcry and criticism from opposition parties and also from within his own coalition.
Arthuis dismissed criticism on the government's decision to sell the company by way of a private placement instead of a public sale.
"This is a company that could not be privatised through a public offer," Arthuis told reporters at a press briefing on Thursday. "How could we ask several investors to bid on a company with a negative net value."
Thomson has debts of some 14 billion francs.
Lagardere wants to merge Thomson SA's 58-percent-owned and profitable defence group Thomson-CSF with its Matra unit and sell loss-making consumer electronics group Thomson Multimedia (TMM) to Daewoo Electronics.
The state's Privatisation Commission is currently studying both the preferred bid by Lagardere/Daewoo and one by Alcatel Alsthom and is expected to give its opinion in early December.
The chairman of Daewoo Electronics said his company would spend at least 10 billion francs on TMM in an effort to still the rising criticism about the deal.
"In total, the immediate cost of acquisition and recapitalisation of Thomson Multimedia for Daewoo is some 10 billion francs. But these 10 billion are only a first stage," Bae Soon-hoon told the La Tribune Desfosses newspaper, breaking his self-imposed silence on Daewoo's bid details.
He said South Korea and France had increasingly direct links, adding that French companies had sold the TGV high-speed train and nuclear power stations to his country and were planning to sell battle planes and other weapons.
France's trade minister Yves Galland is due to travel to South Korea on Monday to promote the country's economic interests during a trip lasting until Thursday.
France hopes to sell Dassault Rafale combat planes to South Korea to monitor its northern Communist neighbour.
Kim Woo-choong, chairman and founder of the Daewoo conglomerate, told France's Liberation newspaper in Seoul that big Japanese companies would want to see the Thomson deal fail.
"Certain big international electronics companies are against ths deal because they believe that the merger would make Daewoo too competitive," Woo-choong said, adding, "These big companies are perhaps busy lobbying the French government."
Liberation said he referred to Japanese companies.
"The French government cannot come back on its decision if there is not an important reason to do so," Woo-choong said.
($1=5.102 French Franc)
While General Motors Corp. struggles to overcome labour costs of $43 an hour at its parts plants, the head of one global auto supplier is painting a Darwinian view of the future, in which an increasing number of workers earn less than $10 an hour.
Nearly one-quarter of ITT Automotive Inc.'s workers around the world will be paid a combined hourly wage and benefit rate of less than $10 by 2000, the company's top executive said this week at a conference of suppliers.
That sobering forecast spotlights a long-term problem for GM, which is now in the throes of negotiating a new three-year labour contract with the United Auto Workers union.
"They can't make a buck stamping out taillights and paying people $43 an hour," said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities Inc.
Adds Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi: "Their 43 other competitors aren't going to say 'We'll spot you a couple of years.'"
Timothy Leuliette, president and chief executive officer of ITT Automotive, said the company paid 15 percent of its 35,000 workers around the world less than $10 an hour in 1995. That was up from 10 percent of its employees at that pay level in 1990.
"Do we do that because we're mean?" Leuliette said of the falling wage rates. "No. We did that because we have to promise our customers a 3 to 4 percent price reduction."
Facing union demands for greater job security, GM must find a way for its massive Delphi Automotive Systems parts business to stay competitive in the worldwide auto supplier market.
In the current talks, Delphi has said 12 of its U.S. component facilities are underperforming and should not be subject to the job guarantees the UAW has received from other automakers.
Even if it accepts the economic terms already agreed to by Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. , GM and Delphi will pay the average U.S. parts worker a base wage of nearly $19 an hour in the first year of the contract, and more than $21 in 1999, the third year of the agreement.
About 42 percent of Delphi's workers are located in the United States, where the combined hourly wage and benefit cost of a UAW worker under the 1993 national agreement is about $43.
Delphi, with 1995 revenues of $26.4 billion, is in 167 businesses around the world. Global expansion remains a focus for the company, which this year expects 35 percent of its revenues to come from customers outside of GM's North American Operations, Delphi President J.T. Battenberg said Tuesday.
But as Leuliette's comments indicate, the global auto supplier industry is growing increasingly competitive.
The worldwide hourly wage rate for assembling a labour-intensive part such as a wire harness is between $1 and $2, he estimated. More technical parts cost $10-$12 an hour.
Leuliette said workers in Vietnam will earn $64 a month working 48 hours a week putting together wiring harnesses for ITT.
"If you are regionally competitive but not globally competitive, you will unlikely be a supplier to ITT," Leuliette told the gathering of suppliers in Detroit.
ITT Automotive, based in Auburn Hills, Mich., is the biggest unit within ITT Industries Inc., and one of the largest independent auto suppliers in the world.
The company, which has annual sales of about $5.5 billion, makes brake and chassis systems, as well as body and electrical components such as motors, actuators and wiper systems. Leuliette estimated the company's average global total wage costs at about $14 an hour.
Britain's commercial television watchdog on Thursday invited applications to run terrestrial frequencies which will multiply the number of channels available to viewers in the new digital age.
"This is a very important day for UK viewers...as many as 35 or 36 channels could be available on digital terrestrial television," said Peter Rogers, chief executive of the Independent Television Commission (ITC).
The ITC is seeking applications to operate four "multiplexes", as the blocks of frequencies are known. Each block can carry as many as six digital channels.
The BBC has already been earmarked its own multiplex, and commercial networks ITV and Channel 4 will share one.
The ITC will award the 12-year licences on critieria including speed of roll-out of the service and the appeal of programming but a cash bid will not be required. Licences are expected to be awarded next spring and broadcasting could begin by mid-1998.
Britain is leading the way in the development of digital terrestrial but some observers question whether it will succeed.
Pay television operator BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is the largest shareholder, plans to launch a digital satellite service into Britain in late 1997 -- several months ahead of the terrestrial version.
The satellite version could offer several hundred channels and BSkyB's control of key movie and sporting rights are likely to make it an attractive proposition.
The ITC's Rogers told a news conference he was confident the terrestrial option would prove attractive to investors.
"I would be surprised and disappointed if we didn't have applications for all of the multiplexes," he said.
