But Robinson said Granada planned to retain its 10.8 percent stake Granada holds in pay television operator British Sky Broadcasting. That investment is worth over one billion pounds.
The largest contribution came from the Restaurants division, which boosted profit before interest and tax by 80 percent to 217 million pounds on turnover which rose over 60 percent to 1.7 billion pounds.
The new Hotels unit contributed 168 million while Media made 163 million, up 17 percent. Profits from the high street rentals arm were marginally higher at 126 million. ($1=.5950 Pound)
British food producer Northern Foods Plc posted virtually flat profits on Wednesday, held back by the collapse of world prices for its dairy products.
"The dairy business continues to be affected by the decline of commodity markets compared with a period of exceptionally high prices last year," said chairman Sir Christopher Haskins.
Profits rose one percent before tax and exceptional items to 57.8 million pounds ($97 million) for the six months ended September 30. Northern Foods shares rose 2-1/2p to 198p.
"There is no immediate prospect of commodity prices improving in the second half. We are also very driven by the strength of sterling against other currencies," Jo Stewart, head of Northern's prepared foods division said in an interview.
At a news conference Haskins repeated his plea for Britain to join a single European currency which would remove one swing factor in its profits. "If there is one company that thinks EMU is a good idea it is us."
Prices on the world commodity markets for butter, skimmed milk and bulk cream were off some 20 percent on last year's levels. Weakening world demand for dairy products and the rise in sterling against the other major European currencies was not offset by a reduction in Northern's cost of milk.
Eden Vale Food Ingredients, which sells milk products on world commodity markets was the hardest hit of Northern's divisions. The company estimated the collapse in commodity prices cost it about 6.0 million pounds.
Its dairy business posted operating profits of 21.6 million pounds, down 27 percent, reflecting a sharp deterioration in dairy commodity prices.
Competition in supplying milk to supermarkets remained intense but the recent erosion in prices should stop soon, said Stewart. "The profitability of that sector is now such that people are losing money and we expect the price erosion to stop," he said.
Northern now supplies about 33 percent of all milk in supermarkets, having lost about two percentage points of market share in the first half. Most British consumers get their milk from supermarkets where it costs about 28p, 10p less than a pint delivered to the doorstep.
On Tuesday rival Unigate said its sales of milk to supermarkets fell 2.4 percent in the first half, while dairy profits fell 2.9 million stg to 17.6 million due to lower prices for butter and milk powders, which Unigate estimated cost it about 4.0 million in the period.
Profits from Northern's prepared foods division were up 24.2 percent at 43.1 million, driven hardest by the grocery sector which benefitted from a full six month contribution from Green Isle which sells the Goodfella pizza brand.
But consumers' concern over a link between mad-cow disease and a similar brain wasting disease in humans hit sales of convenience foods and meat pies. Northern estimated the beef crisis cost it about 3.0 million pounds in the first half.
"We have seen a significant swing in our products offered to M&amp;S (Marks and Spencer Plc). Thirty-three of our thirty-five new lines will have no beef in them," Haskins said.
He said total consumption of beef was off 20 to 30 percent since fears first surfaced over the spread of mad-cow disease.
"We have seen no material recovery in consumer demand for beef, we would be glad if it stabilised," said Haskins.
($1=.5950 Pound)
Debt-laden Eurotunnel faced fresh financial pressure on Wednesday in the wake of the fire which swept through a main tunnel leaving a trail of damage, no running services and shaken consumer confidence.
Just one month after coming back from the brink of bankruptcy with a restructuring of nine billion pounds ($15 billion) of debt, the company faced uncertainy once again as one of its two rail tunnels remained shut pending a safety review.
Analysts said the modest fall in Eurotunnel shares since Monday's fire was about right, however, and few believed there would be long-term damage to customer confidence.
Eurotunnel has warned of reduced services for weeks ahead as repair work goes ahead and eats into revenues.
And one source close to Eurotunnel told Reuters that the cost of repairs may be heavier than first thought. "The cost will be millions (of pounds) and could get into double figures, it you consider the damage to the 15 wagons and a locomotive, plus severe tunnel damage."
He added that track sections may also need replacing after buckling in the intense heat.
While the tunnel remains shut, Eurotunnel is losing revenues at the rate of one million pounds a day. It also faces the cost of compensating passengers and tranferring them by air or ferry.
A Eurotunnel spokesman said all these costs should be covered by insurance, however.
"It will have very little impact," said one analyst. "Transport disasters are always newsworthy but the bad publicity will soon fade away. Eurotunnel will be financially damaged, but you have to look at it in relation to the nine billion of debt."
The ferries have been scooping up extra business from big freight customers like TNT, which said it would be using the ferries more as a result of the tunnel fire.
Andrew Darke, analyst at Williams de Broe, said "There's clearly going to be some emotional reaction, but I expect it to be short-lived. After all passenger numbers rose after the Herald of Free Enterprise (ferry) disaster nine years ago.
"Disasters don't stop people travelling. People still go shopping in London despite IRA bombs," he said.
Eurotunnel had around 45 percent of the cross-Channel ferry market before the fire -- a share won partly by waging a cut-throat price-war with the ferries, which have since proposed linking up to battle against their tunnel rival.
Swedish ferry giant Stena Line and P&amp;O agreed to merge in October and are awaiting clearance from competition bodies.
Darke said P&amp;O's chances of clearance had been boosted by the tunnel disaster. The verdict is due later this month.
"The government wants a viable alternative to the tunnel for emergencies like this. That means the ferry business has to be economically viable. So the fire has probably improved the chances of the merger being approved."
Last month Eurotunnel agreed a debt deal with its banks, giving them 45.5 percent of the company in return for wiping out one billion pounds of debt. The deal fixed and capped interest payments and the company said it would be unable to pay a dividend for 10 years as it uses cash flow to service its debt.
Some analysts, such as UBS, remain sceptical, pointing out that the tunnel's present cash flow of 150-200 million pounds per annum over its remaining 52-year concession to operate the tunnel comes in at six billion pounds, still well short of the total remaining debt.
Eurotunnel shares on Tuesday were at 86-1/2pence, down 1-1/2, compared to the 544 pence high touched on December 31 1993. In Paris, the shares were down 20 centimes at 7.5 francs.
($1=.5950 Pound)
The world's major banks are busy jockeying for position in an emerging super-league that is set to dominate the massive and higly lucrative private banking market in the next decade, a survey showed on Wednesday.
Private banking concentrates on "high net-worth individuals" -- people whose liquid assets, their easily available cash, is a number with a lot of noughts, usually at least $500,000.
The survey, by accountancy and consulting firm Price Waterhouse, estimates the global market for these super-rich people at somewhere between $17 and $20 trillion.
Of this, a sizeable amount, probably between $4 and $6 trillion is estimated to be in Europe, both in domestic markets and offshore.
Ian Woodhouse, head of Price Waterhouse's private banking practice, said the survey sees the emergence of a private banking super-league comprising, perhaps, 25 to 30 banks.
These will have at least $75 billion under management with many in the $100 billion-plus bracket.
They will be banks like Chase/Chemical and Citicorp in the U.S.; Swiss Bank Corp, Credit Suisse, Union Bank of Switzerland, ABN AMRO and Deutsche Bank in Europe; and the HSBC group 00005.HK with its huge Asian franchise plus Midland Bank in Britain.
In comparison, one of Britain's biggest private banking operations, the Coutts Group owned by National Westminster, has around 20 billion pounds ($33.6 billion) under management, putting it in the medium-sized bracket.
Woodhouse says one of the trends to emerge from its latest survey, which received responses from 116 leading names in the industry, is that they all see the environment getting more and more competitive,
"Competitive pressures are building. Clients used to walk through the door, now you have to go out and get them," he said.
The super-rich are becoming more and more demanding and less and less loyal -- they will often use more than one bank or compare what is on offer from a number before making a choice.
They are also demanding ever increasing levels of sophistication in the products they are sold. Complicated cross-border trust structures, for example, which can earn a huge margin for the private bank concerned.
Private banks with healthy investment bank cousins are also looking to make the most of this resource.
Client managers will often work with their investment banking colleagues to think up a product tailored to a client's needs or to beat what they are being offered elsewhere.
Currently, Europe takes the biggest slice of the global private banking cake but the fastest growth is in India and the Far East and this latter region is set to take the lead soon, Woodhouse said.
The survey shows that over half the private banks expect offshore business to grow by between 11 and 15 percent annually over the next five years.
To take advantage of this, given greater client demands and competition, banks will have to manage their cost base as well as their revenue income.
The survey also sees a continuation of the recent restructuring, merging and alliance-forming, which has been going on. New players are also expected as plain retail and investment banking areas become more and more congested. ($1=.5950 Pound)
At Wednesday's closing siren the Toronto Stock Exchange rang up a 60 point gain for its key 300 Composite Index, driven by an investor buying frenzy.
The TSE 300 Composite Index added 60.55 points to end at 5966.10 points, which was its 61st record close of 1996. Canada's largest exchange also hit an new intra-day high of 5986.80 points on Wednesday, closing in on the important 6000-point level.
Toronto, which handles more than 80 percent of Canada's equities transactions, has gained 85 points in the past two sessions.
"The big stocks are doing extremely well, and at this stage it's a momentum driven market," said Wood Gundy Inc's chief strategist Subodh Kumar. "It's being driven by two things: ... lower interest rates and cash inflows for investors from the mutual fund areas."
Bond yields have dropped in Canada and the U.S. this year as central banks in both countries slashed short-term interest rates to stimulate their sluggish economies, analysts said.
Investors and mutual fund companies are searching for high yield vehicles to improve their returns. "Right now the pressures (by mutual funds) are to allocate funds," Kumar said.
ScotiaMcLeod's senior vice-president Fred Ketchen said Toronto's gains has lagged behind New York's rallies for the last year and a half. Toronto lost ground during Canada's political uncertainty in late 1995 when residents of the French-speaking province of Quebec deliberated whether to separate from Canada.
New York powered ahead during that time but Toronto is slowly closing in. "I think we're sort-of playing catchup and will continue to play catchup because we're further behind than what we should be," Ketchen said.
Today the Dow Industrial Average gained 32.42 points to close at 6430.02 points.
Toronto also has enjoyed a near-continuous rally since mid-September when the 300 index broke through the 5300-point level.
Today 132.8 million shares were traded worth C$2.1 billion (US$1.57 billion), Toronto's fifth highest trading value on record.
All of Toronto's 14 sub-indices powered ahead, except for the financial services sector. The key gold group added more than two percent of its value today, leading media, transportation, consumer product and other issues higher.
On the broader market 616 stocks advanced, beating out 370 declining issues. Another 280 issues traded unchanged.
Among the hot stocks, Edper Group Ltd. shares bucked the slipping trend in the financial services area. The conglomerate saw C$0.25 added to close at C$7.95 on 6.1 million shares.
Fertilizer firm Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan gained C$2.90 to C$96.40 in active dealings.
The battle for Canada's Altamira Management Ltd. took a surprising twist on Wednesday when U.S. investment firm T.A. Associates Inc. launched a rival C$767 million ($572 million) bid for Canada's 12th-largest mutual fund company.
Boston-based T.A. Associates said it is offering C$38 ($28) per share for Altamira, which is also the target of a C$32 ($24) a share bid from Manufacturers Life Insurance Co. Ltd. of Toronto.
The competing offer came as two major Altamira shareholders prepared to go to court to block Manulife's C$660 million ($492 million) takeover bid for Altamira. The legal action was postponed on Wednesday after the feuding parties agreed to try to negotiate a settlement.
The shareholders, who together control 41.5 percent of Altamira, have said Manufacturers Life's offer is too low and that they were negotiating with another potential bidder.
T.A. Associates, which emerged as the mystery bidder Wednesday, is one of the largest private equity investors in the United States.
"We believe that our proposed transaction serves the purposes of all of the parties, and, more importantly, is in the long-term best interests of the unitholders of the Altamira funds," Andrews McLane, T.A. Associates' manager director, said in a letter to Altamira shareholders.
He said the offer was made on behalf of private equity partnerships managed by the Boston firm and other institutional investors.
Under the terms of the offer, Manulife would have to agree to release a group of employee shareholders from a promise to tender their shares to its offer.
Manulife already owns 30.5 percent of Altamira and has the support of a group of 40 Altamira fund managers and employees.
"We do not believe that this highly tentative proposal justifies any delay in implementation of the transaction we have agreed upon," Manulife said in a statement.
The bid is fiercely opposed by Montreal-based Almiria Capital Corp., which owns another 30.5 percent slice of Altamira, and a group led by Altamira Chairman Ron Meade.
The lawsuit launched by Almiria and the management group Tuesday was scheduled to proceed Wednesday in an Ontario court. But the court action was postponed after a last-minute accord by all parties to try to negotiate a settlement.
"The parties reached an agreement to proceed as quickly as possible to a final determination of the issues and all parties intend that Altamira will continue its business in the ordinary course," a joint statement said.
Manulife spokesperson Nancy Evans said there was no connection between the agreement and the appearance of T.A. Associates' rival offer for Altamira.
Altamira manages Canada's biggest no-load mutual fund with about C$6.2 billion ($4.6 billion) in mutual fund assets.
Manulife is the country's largest insurance company with about C$50 billion ($37 billion) in assets.
Czech Unipetrol a.s. on Wednesday announced a long-awaited plan to convert shares in Kaucuk a.s. and Chemopetrol a.s. into Unipetrol shares.
In a joint statement the boards of Chemopetrol, Kaucuk and Unipetrol, the country's new petrochemical holding company, said they agreed to swap one Chemopetrol share for between 1.05 to 1.20 Unipetrol shares, and one Kaucuk share for between 1.10 to 1.25 Unipetrol shares.
The plan, to complete the complex partial privatisation of the two largest Czech petrochemical concerns, was agreed at a meeting on Tuesday of the respective boards, but an exact ratio must still be approved by general shareholders meetings.
Kaucuk and Chemopetrol shares have traded virtually level for months as investors hoped for possible arbitrage trades if either firm's shares got an advantage in the swap.
Ahead of the news on Wednesday, Kaucuk shares were fixed 11 crowns above Tuesday's close on the Prague Stock Exchange (PSE) at 1,105, while Chemopetrol finished the PSE's Wednesday trading session 12 crowns higher at 1,106.
The Unipetrol statement said the ratio range was determined by "the current results of appraising the assets and liabilities of the involved companies."
Equities analysts said that because the announced range of the conversion still allowed for overlap in the final decision and did not give a clear advantage to one company's shares, immediate arbitrage possibilities were slim.
But they said that the fact that the boards were nearing a decision on a very complicated issue should give a mild boost to shares in Kaucuk and Chemopetrol.
"I don't see any arbitrage opportunity at this moment," said Patria Finance's Miroslav Nosal. "But now that the exchange ratio is being announced, I believe it will help the shares in both companies."
Tomas Michalek, at Raiffeisen Capital and Investment Prague, agreed that the movement toward a decision would be a plus to the shares.
"What is positive is that they agreed on a ratio (range). It's important so that both companies can finally be folded into Unipetrol and more foreign capital can come in," Michalek said.
Under a complicated privatisation of the Czech petrochemical industry, Kaucuk and Chemopetrol's refining operations were merged into a subsidiary of the newly-created Unipetrol last year called Ceska Rafinerska a.s..
Unipetrol, in which the government currently holds a 100 percent stake, has a 51 percent stake in Ceska Rafinerska,
The IOC consortium -- comprising U.S. Du Pont de Nemours unit Conoco, Royal Dutch/Shell, and Italy's Agip SpA -- acquired a 49 percent stake in Rafinerska under agreement with the government last year.
The share swap would complete the transfer of the rest of Kaucuk and Chemopetrol as subsidiaries under Unipetrol, which acts as a holding company, and would dilute the state's 100 percent stake in Unipetrol.' -- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Russia is trying to make things tougher for exporters of non-ferrous scrap metals, but impending tighter regulations will not keep Russian supplies from finding Western markets, industry sources said on Wednesday.
"There was a big once-and-for-all surge in scrap exports in the early stages of the break-up of the Soviet Union, but that's now over," said copper specialist Kevin Norrish of CRU International in London.
"The domestic market is tighter than it used to be, so there is a lot less going to Western Europe."
But he could not see proposed licensing of exporters hitting sales abroad, and other sources said Russia would still find European markets more attractive than the domestic one.
Moscow wants to license the export of scrap ferrous and non-ferrous metals to help provide steady supplies to domestic metals enterprises for processing and then export.
Russian news agencies said on Wednesday a decree on licensing could be signed by the end of this month.
The Industry Ministry in September sought to limit scrap exports to two million tonnes a year, but compromised by agreeing to a plan to license exporters.
"Maybe this scrap will be processed in Russia and then exported -- but the fact is that this material costs more abroad than it does in Russia," said a senior source at Tsvetmetexport, the former state metals export agency, who declined to be named.
Other industry sources said domestic metals firms were short of funds and that barter operations -- the means by which they would buy scrap -- were increasingly unattractive.
Nearly one third of Russian copper is produced from scrap, and officials are seeking ways to ensure steady supplies.
"There's no market for people to supply scrap to domestic enterprises and for them to then export it and get paid," said Sergei Bagrov, a non-ferrous export specialist at Promstalsyryo.
"Licensing will increase export of metal through all channels."
He said enterprises had already found ways to find the raw materials they needed.
Russian scrap copper exports were 54,000 tonnes in the first half of 1996, and Interfax news agency, which reported the data in September, said this was up 70 percent on total 1995 exports.
Western traders have said scrap availability on Western markets is often spotty and even unofficial estimates on scrap non-ferrous exports are hard to come by.
But two trends appear certain.
The exodus of large amounts of scrap copper, aluminium, nickel, steel, lead and iron that took place after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union is over, and Russia's scrap metal trade is consolidating as bigger, richer domestic and foreign players move in.
In the immediate post-Soviet years much of the scrap was smuggled from military bases and trade was so brisk that Russian industry sources described the Baltics as the world's largest non-ferrous metals exporters -- even though the three countries produce virtually no metals.
The Russian press is no longer full of tales of smugglers riding the train to the Baltics with copper cable in backpacks.
But the market is still one of the wildest and least transparent in Russia and dealers said licensing may not help.
"Russia is no longer just bleeding metal," Bagrov said. "(But) I would not say the market has become civilised."
Official export statistics, most of which do not include the scrap trade, were unreliable, he added.
The "Big Four" state-controlled Czech banks need owners who could secure their growth and international competitivness, a vice-governor of the Czech National Bank (CNB), Pavel Kysilka, said on Wednesday.
"We need strong, stable, sound and efficient banks able to compete on the European market," Kysilka told a banking seminar. "Czech banks need owners who can meet that criteria."
He said the CNB had fine-tuned its concept, submitted to the government last month, for selling the state's stakes in the country's four largest banks, after requests for clarification from Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
Kysilka did not elaborate on what changes were made to the CNB's original concept.
The state holds 49 percent in Komercni Banka a.s., 45 percent in savings bank Ceska Sporitelna a.s., 66 percent in Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka a.s. (CSOB), and 31.5 percent in IPB a.s..
The parts of the original CNB plan which have already been been made public propose a quick selloff of the IPB stake, a merger of CSOB and Sporitelna with eventual privatisation of the single entity, and an incremental sale of Komercni shares.
The ultimate decision rests with the government which has yet to put forward its own plan. The CNB has said however that there is a broad consensus that the "Big Four" privatisations should go through, but the question is how.
Klaus has said he was opposed to the idea of a merger of CSOB and Sporitelna, which would create post-Communist Europe's largest bank with assets topping $20 billion
But Klaus and the Finance Ministry have agreed that the IPB stake should be sold quickly to a strategic foreign investor.
Local media have been ripe with speculation over which foreign partner is most likely to take the shares.
Japan-based Nomura, and Dutch ING Bank NV, are widely seen as front runners for the IPB stake.
The Czech private station TV Nova reported earlier this week that Dutch bank ABN Amro was also interested in buying into IPB.
On Wednesday, an ABN Amro spokesman said his bank viewed the report as "market rumour" and declined further comment.
Meanwhile, Klaus economic adviser Martin Kocourek was quoted as saying in the Czech daily Hospodarske Noviny on Wednesday that Union Bank of Switzerland  was looking to win a mandate to arrange the sale of IPB's stake.
CNB Governor Josef Tosovsky told Reuters last week however that the full cabinet had yet to discuss the central bank's plan but would do so in a few weeks time. He said only a few of the opinions from the government were known.
Kysilka told the confernce that the state-held stakes in the Big Four are now worth 50-60 billion crowns at market prices, after having negative value before the post-Communist banking reforms at the beginning of the 1990's.
-- Jan Lopatka, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
A former German secret agent and his wife were formally charged with abduction on Wednesday after their bid to smuggle a rebel kidnap victim out of Colombia backfired at the weekend.
The charges, announced by the chief prosecutor's office, brought another twist to a brewing scandal that has set the Colombian government at odds with German diplomats and businessmen over clandestine payments to kidnappers.
Police and Colombian officials accuse Werner Mauss, 56, of being an international member of the country's National Liberation Army (ELN) guerrilla force, or a mercenary negotiating the release of abducted foreigners in return for a cut of the ransom.
In a statement issued in Bonn on Wednesday, German government official Peter Hausmann said the government was "fully informed" of the former state security agent's mission and welcomed such "unconventional methods to rescue Germans from life and death situations."
Mauss and Silvia Schroder, 36, were seized at Rionegro airport near Medellin early on Sunday as they tried to bundle a third German, Brigitte Schoene, the wife of a former BASF Chemicals executive, aboard a private charter plane bound for Venezuela. Schoene was kidnapped in mid-August by the ELN, which had demanded $6 million for her release.
In its press release, the chief prosecutor's office referred to Mauss and his wife as Juergen and Isabel Seidel -- one of their many aliases. The couple were remanded in custody.
An executive secretary of Siemens-Colombia said on Wednesday she had hired the plane that Mauss was to use for his getaway on the orders of a top industrialist formerly based in Bogota.
Security experts say Colombia -- home to Latin America's longest-running guerrilla war -- is swarming with foreign mercenaries carrying out shadowy undercover missions as kidnappings reportedly run at almost one every 2-1/2 hours.
"Many multinationals are hiring so-called security advisers for kidnap, terrorist and extortion situations but these are simply mercenaries and adventurers willing to make pacts with kidnappers and guerrillas," said private security consultant Col. Luis Enrique La Rotta.
Parliamentarian Guillermo Martinez, a retired air force officer, told Reuters he was sure dozens of foreign mercenaries like Mauss had poured into Colombia to carry out hostage rescue missions.
"Regardless of whether the Colombian authorities can or cannot control the (kidnap) situation it is totally unacceptable for foreign companies to fly in mercenaries to do this type of work," he said.
American Airlines is planning to place a long-awaited order for about $6 billion worth of Boeing Co. airplanes, according to reports published Wednesday.
Airline Chairman Robert Crandall was scheduled to make a "major company announcement" at a news conference Thursday.
Officials of Boeing and American declined to comment on the order, reported in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times, although an airline spokesman confirmed that directors of its parent company, AMR Corp., were meeting.
According to the reports, American will announce an order for more than 100 new Boeing jets, including 12 wide-body 777s and 75 narrow-body 737s.
Although American officials have said privately they have chosen Boeing for their fleet modernization program, the exact size of the initial order has not been revealed.
The orders are expected to be contingent on ratification by pilots of a new six-year contract, which could be put to a vote next month. The board of the pilots union was voting Wednesday on a tentative labor pact reached in September.
Industry analysts saw the order as a signal American could order hundreds of Boeing jets over the next two decades as it updates and expands its fleet, now a mix of planes built by Boeing, McDonnell Douglas Corp., Airbus Industrie and Fokker NV.
"I think basically this is a commitment to the Boeing family," analyst Bill Whitlow of Pacific Crest Securities said.
"If you look at their fleet, they (American) have kind of a hodgepodge of things," he said. "I think you can make the case that most of the airplanes they will be buying in the future will be these Boeing models."
American currently does not operate the 737, which seats from 108 to 189 passengers and initially will be used to replace the 75 older 727 jets used by the airline.
But analysts said that over the next decade American likely will buy more 737s to replace its fleet of 260 aging McDonnell Douglas MD-80 jets.
American already has announced plans to sell most of its wide-body MD-11 jets to Federal Express Corp. for use as cargo jets, and analysts said Boeing's 777 would be a likely replacement choice suitable for the carrier's potential expansion in the Far East.
Analyst Paul Nisbet of JSA Research said American, the nation's No. 1 airline by revenue, appears to be turning over "the whole fleet to Boeing aircraft."
"It's a huge fleet," he said. "Over the next decade there's going to be a lot more than $6 billion in planes delivered."
For beleaguered McDonnell Douglas Corp., the decision would be yet another blow for a company that has acknowledged it will be only a niche player in the commercial aircraft market and last week was knocked out of contention for the Pentagon's biggest weapons program of the early 21st century, a jet fighter.
Analysts said they still expect a big fleet-renewal order from No. 3 carrier Delta Air Lines Inc., which could go at least partly to McDonnell Douglas.
"Somewhere along the line this is going to bubble over in McDonell Douglas' favor," Nisbet said.
Other major U.S. carriers already have announced their intentions to buy new airplanes now that the industry has returned to financial health after a long downturn.
Earlier this month, USAir Group Inc. chose Europe's Airbus Industrie to supply it with narrow-body jets in an order that could be worth $18 billion over the next 13 years. The carrier is negotiating with Boeing and Airbus for new wide-body jets.
Boeing stock rose $2.375 to $96.375 Wednesday and AMR stock was off 62.5 cents at $91, both on the New York Stock Exchange.
At this year's Comdex computer trade show, the most sought-after people are not Microsoft Corp.'s Bill Gates or Intel Corp.'s Andy Grove, but corporate computer buyers.
Personal computer makers and software vendors are relying heavily on their corporate customers this year to make up for disappointing sales to consumers, executives at the trade show said this week.
While many consumers have been putting off their computer shopping until early 1997 -- when new gadgets come out -- corporate customers are finally dumping their older PCs and buying lots of machines that can run the latest business software from Microsoft.
"Certainly we see a tremendously strong business environment as a major upgrade cycle is now occurring," said Michael Winkler, senior vice president at Compaq Computer Corp. "We think the fourth quarter will be excellent."
Winkler and other PC executives said the recent release of Microsoft's Windows NT operating system and Office 97 package of business programs was fueling corporate sales. These programs work best with the computing horsepower of machines based on Intel's top-of-the-line Pentium computer chip.
In large part because of strong corporate sales, domestic PC shipments in the fourth quarter were expected to rise 20 percent to 8 million units, according to International Data Corp., a market researcher.
"The bottom line here is that the outlook for '97 for our business is very strong," said Jim McDonnell, a group marketing manager of PCs at Hewlett-Packard Co..
Based on executives' bullish comments at Comdex this week, stocks of most PC makers have gained in recent days.
Compaq rose $1.375 to $81.875 and International Business Machines Corp. jumped $2.50 to $156.25, both on the New York Stock Exchange, while Intel added $1.75 to $122.50 and Sun Microsystems Inc. gained $2.50 to $59.50, both on Nasdaq.
Still, the fourth quarter has been disappointing to some PC makers, especially those that concentrate heavily on consumer sales.
Last year this time, the release of Microsoft's Windows 95, software that makes PCs easier to use, drew lots of people to computer stores to buy their first PCs. The industry has no such attraction this year.
In fact, analysts said, consumers were putting off computer shopping this Christmas season as the industry prepares new machines based on Intel's upcoming MMX technology. MMX-based machines, slated to be released in early 1997, will feature better video, sound and 3-D graphics.
In late October, computer stocks slid as CompUSA Inc. and other computer retailers reported softening sales heading into the crucial Christmas season.
"There's no question that the quarter started out slow, but we're hopeful that things are getting better," said Mal Ransom, senior vice president of marketing at closely held Packard Bell NEC Inc., the second-biggest PC maker in the United States behind Compaq.
Consumer sales appear to be improving as it gets closer to Christmas, while prices of computer components remain low, Ransom said. "It looks like we're going to get a reasonable quarter."
The United States would consider some form of peaceful nuclear cooperation with China even before a previously signed accord is fully implemented, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher said on Wednesday.
"As we move forward on nuclear non-proliferation, the U.S. is prepared to consider, as consistent with U.S. laws, further steps in the area of peaceful nuclear cooperation even in advance of our full implementation of the 1985 agreement," Christopher told a news conference in Beijing.
Christopher did not specify what types of cooperation might go ahead before implementation of the agreement or give any timetable.
"If they (the Chinese) are making progress towards putting the 1985 agreement into effect, we are prepared to consider other things," Christopher said.
Christopher also said the two sides had agreed to establish a regular dialogue on arms control and non-proliferation issues.
"I made clear our strong concern about (China's) nuclear cooperation with Iran," Christopher said.
China pledged in May not to provide assistance to any unsafeguarded nuclear facilities.
The United States has held up the full implementation of the 1985 agreement on peaceful nuclear cooperation because of concerns over Beijing's nuclear sales, although the two sides have recently begun talks aimed at allowing the accord to proceed.
Before the 1985 agreement can be implemented, the U.S. president has to certify to Congress that China is not transferring nuclear technology to countries that have nuclear facilities without safeguards.
China is eager to buy billions of dollars worth of nuclear power reactors from U.S. firms.
Christopher arrived on Tuesday for a three-day visit that included meetings with Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Premier Li Peng.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai later told reporters the Sino-U.S. agreement on peaceful use of nuclear technology was signed 11 years ago.
"We believe it is high time to put this agreement in practice," Cui told reporters.
He said if the U.S. moved ahead with providing nuclear technology to China, U.S. companies would benefit.
"The China market is very big," Cui said.
Asked to comment on the agreement on proliferation, Cui said: "All I can say is the two sides will meet every year and hold a dialogue... to discuss comprehensive issues about global security and non-proliferation."
As U.S. President Bill Clinton jumped into Asian foreign policy issues with a new enthusiasm on Wednesday, security experts meeting in Hong Kong called on all countries involved to ensure no conflict flared up over Taiwan.
Experts said U.S. policy on China and Asia was maturing, and they called for the status quo in Taiwan to continue in the interests of wider Asia-Pacific security and prosperity.
"Next to Korea, the Taiwan Strait is the second major potential security flashpoint in the region," David Shambaugh of the George Washington University in the United States said.
"This is not a back-burner issue. It can quickly ignite and get on to the front burner... It is an issue we have to keep our eye on," he said, adding that any flareup over Taiwan would severely damage the region's bustling commerce.
Shambaugh was talking at a discussion panel of security experts at the World Economic Forum's Europe/East Asia meeting.
He said Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui and other Taiwan leaders should restrain themselves and that the time would be riper for dialogue with Beijing after China holds a watershed Communist Party congress next year.
At the same time, China should renounce the use of force and coercive diplomacy towards Taiwan and respect Taiwan's autonomy within a "one-China" formula. China should not expect Taipei "to negotiate with a gun to its head", Shambaugh said.
China-Taiwan relations have been tense over the past two years as pro-independence sentiment grew in Taiwan and Beijing launched a drive for the reintegration of its lost territories.
Taiwan, historically part of China, has been separated from the mainland for most of the past century, first by 50 years of Japanese occupation, then when China's nationalist government lost a civil war to the communists in 1949 and fled to Taipei.
China regards Taiwan as a rebel province and has threatened to use force if the island seeks formal independence.
In March this year, as Taiwan went to the polls, a major crisis blew up when China launched missile tests and briefly blockaded Taiwan to deter Taipei from declaring independence.
"We should maintain the status quo," Yuan Ming, a strategic studies expert from Beijing University, said on Wednesday.
The view was echoed by Masashi Nishihara from Japan's National Defence Academy, who said Taiwan should not provoke China by seeking a United Nations seat.
Another expert, Gerald Segal of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, said the United States successfully defended the strategic balance and at the same time managed to stop short of a conflict when it sent two aircraft carriers into seas near Taiwan as a warning to China during the March crisis.
But he warned that the arms race in the region, where many governments were newly democratic but politically very fragile, threatened stability.
Visiting Australia on Wednesday, Clinton said the United States was more determined than ever to be involved in Asia, to help provide stability, that China should not be isolated and that engaging Beijing was a "big priority".
At the same time Secretary of State Warren Christopher was in Beijing shoring up relations. Clinton is to meet Chinese President Jiang Zemin at next week's summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in the Philippines.
Shambaugh said the flurry of high-level contacts now and in the near future between Beijing and Washington was important for building the Sino-U.S. relationship.
But he said Chinese officials would remain suspicious that the United States had a "subversion agenda" for China and that the policy of engagement was actually an attempt at containment.
The stock of IBM, years ago dubbed "I've Been Mugged," is back in style and hitting historic highs on Wall Street, where investors say shares of the world's biggest computer company can continue rising.
The rally in International Business Machines Corp. stock started on Friday when an influential analyst, Daniel Mandresh of Merrill Lynch, raised his 12-month price target on IBM to $195 from about $155.
Since Friday, IBM's shares have soared more than 20 percent and touched $159 on Wednesday, a level last seen before the 1987 stock market crash. Investors called the stock a relative safe haven among technology shares. IBM hit an all-time high of $175 in August 1987.
The stock ended at $152.75 Wednesday, off $1.375, on some mild profit-taking, but the shares are still up about 68 percent since July 15, when they stood at $91.
When IBM was losing money and restructuring, and after its first dividend cuts in 1993, the stock sank as low as $43 and gained the moniker of "I've Been Mugged" on Wall Street.
Now, with a steady stream of profits and many bullish opinions by analysts, some analysts are again viewing the stock as a bellwether that is also helping fuel the rally in the Dow Jones industrial average.
One question now hounding investors is whether it would be wise to jump in and buy Big Blue, or wait for the stock to decline.
Market technicians and some analysts who follow IBM say that the once-beleaguered stock still has room to climb.
Some analysts still have buy ratings on IBM, even at these levels, because its value remains low relative to many other technology stocks, a point IBM officials have tried to bring home to investors in recent months.
Apparently, many on Wall Street are hearing the message, and some are encouraged by IBM's progress and double-digit revenue growth in areas such as services.
"Investors are looking for more defensive plays with companies with solid earnings outlooks," said Bill Milton, an analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman. "It still sells at a relatively low valuation, relative to the technology sector."
Technology stocks typically trade at a price about 20 times their estimated earnings. But even with its latest surge, IBM is still trading at a only about 14 times its current estimates.
Technicians, who use charts, graphs and computer analysis without considering company fundamentals, said that IBM's shares have recently broken out of two previous resistance levels, one at $128 and another at $148, and are now poised for further gains.
"At these levels there really isn't much resistance, this can continue to work higher," said Susan Stern, a senior technical analyst at Smith Barney. Resistance refers to a price ceiling where a stock price consolidates.
"I think the primary trend remains up," said Gregory Nie, a technical analyst at EVEREN Securities Inc. "The stock is getting a little extended on a short-term basis."
CompuServe Corp is expected to announce on Thursday that it is dissolving its Wow! consumer online service as it gives up on the consumer market and refocuses on the corporate market, industry sources said.
A spokesman for the Columbus, Ohio based company declined to comment, saying he could not comment in advance of a "strategic announcement" CompuServe plans early Thursday.
The struggling online services company has been under more pressure in recent months from America Online Inc, the Microsoft Corp Network and Internet access providers.
The company plans to halt its marketing aimed at consumers and it will expand its emphasis on corporate customers in the U.S. and Europe. CompuServe will try to convert its 100,000 Wow! users to its core CompuServe Information Service and it will not abandon its current consumer users, sources said.
But it will not make the consumer business a key focus, as it cedes to the dominant America Online, which is growing its subscriber base again, after a hiccup in growth this summer.
Wall Street analysts said that such a move could entail some layoffs at CompuServe, and possibly a restructuring charge to cover Wow! employees who cannot be reassigned.  
CompuServe's move comes on the heels of some recent aggressive actions by AOL to stay on top with its plans to shut down its GNN direct Internet access and its announcement to cut its workforce by 300 employees and take a $75 million charge in its second fiscal quarter.
AOL also announced flat-rate pricing of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, bowing to the competition from Internet access providers and their flat monthly rates of $19.95.
CompuServe's Wow! service is a flat-rate service, for $17.95 a month, but it could not be learned if CompuServe will change the pricing of its core CIS service as it dissolves Wow.  
CompuServe hopes to move all its Wow! subscribers over to its core service by the end of January.
"They have a separate productions staff, separate marketing, etc," said Abhishek Gami, an analyst at Nesbitt Burns Securities, adding however that CompuServe has tried to keep Wow! extremely lean and some employees will likely be moved to the main service or to SPRYNET, its Internet service.
Since CompuServe went public in April, its prospects have dimmed, with its stock tumbling from its initial offering price of $30 a share. Its shares now trade at around $11-5/8, since it has announced losses and a drop in subscribers.  
"They have had a whole lot of problems since they went public," said one industry source. "They need to reposition the company."
CompuServe is the second largest online service after America Online.
Monsanto Co, which produces genetically altered soybeans, on Wednesday defended the scientific tests that back its safety claims for the crop.
"We did something like 1,800 tests to evaluate those soybeans," said Karen Marshall, manager of public affairs for Monsanto. "These soybeans are absolutely safe."
The environmental group Greenpeace has continued to protest the genetically altered soybeans and has criticized  Monsanto for allegedly not testing the biotech crop for exposure to the herbicide Roundup.  
Monsanto's genetically altered Roundup Ready soybeans are resistant to the Roundup herbicide, allowing farmers to spray Roundup on the fields to kill weeds without harming the crop.
But use of Roundup to kill weeds could result in residue on the harvested soybeans.
Marshall of Monsanto, however, said Roundup residue is not an issue since tolerance levels for the herbicide had been previously established and did not need to be established by testing.
Therefore, Monsanto's testing of biotech crop focused on genetic alteration.  
"What we figured would be the new piece of information was the one protein that we added to the plant, itself," she said.
Marshall said Roundup Ready soybeans have been reviewed and approved by regulatory bodies in Argentina, Mexico, Canada, Japan, the European Union and United States.
She added that Roundup Ready soybeans have also received food safety approvals in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and most recently Denmark, and are under consideration in Switzerland.
Merrill Lynch analyst Douglas Groh said that while concerns about the Roundup Ready soybeans must be addressed, he does not expect any impediments to market the crops.
"In some form or fashion, Monsanto will be able to commercialize the work that they've done," said Groh, who focuses on agribusiness and biotech companies.
He added that residue on the soybean crop should not be an issue since Roundup breaks down over time to "environmentally benign" substances that do not pose a threat.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787
Air France on Wednesday ordered 10 Boeing jetliners and 10 Airbus jets, and the government-owned airline reported dramatically improved profits of 802 million francs ($158 million) in the first half.
The profit estimate for the six months ending Sept. 30, disclosed in an Air France board statement, compared with a loss of 335 million francs ($66 million) a year ago.
The improved results and Air France's aim to break even in 1996/97 was underlined by the orders for 10 Boeing 777 twinjets and options for 10 more. The airline also ordered five Airbus A340s, confirmed five orders made in June and took options for an additional five.
Air France Chairman Christian Blanc won vital support from French Prime Minister Alain Juppe to buy from Seattle-based Boeing instead of ordering solely from its archrival Airbus Industrie, the European consortium based in southwest France.
At list prices, which are rarely paid, the orders and options for the Boeing 777-200 version ordered could be worth around $2.7 billion. Airbus would stand to gain $1.75 billion.
List prices for the B777-200 range between $128 million and $146 million, while the Airbus A340-300 costs $110 million to $120 million.
"In the reorganization of its fleet, Air France is obliged to buy Boeing," Transport Minister Bernard Pons told parliament.
"It is obliged to meet commitments made in 1989 unless it accepts losing deposits and taking legal action, which risks being much more expensive than making this decision."
The French airline had outstanding Boeing orders worth $994 million and $2 billion in options, Pons said, adding that the airline had skilfully negotiated the latest order to respect the initial commitment.
The three government representatives on the Air France board approved the Boeing 777 purchase "not because they are the best or the most profitable but because they best meet the company's needs," Pons said.
Air France had also accepted to be a launch customer for the planned A340-600, a "stretched" version of the A340, he said.
Airbus hopes to build the 375-seater to smash Boeing's monopoly in the large-capacity aircraft segment.
Air France said that, due to financial problems, it froze at the end of 1994 all aircraft orders, including the 1989 Boeing order, and opened talks with the two plane makers.
Air France has since reorganized its fleet, restructured its network around a centralized "hub" at Paris Charles De Gaulle airport and optimised aircraft use. It has over the past two years increased the number of flying hours by 14 percent.
Pons welcomed Air France's financial results, saying: "The results are very encouraging."
Several thousand employees of French consumer electronics company Thomson Multimedia held protest marches in Paris and other towns on Wednesday against the planned sale of the group to South Korea's Daewoo.
Workers of the state-owned company came in busloads to Paris to demonstrate in front of the group's headquarters in the centre of the capital before heading to the parliament buildings. There were also protest marches in Rennes, Bordeaux, Nice and Grenoble.
Thomson staff are angry that they have not been involved in the decision and say they do not understand the economic logic behind it.
"The sale of Thomson Multimedia to the Korean group Daewoo is unacceptable," said a protesting Thomson worker in Rennes, the capital of the western Britanny region where police said 1,200 people marched.
"This company is running fine and makes top quality products, we do not want to make low quality products," he added.
In Grenoble in the east about a thousand people marched, some shouting "Daewoo, mechant loup" (Daewoo, big bad wolf).
Industry Minister Franck Borotra told parliament during question time that privatisation was the only way to secure the future of Thomson Multimedia.
"This company is in a situation of a serious financial disaster," he said about the loss-making and indebted French state-owned group.
Workers, however, maintain the company is fundamentally profitable.
"Thomson is sold for one franc and the buyers will hit a 20 billion franc jackpot," said a slogan carried in the Rennes march.
The French government said last month it planned the sell the Thomson SA group to Lagardere Groupe for one franc after an 11 billion franc ($2.17 billion) capital injection.
Lagardere will keep Thomson SA's 58 percent stake in defence electronics group Thomson-CSF and sell television set and video recorder maker Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo Electronics, also for one franc.
France's Privatisation Commission and the European Commission still have to approve the deal.
"What we want is a halt to the privatisation procedure and the start of serious discussions about the future of the electronics industry in this country," a labour union spokesman told France 2 television.
The Communist-led CGT wants to see a public sale of the Thomson Multimedia company on the market, with Lagardere taking a big stake.
Soon-hoon Bae, chairman of Daewoo Electronics, told a French parliamentary commission on Tuesday that the South Korean group could float part of Thomson Multimedia on the share market when it had returned to profit.
He said Daewoo planned to invest 13 billion francs in Thomson Multimedia, of which five billion would be invested in the next five years in France.
State-owned Air France on Wednesday reported dramatically improved earnings of 802 million francs ($158 million) in the first half and placed a bumper order for 20 Boeing and Airbus aircraft, plus options.
The profit estimate for the six months to September 30, which emerged in an Air France board statement, compared with a loss of 335 million francs a year ago.
The improved results and Air France's aim to break even in 1996/97 was underlined with orders for 10 Boeing 777  twinjets, and options for 10 more. The airline also ordered five Airbus A340s, confirmed five orders made in June and options for a further five.
Air France chairman Christian Blanc won vital support from Prime Minister Alain Juppe to buy from Seattle-based Boeing instead of ordering solely from its archrival Airbus Industrie, the European consortium based in southwest France.
At catalogue prices, which are rarely paid, the orders and options for the Boeing 777-200 version ordered could be worth around $2.7 billion. Airbus would stand to gain $1.75 billion.
List prices for the B777-200 range between $128 and $146 million, while the Airbus A340-300 costs $110 to $120 million.
"In the reorganisation of its fleet, Air France is obliged to buy Boeing," Transport Minister Bernard Pons told parliament.
"It is obliged to meet commitments made in 1989, unless it accepts losing deposits and taking legal action which risks being much more expensive than taking this decision."
The French airline had orders outstanding with Boeing worth $994 million and $2 billion of options, Pons said, adding that the airline had skillfully negotiated the latest order to respect the initial undertaking.
The three state representatives on the Air France board approved the Boeing 777 purchase "not because they are the best or the most profitable but because they best meet the company's needs," Pons said.
Air France had also accepted to be a launch customer for the planned A340-600, a "stretched" version of the A340, he said.
Airbus hopes to build the 375-seater to smash Boeing's monopoly at the large capacity aircraft segment.
Air France said that due to financial problems, it froze at the end of 1994 all aircraft orders, including the 1989 Boeing order, and opened talks with the two plane-makers.
Air France has since rationalised its fleet, restructured its network around a centralised "hub" at Paris Charles De Gaulle airport and optimised aircraft use. It has over the past two years increased the number of flying hours by 14 percent.
Pons welcomed Air France's financial results, saying: "The results are very encouraging."
The company said it made its profit despite a rise in spending on fuel of nearly 500 million francs for the period.
Turnover was up nearly five percent to 21.3 billion francs due to a 14.8 percent increase in passenger traffic and a 6.7 percent rise in freight.
Operating profit rose nearly 30 percent to 1.1 billion francs, compared with 849 million in the year-earlier period. The pretax, pre-exceptional result tripled to 660 million francs.
Air France was ahead by "a little more than 250 million francs of its budget" at the six months stage, the company said. The first half is traditionally better for seasonal reasons and should not be used to extrapolate for the full year, it added.
Debt stood at 12.9 billion francs at September 30, versus 19.2 billion at March 31, 1996. The repayment of 6.3 billion francs significantly exceeded the last tranche of its state recapitalisation paid in September.
The Boeing order consists of the heavier "Increased Gross Weight" version of the basic 777-200, equipped with GE90 engines built by General Electric and France's Snecma. The B777-200 will seat 288 passengers in three-classes.
The Airbus order is for the A340-200E version equipped with CFM56-5C4 engines. ($1=5.075 French Franc)
American Airlines is planning to place a long-awaited order for about $6 billion worth of Boeing Co. airplanes, according to reports published Wednesday.
Airline Chairman Robert Crandall was scheduled to make a "major company announcement" at a news conference Thursday.
Officials of Boeing and American declined to comment on the order, reported in the Wall Street Journal and New York Times, although an airline spokesman confirmed that directors of its parent company, AMR Corp., were meeting.
According to the reports, American will announce an order for more than 100 new Boeing jets, including 12 wide-body 777s and 75 narrow-body 737s.
Although American officials have said privately they have chosen Boeing for their fleet modernisation programme, the exact size of the initial order has not been revealed.
The orders are expected to be contingent on ratification by pilots of a new six-year contract, which could be put to a vote next month. The board of the pilots union was voting Wednesday on a tentative labour pact reached in September.
Industry analysts saw the order as a signal American could order hundreds of Boeing jets over the next two decades as it updates and expands its fleet, now a mix of planes built by Boeing, McDonnell Douglas Corp., Airbus Industrie and Fokker NV.
"I think basically this is a commitment to the Boeing family," analyst Bill Whitlow of Pacific Crest Securities said.
"If you look at their fleet, they (American) have kind of a hodgepodge of things," he said. "I think you can make the case that most of the airplanes they will be buying in the future will be these Boeing models."
American currently does not operate the 737, which seats from 108 to 189 passengers and initially will be used to replace the 75 older 727 jets used by the airline.
But analysts said that over the next decade American likely will buy more 737s to replace its fleet of 260 ageing McDonnell Douglas MD-80 jets.
American already has announced plans to sell most of its wide-body MD-11 jets to Federal Express Corp. for use as cargo jets, and analysts said Boeing's 777 would be a likely replacement choice suitable for the carrier's potential expansion in the Far East.
Analyst Paul Nisbet of JSA Research said American, the nation's No. 1 airline by revenue, appears to be turning over "the whole fleet to Boeing aircraft."
"It's a huge fleet," he said. "Over the next decade there's going to be a lot more than $6 billion in planes delivered."
For beleaguered McDonnell Douglas Corp., the decision would be yet another blow for a company that has acknowledged it will be only a niche player in the commercial aircraft market and last week was knocked out of contention for the Pentagon's biggest weapons programme of the early 21st century, a jet fighter.
Analysts said they still expect a big fleet-renewal order from No. 3 carrier Delta Air Lines Inc., which could go at least partly to McDonnell Douglas.
"Somewhere along the line this is going to bubble over in McDonell Douglas' favour," Nisbet said.
Other major U.S. carriers already have announced their intentions to buy new airplanes now that the industry has returned to financial health after a long downturn.
Earlier this month, USAir Group Inc. chose Europe's Airbus Industrie to supply it with narrow-body jets in an order that could be worth $18 billion over the next 13 years. The carrier is negotiating with Boeing and Airbus for new wide-body jets.
Boeing stock rose $2.375 to $96.375 Wednesday and AMR stock was off 62.5 cents at $91, both on the New York Stock Exchange.
At this year's Comdex computer trade show, the most sought-after people are not Microsoft Corp.'s Bill Gates or Intel Corp.'s Andy Grove, but corporate computer buyers.
Personal computer makers and software vendors are relying heavily on their corporate customers this year to make up for disappointing sales to consumers, executives at the trade show said this week.
While many consumers have been putting off their computer shopping until early 1997 -- when new gadgets come out -- corporate customers are finally dumping their older PCs and buying lots of machines that can run the latest business software from Microsoft.
"Certainly we see a tremendously strong business environment as a major upgrade cycle is now occurring," said Michael Winkler, senior vice president at Compaq Computer Corp.. "We think the fourth quarter will be excellent."
Winkler and other PC executives said the recent release of Microsoft's Windows NT operating system and Office 97 package of business programmes was fuelling corporate sales. These programmes work best with the computing horsepower of machines based on Intel's top-of-the-line Pentium computer chip.
In large part because of strong corporate sales, domestic PC shipments in the fourth quarter were expected to rise 20 percent to 8 million units, according to International Data Corp., a market researcher.
"The bottom line here is that the outlook for '97 for our business is very strong," said Jim McDonnell, a group marketing manager of PCs at Hewlett-Packard Co..
Based on executives' bullish comments at Comdex this week, stocks of most PC makers have gained in recent days.
Compaq rose $1.375 to $81.875 and International Business Machines Corp. jumped $2.50 to $156.25, both on the New York Stock Exchange, while Intel added $1.75 to $122.50 and Sun Microsystems Inc. gained $2.50 to $59.50, both on Nasdaq.
Still, the fourth quarter has been disappointing to some PC makers, especially those that concentrate heavily on consumer sales.
Last year this time, the release of Microsoft's Windows 95, software that makes PCs easier to use, drew lots of people to computer stores to buy their first PCs. The industry has no such attraction this year.
In fact, analysts said, consumers were putting off computer shopping this Christmas season as the industry prepares new machines based on Intel's upcoming MMX technology. MMX-based machines, slated to be released in early 1997, will feature better video, sound and 3-D graphics.
In late October, computer stocks slid as CompUSA Inc. and other computer retailers reported softening sales heading into the crucial Christmas season.
"There's no question that the quarter started out slow, but we're hopeful that things are getting better," said Mal Ransom, senior vice president of marketing at closely held Packard Bell NEC Inc., the second-biggest PC maker in the United States behind Compaq.
Consumer sales appear to be improving as it gets closer to Christmas, while prices of computer components remain low, Ransom said. "It looks like we're going to get a reasonable quarter."
Microcom Inc and Rockwell Semiconductor Systems said Wednesday they plan to beef up their technology partnership to speed development of higher speed 56-kilobit modems for central switch equipment.
The 56 kilobit modems would allow computer users to connect to the Internet at speeds nearly double the rate of current 28.8 kilobit modems now available using standard phone lines.
The deal builds on a decade-old product development partnership between Microcom and Rockwell. Rockwell Semiconductor is a unit of Rockwell International Corp.  
New Microcom central site switch equipment would give the receiving end -- phone carriers, Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and corporate central offices -- the capacity to handle incoming calls from computers with 56 kilobit modems.
"It increases the market scope of Rockwell's 56k offering," said Prudential analyst Jim Thayer of Rockwell's 56 kilobit modem plans. He maintains a buy rating on Microcom.
However, Hambrecht &amp; Quist analyst Rakesh Sood said the Microcom/Rockwell pact was a defensive response to a U.S. Robotics Inc initiative already well under way by the company to offer its own set of 56 kilobit modem products.  
In the Rockwell/Microcom pact, Rockwell will contribute its K56Plus modem chipset to the venture, while Microcom will offer its Modemware technology, a software interface that other equipment providers license to build their own modems.
To speed 56k development, Rockwell said it is opening an East Coast development center with 15 to 20 Rockwell engineers working alongside Microcom staff. The center will initially be at Microcom's headquarters in Norwood, Massachusetts. Rockwell is based in Seal Beach, Calif.  
As part of the partnership, Rockwell and Microcom are working together to drive standards development of a new high speed modem standard that would incorporate Microcom's MNP (Microcom Networking Protocol) standard.
Modems based on the Rockwell chip design would not be compatible with those from Robotics until an industry-wide standard for compatability can be hammered out, which no industry player seriously expects before 1998.  
In the intervening period, modems based on Rockwell's standard will work only with central office switches from partners such as Microcom, while Robotics modems will work only with equipment offered by backers of its standard.
U.S. Robotics has licensed its X2 56 kilobit technology to chipmakers Texas Instruments Inc and Cirrus Logic Inc and to modem supplier Cardinal Technologies Inc CRTK.O.
Robotics plans to introduce 56 kilobit modems in January and remote access equipment in February, a spokeswoman said.
Rockwell's own 56 kilobit plans have been slower getting off the ground, but the company has said it too plans to introduce new 56k modems in the first quarter of 1997.  
Nonetheless, Rockwell's technology has been embraced by Ascend Communications Inc and consumer modem makers Boca Research Inc, Hayes Microcomputer Inc and Zoom Telephonics Inc, who are unhappy doing business with rival U.S. Robotics Inc, the dominant consumer modem supplier.
Microcom said it plans to incorporate the Rockwell K56Plus technology into central site modem systems that it sells both directly and indirectly, through partnerships with Cisco Systems Inc, Bay Networks Inc, Digital Equipment Corp and Gandalf Technologies INc.  
Microcom officials said they expect Rockwell/Microcom modems to be adopted by many network equipment makers who fear relying on Robotics, which is seen as a competitive threat.
Microcom said products based the Rockwell design will be available for test and evaluation early in 1997 and that finished products will ship in central site and remote modem equipment by late in the first quarter of 1997.
Thayer argued the schism over standards should buy time for the Rockwell camp and may allow it to gain market share from Robotics due to Rockwell's wider base of support.
"They should have a fairly high share of 56 kilobit market over time," Thayer said of the Rockwell/Microcom partnership.
However, Sood argues the market for 56 kilobit modems will come largely from home computer users not office workers, who have access to other high-speed communications alternatives.
This plays to U.S. Robotics' strength as an equipment supplier to a majority of the top 10 Internet access providers aimed at consumers, like America Online Inc and Netcom On-line Communications Inc, Sood said.
-- New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Entergy Corp on Wednesday called off talks with British regional electricity company (Rec) London Electric but the U.S. firm said it was still keeing an eye on the electricity sector, which has seen a recent flurry of bids and rumours.
In a statement responding to newspaper reports it planned a 1.2 billion pound ($2.02 billion) takeover of London Electric, Entergy said exploratory discussions had taken place but had been discontinued.
"We continue to evaluate attractive markets and investment opportunities worldwide and consider the UK electricity market to be in that category," Entergy spokesman Patrick Sweeney said.
Shares in London, which had surged higher on the bid reports, slipped to a low of 630 pence but later climbed back to 661-1/2 pence, down just 3-1/2 pence.
"What (Entergy is) saying is that the talks with London Electricity have ended. That doesn't mean they've ruled out a hostile bid for London Electricity, Yorkshire, or another," said Yamaichi analyst Nigel Hawkins.
Recent interest has seen two of the five remaining Recs attract U.S. predators -- Northern Electric is fighting CalEnergy's $1.225 billion bid and East Midlands has agreed to a $2.15 billion offer by Dominion Resources.
Seven of the original 12 cash-rich Recs have already been sold, three of them to U.S. companies which are attracted by the looser regulatory system in the UK.
Earlier this week, Entergy denied a report in the Sunday Telegraph newspaper that it was interested in bidding for Yorkshire Electricity, considered the most attractive of the remaining Recs.
Southern Electric, which has so far kept out of this round of bid speculation, avoided takeover by British generator National Power when the government blocked the bid on competition grounds in April.
The company then went on to make an offer itself for its cousin Southern Water but was pipped by power company Scottish Power with a 1.68 billion pound bid.
The latest two bids for Recs are clouded by concerns that political pressures might prompt a block, however, as the ruling Conservatives struggle to catch the opposition Labour party's lead in polls before a general election due by May 1997.
The Recs, which were privatised by the Conservatives in 1989, have triggered sharp public and opposition party criticism for big dividends, bulging executive pay packets and bumper takeover prices.
But companies may well consider chances of an approval for takeover more likely with a Conservative government than from Labour, which already plans a "windfall" tax on utilities if it gains power.
"There's definitely a feeling that the window of opportunity is closing on these bids," said the sector analyst.
Analysts said there could be other U.S. companies looking at the sector, adding that Yorkshire Electricity remained one of the most attractive for a predator.
Industry watchdog Offer completed consultation on CalEnergy's bid on November 7 while the closing date for comments on Dominion's offer is November 22.
Trade secretary Ian Lang has a first deadline for deciding on CalEnergy's bid of November 25, analysts said, but might extend it to mid-December. ($1=.5950 Pound)
Britain's Granada Group, which won control of hotel and catering empire Forte in January, Wednesday reported a 37 percent surge in full-year profits to 480 million pounds ($804 million).
The media and leisure group said that it would deliver on its promise to improve profits at Forte by over 100 million pounds ($167.5 million) per annum from 1996/97.
Calling the results "very satisfying," Granada Chairman Gerry Robinson told Reuters, "The key has been the speed with which we have been able to move on the Forte businesses."
Granada took over family-controlled Forte in a 3.9 billion pound ($6.5 billion) deal earlier this year after a bitter bid battle that raged over the Christmas and New Year period 12 months ago.
The company said Forte had responded well to its management and that it had already improved profitability there by approaching 40 million pounds ($67 million).
Granada continues to reorganize following the acquisition of Britain's leading hotel group. Robinson said there was substantial interest from a wide range of potential purchasers of the luxury hotels it has put on the market.
Granada sold the first of the 17 Exclusive hotels Tuesday when Hong Kong-based Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. bought London's Hyde Park Hotel for 86 million pounds ($144 million).
Robinson said Granada expected to complete the disposals by early 1997. Analysts calculate the sale of assets including the George V in Paris and Plaza Athenee in New York will raise a total of about 900 million pounds ($1.5 billion).
The Granada chairman said the company hoped to sell the Welcome Break chain of British motorway service areas in January or February of next year. The 21 sites were acquired in the Forte deal but must be sold off because of monopoly concerns.
But he said there were no plans to sell the 10.8 percent stake Granada holds in pay television operator British Sky Broadcasting.
Group turnover in the year to end-September climbed 60 percent to 3.82 billion pounds ($6.4 billion). Total dividend was raised by 11 percent to 13p (21.8 cents) per share.
Granada shares, which had risen in recent days in anticipation of bumper results, fell by 8p (13.4 cents) to 884 1/2p ($14.81) in a generally gloomy market.
The largest contribution came from the Restaurants division, which boosted profit before interest and tax by 80 percent to 217 million pounds ($363.5 million) as the Forte acquisition bore fruit.
The new Hotels unit contributed 168 million ($281.4 million) while Media, including Granada's two British commercial television stations, made 163 million ($273.0 million), up 17 percent. Profits from the high street rentals arm was marginally higher at 126 million ($211 million).
British power generator National Power Plc said on Wednesday that half year profits had slipped, hurt by exceptional charges over costs of an aborted takeover, and said the year's output could be 20 percent down.
Pretax profits for the half year before exceptional items of 57 million pounds ($95.79 million) were 251 million pounds, down from 254 million pounds previously, compared with forecasts of between 210 and 253 million pounds.
The company paid out a dividend of six pence per share, up from 5.4 pence, towards the lower end of forecasts, and said it would continue to deliver real dividend growth.
Shares slid 12-1/2 pence by 1206 GMT to 440-1/2 pence, having touched a low of 435 pence.
"The results were all pretty solid and as expected but there is some disappointment that the dividend was skimpy and the market was a bit caught out on the exceptionals," said one sector analyst who asked not to be named.
National Power's 11 percent increase in dividend compares with a 20 percent hike made by its colleague PowerGen at interim results on November 14.
The exceptional charges included an unrealised loss on its investment in and abortive acquisition costs of regional electricity company (rec) Southern Electric.
The bid was blocked by the UK authorities in April along with PowerGen 's proposed takeover of Midlands Electricity.
"Taking a charge over Southern is a prudent thing to do and they may be able to sell at a profit later," the analyst said.
National Power was understood to have written down the stake it holds in Southern at 615.5 pence per share, compared to trading levels of around 700 pence on Wednesday.
"The situation could reverse itself very easily, look at PowerGen," the analyst said.
PowerGen sold the 21 percent stake it had built up in Midlands to the Rec's eventual owner Scottish Power and took an exceptional credit of 69 million pounds.
National Power said increasing competition in the UK market had affected first half results and that its market share slipped to 27 percent from 30 percent a year ago as total demand grew by three percent.
The slide was largely anticipated after National Power was forced to sell 4,000 MegaWatts of generating capacity to comply with industry watchdog Offer requirements.
The company said it was changing shape to emerge as "a leading global power company," and pointed to an increasing input from overseas activities, which are expected to contribute post tax income of 70 million pounds for the year.
Overseas investments now total 900 million pounds with interests in some 7,500 MW of capacity or 3,000 MW on a net basis.
"Overseas is coming along quite nicely," the analyst said.
National Power said its repositioning "means we are well placed both to compete strongly in the UK market, and to build on our material and increasingly profitable overseas business."
The company said costs associated with paying out a one pound per share special dividend, announced with full year results in May, would total around 50 million pounds and would fall in the second half of the year.
"Over time, National Power is going to become a different type of company with less earnings from the UK. This is the uncertain transition period," the sector analyst said.
($1=.5950 Pound)
Britain's Granada Group, which won control of hotel and catering empire Forte in January, on Wednesday reported a 37 percent surge in full-year profits to 480 million pounds ($804 million).
The media and leisure group said that it would deliver on its promise to improve profits at Forte by over 100 million pounds per annum from 1996/97.
Granada chairman Gerry Robinson called the results "very satisfying". "The key has been the speed with which we have been able to move on the Forte businesses," he told Reuters.
Granada took over family-controlled Forte in a 3.9 billion pound deal earlier this year after a bitter bid battle that raged over the Christmas and New Year period 12 months ago.
The company said that Forte had responded well to its management and that it had already improved profitability there by approaching 40 million pounds.
Granada continues to reorganise following the acquisition of Britain's leading hotel group. Robinson said there was substantial interest from a wide range of potential purchasers of the luxury hotels it has put on the market.
Granada sold the first of the 17 Exclusive hotels on Tuesday when Hong Kong based Mandarin Oriental International Ltd bought London's Hyde Park Hotel for 86 million pounds.
Robinson said that Granada expected to complete the disposals by early 1997. Analysts calculate the sale of assets including the George V in Paris and Plaza Athenee in New York will raise a total of around 900 million pounds.
The Granada chairman said that the company hoped to sell the Welcome Break chain of British motorway service areas in January or February of next year. The 21 sites were acquired in the Forte deal but must be sold off because of monopoly concerns.
But he said there were no plans to sell the 10.8 percent stake Granada holds in pay television operator British Sky Broadcasting.
Group turnover in the year to end-September climbed 60 percent to 3.82 billion pounds. Total dividend was raised by 11 percent to 13p per share.
Granada shares, which had risen in recent days in anticipation of bumper results, fell by 8p to 884 1/2p in a generally gloomy market.
The largest contribution came from the Restaurants division, which boosted profit before interest and tax by 80 percent to 217 million pounds as the Forte acquisition bore fruit.
The new Hotels unit contributed 168 million while Media, including Granada's two British commercial television stations, made 163 million, up 17 percent. Profits from the high street rentals arm was marginally higher at 126 million.
Debt-laden Eurotunnel faced fresh financial pressure on Wednesday in the wake of the fire which swept through a main tunnel leaving a trail of damage, no running services and shaken consumer confidence.
Just one month after coming back from the brink of bankruptcy with a restructuring of nine billion pounds ($15 billion) of debt, the company faced uncertainy once again as one of its two rail tunnels remained shut pending a safety review.
Analysts said the modest fall in Eurotunnel shares since Monday's fire was about right, however, and few believed there would be long-term damage to customer confidence.
Eurotunnel has warned of reduced services for weeks ahead as repair work goes ahead and eats into revenues.
And one source close to Eurotunnel told Reuters that the cost of repairs may be heavier than first thought. "The cost will be millions (of pounds) and could get into double figures, it you consider the damage to the 15 wagons and a locomotive, plus severe tunnel damage."
He added that track sections may also need replacing after buckling in the intense heat.
While the tunnel remains shut, Eurotunnel is losing revenues at the rate of one million pounds a day. It also faces the cost of compensating passengers and tranferring them by air or ferry.
A Eurotunnel spokesman said all these costs should be covered by insurance, however.
"It will have very little impact," said one analyst. "Transport disasters are always newsworthy but the bad publicity will soon fade away. Eurotunnel will be financially damaged, but you have to look at it in relation to the nine billion of debt."
The ferries have been scooping up extra business from big freight customers like TNT, which said it would be using the ferries more as a result of the tunnel fire.
Andrew Darke, analyst at Williams de Broe, said "There's clearly going to be some emotional reaction, but I expect it to be short-lived. After all passenger numbers rose after the Herald of Free Enterprise (ferry) disaster nine years ago.
"Disasters don't stop people travelling. People still go shopping in London despite IRA bombs," he said.
Eurotunnel had around 45 percent of the cross-Channel ferry market before the fire -- a share won partly by waging a cut-throat price-war with the ferries, which have since proposed linking up to battle against their tunnel rival.
Swedish ferry giant Stena Line and P&amp;O agreed to merge in October and are awaiting clearance from competition bodies.
Darke said P&amp;O's chances of clearance had been boosted by the tunnel disaster. The verdict is due later this month.
($1=.5950 Pound)
State-owned Air France on Wednesday reported dramatically improved earnings of 802 million francs ($158 million) in the first half and placed a bumper order for 20 Boeing and Airbus aircraft, plus options.
The profit estimate for the six months to September 30, which emerged in an Air France board statement, compared with a loss of 335 million francs a year ago.
The improved results and Air France's aim to break even in 1996/97 was underlined with orders for 10 Boeing 777 twinjets, and options for 10 more. The airline also ordered five Airbus A340s, confirmed five orders made in June and options for a further five.
Air France chairman Christian Blanc won vital support from Prime Minister Alain Juppe to buy from Seattle-based Boeing instead of ordering solely from its archrival Airbus Industrie , the European consortium based in southwest France.
At catalogue prices, which are rarely paid, the orders and options for the Boeing 777-200 version ordered could be worth around $2.7 billion. Airbus would stand to gain $1.75 billion.
List prices for the B777-200 range between $128 and $146 million, while the Airbus A340-300 costs $110 to $120 million.
"In the reorganisation of its fleet, Air France is obliged to buy Boeing," Transport Minister Bernard Pons told parliament.
"It is obliged to meet commitments made in 1989, unless it accepts losing deposits and taking legal action which risks being much more expensive than taking this decision."
The French airline had orders outstanding with Boeing worth $994 million and $2 billion of options, Pons said, adding that the airline had skillfully negotiated the latest order to respect the initial undertaking.
The three state representatives on the Air France board approved the Boeing 777 purchase "not because they are the best or the most profitable but because they best meet the company's needs," Pons said.
Air France had also accepted to be a launch customer for the planned A340-600, a "stretched" version of the A340, he said.
Airbus hopes to build the 375-seater to smash Boeing's monopoly at the large capacity aircraft segment.
Air France said that due to financial problems, it froze at the end of 1994 all aircraft orders, including the 1989 Boeing order, and opened talks with the two plane-makers.
Air France has since rationalised its fleet, restructured its network around a centralised "hub" at Paris Charles De Gaulle airport and optimised aircraft use. It has over the past two years increased the number of flying hours by 14 percent.
Pons welcomed Air France's financial results, saying: "The results are very encouraging."
The company said it made its profit despite a rise in spending on fuel of nearly 500 million francs for the period.
Turnover was up nearly five percent to 21.3 billion francs due to a 14.8 percent increase in passenger traffic and a 6.7 percent rise in freight.
Operating profit rose nearly 30 percent to 1.1 billion francs, compared with 849 million in the year-earlier period. The pretax, pre-exceptional result tripled to 660 million francs.
Air France was ahead by "a little more than 250 million francs of its budget" at the six months stage, the company said. The first half is traditionally better for seasonal reasons and should not be used to extrapolate for the full year, it added.
Debt stood at 12.9 billion francs at September 30, versus 19.2 billion at March 31, 1996. The repayment of 6.3 billion francs significantly exceeded the last tranche of its state recapitalisation paid in September.
The Boeing order consists of the heavier "Increased Gross Weight" version of the basic 777-200, equipped with GE90 engines built by General Electric and France's Snecma. The B777-200 will seat 288 passengers in three-classes.
The Airbus order is for the A340-200E version equipped with CFM56-5C4 engines. ($1=5.075 French Franc)
Britain's Northern Foods sees world dairy commodity prices as unlikely to improve in the second half but the impact of this on earnings should be partly offset by improved margins on prepared foods, said Jo Stewart, managing director of the company's prepared food division.
"There is no immediate prospect of commodity prices improving in the second half. We are also very driven by the strength of sterling aginst other currencies," Stewart said in a telephone interview after the firm reported first half results.  
In the first half prices on the world commodity markets for butter, skimmed milk and bulk cream were off some 20 percent on last year's levels.
Weakening world demand for dairy productes and the rise in sterling against the other marjor European currencies was not offset by a reduction in Northern's cost of milk.
Eden Vale Food Ingredients, which sells by-products of milk production like butter, skimmed milk powder and cream, on world commodity markets was the hardest hit of Northern's divisions.  
Overall, however margins recovered on the company's prepared foods business rising one percentage point to 8.0 percent in the first half and there was room for further improvement in the second half, Stewart said.
"Our markets have been strengthening in general. We have seen stronger consumer demand, a trend we expect to continue at least until the end of our fiscal year."
Northern achieved four percent price inflation on its prepared foods in the first half, compared with zero last year, and so far consumers have not reacted to price increases by curbing their demand, said Stewart.  
A typical pack of Northern's biscuits is now 2p higher at 51p than six months ago.
The impact of the beef crisis on consumers demand for beef and meat pies and in turn on Northern's operating profit should lessen in the second half to 2.0-3.0 million, said Stewart.
Sales of Northern's meat products were off 6.8 percent in the first half as shoppers continued to worry about a link between mad-cow disease and a similar brain wasting disease in humans. Northern estimated the beef crisis cost it about 3.0 million pounds in the first half.  
"The impact of BSE is likely to be a little less in the second half as we have put products in the market that can take the same role. We now use chicken, lamb or pork in a pie."
Before the beef crisis about 55 percent of Northern's hot pies were beef against 40 percent today. Pies are more important to Northern in the winter months of the second half year.
Competition in supplying milk to supermarkets remains intense but the recent erosion in prices should stop soon, said Stewart. "The profitability of that sector is now such that people are losing money and we expect the price erosion to stop," he said.  
Northern now supplies about 33 percent of all milk in supermarkets, haing lost about two percentage points of market share in the first half.
Robert Wiseman and fast-expanding Danish dairy products group MD Foods were especially keen on pricing of milk to supermarkets in the first half.
On Tuesday Unigate said its sales of milk to supermarkets fell 2.4 percent in the first half and dairy profits fell 2.9 million stg to 17.6 million due to lower prices for butter and milk powders, which Unigate estimated cost it about 4.0 million in the period.
Northern reported dairy profits down 27 percent at 21.6 million in the six months ended September 30.
Profits from its prepared foods division were up 24.2 percent at 43.1 million, driven hardest by the grocery sector which benefitted from a full six month contribution from Green Isle which sells the Goodfella pizza brand.
-- London Newsroom +44 71 542 6437
Canada's Trade Minister Art Eggleton is in good health and will leave Tuesday night for an international conference in Manila, despite being taken to hospital earlier Tuesday after he collapsed at a meeting here.
"The last thing I heard was he's still going to Manila," Eggleton's spokeswoman Elaine McArdle told Reuters by telephone from in Ottawa. "His health is great. It doesn't appear that anything is broken."  
Speakers had just finished addressing a luncheon audience of businessmen and trade officials at Toronto's Westin Harbour Castle Hotel when Eggleton, 53, tripped as he got up to leave the head table.
"There was a gap in the floorboards and he went right through them," McArdle said.
Other dignitaries helped Eggleton, pale and shaky, to a chair where he waited with his head resting on a table until ambulance attendants arrived. The attendants strapped on an oxygen mask and carried Eggleton out on a stretcher.  
Witnesses said he twisted his ankle as he fell and landed on his knee.
Eggleton had been expected to speak at the luncheon with Chilean President Eduardo Frei. Canada and Chile signed a free trade pact in Ottawa on Monday.
Eggleton plans to leave for Manila on Tuesday night for the Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation (APEC) annual meeting and leaders summit.
He is scheduled to accompany Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien to China and Japan after the APEC conference.
China's foreign currency B shares in both Shanghai and Shenzhen surged on Wednesday as investors piled in money on the back of rumours the government was planning measures to support the markets, brokers said.
Shanghai's B share index soared 5.49 percent to 49.689 points, while the Shenzhen index was up 8.25 percent to 111.35 in heavy trade.
"There have been widespread talk that regulators are meeting somewhere discussing ways to turn around the long bearishness of the Hong Kong dollar-denominated stock market," a broker at China Southern Securities in Shenzhen said.
"Such rumours triggered a steady inflow of fresh money," he added.
In Shanghai, brokers said the sharp rise was a reflection of the activity in the Shenzhen market with overseas investors buying selected stocks with relatively good prospects.
"B shares prices had become too cheap to drop any further, with the domestic economic situation improving," one broker said. "And recent rises in Shenzhen B shares also provided a chance for Shanghai B shares to follow."
In Shenzhen, brokers and analysts said the recent surges were linked to a report in the Shenzhen-based Securities Times last Thursday that the China Securities Regulatory Commission has been concerned about the market's prolonged bearishness.
The newspaper quoted the CSRC's chairman Zhou Daojiong as saying at an international business forum in Beijing that the poor performance of the country's B markets had negatively affected China's reform and open policy.
The buying is being led by Chinese domestic institutional investors, with increasing amounts of money from overseas investors, said brokers.
"There is also money coming from Chinese individual investors, but the amount is imposssible to calculate because it's illegal," said one analyst.
China's B shares are supposed to be for foreign investors only, but most of the trading is now done by domestic investors through a variety of means.
Stock analysts were at a loss to come up with suggestions as to what market-boosting measures may be implemented, assuming the rumours of an impending announcement from Beijing are correct.
"Beyond quietly allowing local Chinese investors to come back into the market, I can't think what they could do," said one analyst. "The problem has always been that the companies listed on the B share market are not performing well enough."
Another analyst said that the B share market will face a correction over the short term, given the fast pace of its ascent and that its medium-term trend should be decided by whether regulators announced stimulative policies.
"The rumours are responsible for the current rises but market fundamentals have changed little," said a Shanghai broker. "The upward trend can only be established after concrete governmental measures are announced. Otherwise, it will shortly be reversed."
Bankruptcies in China -- unheard of for almost four decades -- are expected to more than double in number this year as authorities try to shed hopelessly indebted firms.
The figure is expected to rise even further next year as officials become more determined not to subsidise loss-making state firms.
More than 5,200 Chinese companies were expected to go under in 1996, up from 2,200 in 1995 or more than the previous six years put together, Cao Siyuan, architect of China's bankruptcy law, said.
"Whether enterprises are psychologically prepared for it or not, the rate of bankruptcies gradually increasing is unavoidable," Cao said in a recent interview.
In the first half of this year, 1,692 enterprises declared bankruptcy, soaring by more than 107 percent compared with the year-ago period, said Cao, who now runs a consultancy to help enterprises seeking to merge or go bankrupt.
A total of 1,625 firms declared bankruptcy in 1994, up from 710 in 1993, 428 in 1992, 117 in 1991 and 32 in 1990.
China passed a breakthrough bankruptcy law in 1988 in the first flush of an ambitious campaign to force lumbering state-owned enterprises to sink or swim in the marketplace.
However, official fears of mass unemployment and social unrest if loss-making firms are allowed to go under has hampered implementation of the bitter medicine.
But China was expected to accelerate bankruptcies and mergers of state firms next year to reduce the burden on state coffers and slash subsidies to state enterprises.
There is little need for alarm for the ever-increasing number of bankruptcies because it is only a fraction of the total number of enterprises, said Cao.
"One can't say it's too big," Cao said of the number of insolvent enterprises. "Currently, the bankruptcy rate is less than 0.1 percent (of the total number of firms)... One percent is normal."
About one percent of China's estimated 100,000 state enterprises were hopelessly in debt and completely unattractive to investors looking for cheap companies to purchase or to merge with, Cao said.
In Huangshi city in the northern province of Hubei, about 80 percent of medium- and large-size state enterprises are losing money, the official People's Daily said.
China's state sector reported a historic net loss of 3.0 billion yuan ($361.4 million) in the first quarter, the first such deficit since the country embraced paramount leader Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms in 1979.
The government allocated 20 billion yuan this year to write off bad debts of state firms which go under, but this is hardly enough, the People's Daily said.
In Wuhu city in the central province of Anhui, 420 million yuan is needed to write off the bad debts of 35 state firms, but only 50 million yuan has been allocated, the newspaper said.
"Mergers and bankruptcies... are roads without detour," the People's Daily, mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party, said.
"(Enterprises) which should die should be allowed to die," the newspaper said. "Mergers and bankruptcies are a reform in which we have more to gain than lose."
But bankruptcies and mergers must guard against social unrest, debt evasion and theft of state assets, it said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Some Chinese traders are moving to take advantage of a sharp rally in world copper prices by selling the red metal back to the market, Far East metal industry sources said on Wednesday.
A rise in copper stocks held in London Metal Exchange (LME) warehouses in Singapore was attributed in part by some trading sources to Chinese selling.
"With such high LME prices, I believe some (copper) will be brought out of China," a Singapore trader said.  
He said stocks in Singapore rose 5,000 to 6,000 tonnes late last week -- after hovering at extremely low levels for the past couple of months -- as Chinese buyers sold material recently taken from LME warehouses elsewhere.
Asian traders have said China is adding substantial tonnages -- up to 300,000 tonnes -- to its central stockpile, with a third of that amount now passing through customs in Shanghai.
These reports have helped fuel a rally in three-month LME copper, which has climbed almost 20 percent in recent weeks on tight physical supply.  
Three-month LME metal hit a five-month high of $2,232 a tonne on Tuesday, up from $1,900 at the end of October.
Whether or not the copper now in China has completed customs formalities is not an issue, sources said.
"This is the government, they do what they like," said one.
There was a feeling, however, that Chinese government departments, mired in bureaucratic red tape, would be unable to move fast enough to take advantage of rapid market movements.
This would be the province of minor trading companies using hot money to buy small lots for speculative purposes.  
At least one Asian trader reported small parcel offerings from Chinese companies wanting to pick up between $200-$300 a tonne in profit.
Prices are at their highest since June 14 when Japan's Sumitomo Corp announced that one of its copper traders had wracked up losses in unauthorised deals now said by the company to be US$2.6 billion.
Reports from Europe last week of a hidden hoard of 600,000 tonnes of copper in Rotterdam were shot down by Asian traders.  
Tight global supply is now driving prices, with LME copper stocks below 100,000 tonnes for the first time since 1990 and representing less than a month's demand.
Traders in the Far East, polled in recent days, told Reuters this fundamental shift in the world supply/demand picture should keep prices buoyed at least in the short term.
"It's a volatile market and it is impossible to know what is going to happen," a South American source said.
"Is it going to stay over $1/lb next year? Absolutely, I have no doubt about that. It won't be for a couple of days, I'm talking for maybe a quarter and I think it will then stay there.  
"Why? Consumption. Don't forget consumption. It is much more important than people think. The fundamentals really call for a higher price," he said.
Shanghai and surrounding areas alone use upwards of 45,000 tonnes of copper a month, a European source in Hong Kong said.
But physical copper on the Shanghai Metal Exchange has also been tight as traders there liquidate their positions on the rising LME prices.
"Prices have gone up so fast it is a little bit hard to digest," a trader in Shanghai said.
"It could be beneficial to export," she said.  
"On the other hand, anyone who wanted to buy could be afraid the price will start to go the other way. It's close to year-end, book-squaring time, so everyone will want to sit back and wait."
($1=8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
China has launched an ideological onslaught on dissent in Tibet, vowing to crack down on pro-independence monks and nuns and calling for tighter controls on religion in the restive Himalayan region.
Beijing's campaign to build "spiritual civilisation" -- communist code for a return to socialist values -- was a matter of strategic importance for the region's future, the official Tibet Daily said in an edition seen in Beijing on Wednesday.
The ideological campaign would aim to cut the role of religion in the deeply Buddhist region, as well as wipe out the influence of Tibet's exiled spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, and curb separatism, the newspaper's November 11 edition said.
"Monks and nuns who follow the Dalai Lama clique's separatist wrecking activities will be dealt with according to the law," it quoted Tibet's communist leadership as saying.
"Those who use religion and superstition in...activities threatening the physical and mental health of the masses will be resolutely suppressed," it said in a long front-page report laced with references to Marxist ideological struggle.
China has long tried to weed out pro-independence monks and nuns, blaming them for playing a major role in an underground Tibetan campaign against Beijing rule.
The London-based watchdog group Tibet Information Network reported this week that a jailed Tibetan nun had had her sentence doubled to 18 years for defying Beijing's choice as the reincarnation of the region's second holiest monk.
The 10th Panchen Lama died in 1989, and Beijing has anointed a six-year-old boy as his reincarnation. The Dalai Lama has named another six-year-old boy as the 11th Panchen Lama.
The identification of reincarnations of living Buddhas, organisation of major religious activities and construction of religious sites all require local government approval, the Tibet Daily said, adding that management of religious festivals would be tightened.
Monks and nuns would be organised to take part in activities to benefit society and would be directed to become "patriotic religious professionals", while Communist Party members who took part in religious events would be disciplined, it said.
Work was needed to establish in Tibetan people's minds the view that their region was an inseparable part of China, it said.
Spiritual civilisation, a watchword touted by China's leadership as a way to revive socialist morality weakened by the nation's rush to a market-style economy, was also needed to combat enemy Westerners, the Tibet Daily said.
"The schemes of hostile Western forces to split and Westernise us will not change," it said, without giving details.
The newspaper reserved some of its harshest rhetoric for supporters of the Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign for autonomy for his homeland.
Beijing's main rival for Tibetan loyalties has lived in exile since a failed uprising against communist rule in 1959, but he remains revered among the region's devout Buddhists.
"The ideological infiltration of our region by the Dalai Lama clique is still very fierce," the Tibet Daily said. "The splittist forces' war to win ground, win over the masses and the the youth and win command of the monasteries is still intense."
China's personal bank deposits, which surged in the past two years to stratospheric levels, have begun to grow more slowly as a result of two bank interest rate cuts this year, bankers and analysts said on Wednesday.
But the growth rate is still high -- more than 30 percent year-on-year -- and the huge deposits in the banks still pose a threat to the economy, with the possibility of fanning inflation, if the money is released into the market, they said.
However, there is little chance that the deposits will be unleashed in the short term because the authorities are determined to maintain their tight monetary policy, they said.
By the end of 1995, individual Chinese deposits totalled 2,970 billion yuan ($3,578 billion), thanks largely to high interest rates set by authorities to drain money from the system and cool inflation, which hit a high of 21 percent in 1994, analysts said.
But the growth of the deposits began to slow down this year.
In the first quarter of 1996, individual bank deposits increased by 40.1 percent year-on-year, slowing to 34.5 percent growth in the third quarter, according to figures by the People's Bank of China, the central bank.
"The trend is changing," said a Beijing-based banker with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). "With the central government reducing interest rates and supporting the securities market, some money is moving elsewhere."
"Despite the change, the huge amount (of deposits) continues to be a tiger in a cage," said another banker with Shanghai-based Communications Bank. "If released into the market, it would pose a serious threat to push inflation up again."
The central bank sliced interest rates in May and August with the annual rate for one-year fixed deposits reduced to 7.47 percent after both cuts, from a very high 10.98 percent rate up to May.
In April, it also abolished an inflationary subsidy for long-term bank deposits of three years and above.
The cuts followed steady declines in the nation's inflation rate, which has dropped to about six percent this year from 14.7 percent last year.
Analysts said the interest rate cuts signalled a cautious relaxation of Beijing's tight monetary policy, begun in mid-1993 to cool an overheated economy characterised by surging inflation.
But Beijing will continue to keep a tight control on credit with the money supply remaining very high and the danger of reigniting inflation still present, they said.
"Experience since 1993 has proved that if we do not insist on tight monetary policy, high economic growth rates and the downward trend on inflation will be unsustainable," a central bank official said last week.
China's broad M2 supply increased by a year-on-year 26.9 percent by the end of September, slightly less than last year's 29.5 percent growth.
Beijing has set the M2 target at 25 percent for this year.
"The problem can only be solved when macro-economic conditions allow a complete relaxation of austerity measures and when interest rates are further cut to the level (where) the deposits can be gradually absorbed," said an ICBC official.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Signals from Hong Kong's likely future leader that the Chinese Communist Party might become legal in the territory in 1997 raised concerns in the pro-democracy camp on Wednesday about the party's future power.
Concern was stirred up after the man tipped as the favourite to become Hong Kong's chief executive, shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, said on Tuesday he would accept the Communist Party's legalisation after the British colony reverts to China.
London is handing Hong Kong back at midnight next June 30, and Tung is the frontrunner to lead it after he received 51 percent of the votes in the first round of a ballot last week by the 400-member selection committee organised by China.
Although China is ruled by the Communist Party, Beijing has promised Hong Kong wide-ranging autonomy, leaving its capitalist system intact for 50 years under a policy of "Hong Kong people running Hong Kong" and "one country, two systems".
"The most important thing is, what will be the role of the Communist Party in Hong Kong after the handover, because whether it's legal or not it is here," legislator Emily Lau told Reuters.
Many people in Hong Kong have speculated that the future Chief Executive will be stage-managed by a Communist overlord from Beijing. China has publicly denied this is the plan.
Tung said on Tuesday in response to a reporter's question that he would accept the party's legalisation if asked to do so.
"That's totally unnecessary. It's already there," said Martin Lee, leader of the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest.
The democracy camp is worried about what power, if any, the Communist Party might wield over Hong Kong, which is supposed to be administratively separate from the rest of China.
"Let's be realistic. China is dominated by the Communist Party and the Communist party already has an office here in the form of the Xinhua News Agency headed by Zhou Nan," independent lawmaker Christine Loh told Reuters.
"In the future after 1997 there is no reason to continue to pretend the Communist Party is not here," Loh said.
"But the problem is the Communist party isn't just an ordinary political party. In China it dominates the political and governmental institutions. So what we want to know is that its presence here would not represent interference," she said.
A Hong Kong security authority spokesman said the Communist Party is not legally registered in Hong Kong and, therefore, does not exist in the eyes of the law.
Hong Kong's colonial authorities outlawed all political parties. Since 1990, however, they have been allowed to register under the societies ordinance. As a result, parties such as Lee's Democrats are registered as societies.
But, "The Communist Party is not registered under the societies ordinance and we've received no application from them for registration," chief government spokesman Kerry McGlynn told Reuters. He declined to comment further.
A government source said the government never talks about the issue in detail. "When a politician raised the issue last year, the government's spokespersons just looked down and mumbled into their beards."
"In terms of legalising it, I'm not aware that the Communist Party is actually illegal, but we know it's not legally constituted by being registered," Loh said.
In the past, the party was involved in violent conflicts with the colonial government, especially the Hong Kong riots of 1967 inspired by China's radical-left Cultural Revolution.
Two major shareholders in Canada's Altamira Management Ltd. have set a mid-December deadline to resume their court action to block a C$660 million takeover bid by Manufacturers Life Insurance Co. Ltd. if negotiations to settle the dispute fail.
"The preference is to resolve this as quickly as possible," said Rick Leckner, a spokesman for Almiria Capital Corp. which owns 30.5 percent of Altamira.
"If it has to come to that (a court battle) -- sad as it may be -- it still has to be considered. But the ideal solution is a negotiated one," he said in a telephone interview.
Toronto-based Manulife, Canada's biggest insurance company, has offered C$32 a share for Altamira, the country's 12-largest mutual fund company.
The battle for Altamira took a surprising twist on Wednesday when U.S. investment firm T.A. Associates Inc. launched a rival C$38 a share, or C$767 million, bid for the Canadian mutual fund company.
Manulife already owns 30.5 percent of Altamira and has the support of a group of 40 Altamira fund managers who are shareholders of Altamira.
But the bid is opposed as too low by Montreal-based Almiria and a group led by Altamira Chairman Ron Meade which holds about 11 percent of Altamira.
The lawsuit launched by Almiria and Meade's group Tuesday was scheduled to proceed Wednesday in an Ontario court. But the feuding parties agreed to try and negotiate a settlement.
Leckner said on Thursday that those talks have not yet begun. The court action is set to resume on December 18.
T.A. Associates is one of the largest private equity investors in the United States.
"We believe that our proposed transaction serves the purposes of all of the parties, and, more importantly, is in the long-term best interests of the unitholders of the Altamira funds," Andrews McLane, T.A. Associates' manager director, said in a letter to Altamira shareholders on Wednesday.
He said the offer was made on behalf of private equity partnerships managed by the Boston firm and other institutional investors.
Under the terms of the offer, Manulife would have to agree to release the group of employee shareholders from a promise to tender their shares to its offer.
"We do not believe that this highly tentative proposal justifies any delay in implementation of the transaction we have agreed upon," Manulife said in a statement on Wednesday.
Altamira manages Canada's biggest no-load mutual fund with about C$6.2 billion in mutual fund assets.
Manulife is the country's largest insurance company with about C$50 billion in assets.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100
Diana Corp said Thursday that its decision to spin off its various business holdings and keep only its Sattel Communications Inc unit should attract analyst coverage of the firm.
"The analysts on Wall Street were not interested in picking up coverage of the company" because of its diverse holdings, said Sattel spokesman Tony Squeglia.
No analysts actively follow Diana, he said, which in addition to Sattel includes telecommunications equipment distribution and meat and seafood businesses.  
Diana said Thursday it would retain Sattel Communications, which provides telephone and Internet switching equipment, and would change its name to Sattel.
The other businesses -- including Atlanta Provision Co Inc, C&amp;L Communications Inc and Valley Communications Inc -- will be grouped together in a yet-to-be-named company that will trade on the Nasdaq.
Atlanta Provision, a meat and seafood distributor, remains for sale, although a deal is not imminent. "I know they are in discussions with potential buyers, but there is nothing close," Squeglia said.  
After the split, he added, the core businesses of the new company will include Atlanta Provision, which currently accounts for about 80 percent of Diana's total revenues.
Diana's plans to split into two companies follows its announcement earlier this year that it would restructure to make Sattel a pure play, or a primary business focus.
"We did a survey of shareholders and found that many of the shareholders who hold the stock today...bought Diana as a proxy for Sattel," Squeglia said in a telephone interview. "So there's a lot of interest in the one operating unit called Sattel Communications."  
He reiterated that Sattel, for its fiscal second quarter ended in September, is expected to have roughly $4.0 million in sales and to be modestly profitable. In the fiscal first quarter, Sattel's revenues were roughly $840,000.
The increase in revenues between the first and second quarters reflects recent sales of its DSS switches, which are used in long-distance telecommunications services.
Diana is expected to report results for its second quarter -- which for the entire firm ended in October -- on November 26.
Diana's decision to split into two companies was applauded by the market. Diana's shares traded as high as 41-3/4 Thursday, and were up 3/8 at 37-1/4 late in afternoon trading.
"We're obviously pleased at the way the market has reacted," Squeglia said.
Diana shares have traded in a wide range, from a 52-week low of 11-3/4 to a high of 114-1/4. Diana has repeatedly declined to comment on its stock movements.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787
Acknowledging its failure to attract U.S. consumers, CompuServe Corp said it would disband its family-oriented Wow! online service and plans to defend its business and technical customer base.
The world's second-largest online service also said it would accelerate the way it expenses customer marketing costs and that it was taking a $28.6 million charge in the latest quarter for previously incurred subscriber acquisition costs.
Instead, it said it would pursue higher margin businesses, including international consumer markets, such as Europe.  
"For CompuServe, this represents a strategic retreat back to its basics," said Peter Krasilovsky, a veteran analyst of the online industry at Arlen Communications in Bethesda, Md.
"CompuServe will never contend for the King's mantle among the online service/Internet service providers in North America again," he declared.
CompuServe stock fell 1-5/8, to 10-1/8, in early trading. H&amp;R Block Inc, which several months ago suspended plans to spin off its remaining 80 percent stake in CompuServe to shareholders, fell 1-1/2, to 26-7/8.  
Earlier today, H&amp;R had reported a substantial loss for its quarter ended October 31, citing CompuServe's turmoil, and said it planned to go ahead with a cut in its quarterly dividend payment to $0.20 per share from $0.32 previously.
In its own report, CompuServe said it lost $0.63 per share for the second quarter ended in October, after charges for exiting the Wow! business and other accounting changes. This compared to a $0.19 a share profit in the year-ago quarter.
Disbanding Wow! resulted in an after-tax charge of $4.9 million, or $0.06 a share, and amortization of prior marketing costs led to the charge of $28.6 million, or $0.31 a share.  
"CompuServe's core users have always appreciated that service most for its independent forums and bulletin boards. They don't have any other place in cyberspace to get those services," Krasilovsky said.
CompuServe officials stressed that no new layoffs would result from the latest moves. Wow!'s 35 employees have already been absorbed into CompuServe Interactive, they said. The company's total headcount stands at about 3,200 worldwide.
In a telephone interview, CompuServe spokesman Steve Conway maintained that while his company was abandoning further mass marketing efforts aimed at U.S. consumers, "If you are currently a subscriber, you will not notice a change."  
Nontheless, the Columbus, Ohio-based company said it would focus its efforts and investments going forward on business and professional markets, its traditional selling point.
Besides defending its core online services customer base, they said CompuServe will focus on other profitable operations like its network systems infrastructure unit, which generates 30 percent of total revenues.
In disbanding its Wow! service, the company blamed new market entrants, or Internet service providers, pricing competition and the high costs of consumer marketing.
The company announced plans to launch early next year a new "CompuServe for Business" serivce, an enhanced version of its core CompuServe Interactive with a new software interface and added content from "thousands" of information providers.  
Despite a series of missteps in the United States, growth remains robust overseas, where CompuServe's brand is the best recognized name among online and Internet access providers.
Conway said CompuServe Interactive's service has nearly doubled in its number of subscribers in Europe during the past 12 months, rising to more than 800,000 from about 450,000. "It's a growing market for these services, and we outpaced the market," he said.
About 60 percent of CompuServe's European customers are for business, professional and technical users, while 40 percent fall in the consumer category, Conway said.
That's roughly the inverse of North America, where about 55 percent of CompuServe's main service are consumers.
The 800,000 customers represent the bulk of CompuServe's international base, which totaled 1.12 million at October 31.
The Wow! service had been introduced only seven months ago to much fanfare, but failed to get off the ground.
CompuServe Vice President Scott Kaufman, the man in charge of developing the Wow! service, promised at the time Wow! was lauched to carpet bomb consumers with free software disks promoting the new service.
"They'll be falling out of cereal boxes," he had vowed at the time.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
The Czech crown firmed from the central bank fixing on Thursday, building on gains after a strong showing of the senior coalition party in Senate elections last weekend and prospects for the second round vote.
Analysts said Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's pro-business Civic Democratic Party (ODS) was expected to take a majority of the 81 seats in the newly-created Senate after runoff elections this weekend should keep the crown firm.
The crown was trading mid-afternoon on Thursday at 26.661 to the dollar and 17.757 to the mark, or 3.05 percent above the Czech National Bank's dollar/mark basket.
"Mostly the expectations are that the ODS will win a majority in the Senate which I think is fairly likely," Citibank economist Radek Maly said.
The ODS already won three seats outright last Saturday and has 76 candidates through to the runoff this Friday and Saturday in the 77 constituencies remaining to be contested.
The crown, despite a ballooning trade deficit, has remained above well above parity with the basket, and has this week strengthened from last Friday's level of +2.45 percent.
Maly said he saw the currency staying close to Thursday's levels, and possibly getting a further bump up on Monday.
"I would personally see this level until the vote... Perhaps Monday we will see a similar situation, a quick strengthening, a quick speculative reaction," he said.
Petr Korous, a dealer at Ceskovslovenska Obchodni Banka, said that despite voter turnout of only 35 percent in the first round of the elections, the market was still firming on the ODS showing.
"There will be some bias toward a stronger Czech crown," he said. "More or less the basic impulse for that is really because of the elections, and then the subsequent recovery of the capital markets."
The Senate has limited political power, but the vote would at least confirm that ODS had not suffered a further loss of confidence after the coaltion saw its majority in the more-powerful lower house evaporate in June general elections.
This week the Prague Stock Exchange has shown its first signs of life since the summer. 
Meanwhile fixed income and crown deposit investors are getting more confident that Klaus's tight fiscal and monetary policies will not be threatened.
"Those who want to play the interest rate differential (with foreign currencies) feel quite comfortable right now," Korous said.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Senate runoff elections on Friday and Saturday should have little impact on Czech capital markets, as investors focus on macroeconomic fundamentals, not political influences.
Analysts said last weekend's first round of voting gave a mild boost to the Czech crown and the Prague Stock Exchange, and unless results from the second round of voting on Friday and Saturday vary greatly, little further boost should be seen.
"Provided that nothing drastic happens, it's pretty much a non-starter from a foreign investor point of view. I think that for the markets, it will be pretty much a non-event," Jay King, of Wood and Company, told Reuters.
In the first round of voting last weekend, Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's right-wing Civic Democratic Party (ODS) posted a strong result, capturing over 36.5 percent of the national vote, an increase of some six percent from June lower house elections where his coalition lost its majority.
The opposition Social Democrats were second with 20.3 percent. The rest of the vote was thinly split among coalition parties and the Communists but only 35 percent of the electorate voted.
Of the 81 Senate seats, the ODS won three outright in the first round and 76 of their candidates go into the runoff, compared with 48 for the CSSD. In 47 constituencies, the runoff is a straight fight between the two main parties.
Analysts said that with the two main parties assured of dominating the Senate, a body which will have limited powers anyway, little change appears imminent for the country's economic, or political course.
"Our expectation is ODS gaining somewhere around half of the total, and including the rest of the coalition it might be well over 50 seats. I don't think there should be any surprises," said Radek Maly, an economist at Citibank Prague.
Following last weekend's vote, the PSE, mired in a two month long slump began to edge higher, gaining some four percent over the week.
But dealers said the gains were based more on weak local buying than a change in sentiment from key foreign investors.
The crown too, ratcheted up slightly after the first round of voting, but has since steadied at 2.9 percent stronger than its dollar/mark basket midpoint.
Some analysts said foreign investors might be tempted, as they were the previous week, to play on a strong Klaus victory early on Monday, but any gain based on the political situation would be short lived.
"There may be some bias toward a stronger Czech crown," said Petr Korous, a dealer at Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka. "There's no other factor, more or less the basic impulse for that (a stronger crown) was really because of the elections, and then the subsequent recovery of the capital markets."
Citibank's Maly added: "I wouldn't foresee any major changes in the fixed income market. The fixed income market is rather less sensitive to these political events than is the FX (foreign exchange) market."
-- Prague newsroom (42 2) 24 23 0003
British opposition Labour party's plans for a one-off "windfall" tax on utility companies may be causing more stock market damage through uncertainty than the tax itself would, analysts said on Thursday.
If it won the next general election, due within six months, Labour has said it would levy a tax to reap excess profits from recently privatised utilities to help pay for welfare reform.
"The market does not like uncertainty -- give it a tax like this with no parameters and it will assume the worst-case scenario," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
As parliament prepared to debate the issue, at the prompting of the ruling Conservatives, analysts said if the Labour party would be more specific about plans, some of the uncertainty weighing on utility shares might lift.
"They have promised to raid the utilities but they have not said which, how much or when, and that is damaging," said Philip Hollobone, analyst at Williams de Broe.
Labour, which is well ahead in opinion polls, has said it would use the funds to tackle youth and long-term unemployment but has declined to set target companies, amounts or timeframes.
Newspaper reports have suggested the tax might be aimed at raising more than five billion pounds ($8.42 billion) and possibly as much as 10 billion pounds.
Speculation on possible targets has widened to include up to 30 companies, like British Telecom, British Gas and perhaps airport operator BAA Plc, in addition to the water and electricity companies initially pointed to.
Some of these, such as BAA, have already rehearsed arguments why they should not be included in any windfall tax net.
The water and electricity sectors, privatised around the start of the decade by the Conservatives, became unpopular after a spate of huge executive pay rises, hefty dividend payouts, and head-turning takeovers deals.
One analyst who declined to be named, suggested that the water sector stocks are currently undervalued by around five billion pounds, reflecting concerns over the tax.
Thames Water, for example, has underperformed the FT All Share Index by as much as 10 percent since late August, according Reuters Securities 3000 data, although its relative has improved recently to underperformance of some four percent.
Shares in regional electricity companies, however, were pulled in two directions as a resurgence of bids in the sector boosted speculation which analysts said may have offset some of the downside of a utility tax.
"The worries over the windfall tax are severely overdone...even if it does happen, most companies will be able to find the money, even if they do not want to," said Hollobone.
Along with several other analysts, he warns that even if Labour does win power it may not be able to effect the tax because of legal problems in ensuring it is non-discriminatory.
Several utility companies have said they would challenge any windfall tax plans in court, but Labour's treasury spokesman Gordon Brown described the proposal as "legally iron tight."
On Thursday, the Institute of Directors (IoD), which represents British business interests, warned against the tax although it acknowledged that "some of the utilities do have spare funds at the moment."
The IoD said the tax could lead to problems over who should pay what amounts and said customers might face increased prices.
The Conservatives have claimed the tax could mean an extra 192 pounds on the average household bill and challenged Labour to come up with figures to contradict this.
"Investors who are wise to the market's over-caution on the proposed tax are buying. These stocks are undervalued and...some are yielding more than long-term bonds," said one analyst.
($1=.5940 Pound)
Drugs giant Glaxo Wellcome Plc bought the remaining 50 percent of its Japanese joint venture Nippon Glaxo for 354 million pounds ($596 million) on Thursday in its quest for growth in the world's second biggest market.
Analysts in London said they had long expected the buy-out of Japanese partner Shin Nihon Jitsugyo Co Ltd, which will also get a 7.7 million pounds (1.38 billion) payout in lieu of the 1996 dividend.
Nippon Glaxo develops, produces and markets prescription medicines across Japan and has net assets of 30.7 billion yen ($275.3 million), as valued on June 30. Its post-tax profit for the six months to June 30 was 2.5 billion yen.
After setting up a series of Japanese joint ventures since the early 1980s, Glaxo has moved to take them over in a bid to carve a share in Japan's lucrative marketplace, second only to the U.S. in terms of profitability and sales to the group.
Seven percent of Glaxo Wellcome's profits stem from Japan, which represents 20 percent of the world market itself.
One London-based pharmaceuticals analyst said: "The deal will be slightly earnings enhancing as it's financed by debt and Japanese interest rates are low at half a percent."
The move to take over ventures in Japan would allow the group to accelerate growth plans by launching new products there, including its new respiratory treatments for asthma and the new herpes treatment Valtrex which replaces Zovirax.
Another analyst agreed that Japan offered a notable expansion opportunity, saying: "It's obviously one of the leading growth markets for Glaxo."
But shares in Glaxo showed little response, falling a modest 3.5 pence to 950 in London.
Under the deal, Hiroshi Konishi, president of Nippon Glaxo, and Akira Konishi, vice-president and general manager, will give up these positions but remain members of Nippon Glaxo's board, Glaxo Wellcome said.
Nippon Glaxo had net assets at June 30 of 30.7 billion yen, or 180 million pounds. Its profits after tax for the six months ended June 30 were 2.5 billion yen.
($1=.5940 Pound)
($1=111.5 Yen)
Senate runoff elections on Friday and Saturday should have little impact on Czech capital markets, as investors focus on macroeconomic fundamentals rather than political influences.
Analysts said last weekend's first round of voting gave a mild boost to the Czech crown and the Prague Stock Exchange, and unless results from the second round of voting on Friday and Saturday vary greatly, little further movement should be seen.
"Provided that nothing drastic happens, it's pretty much a non-starter from a foreign investor point of view. I think that for the markets, it will be pretty much a non-event," Jay King, of Wood and Company, said on Thursday.
In last weekend's voting, Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's right-wing Civic Democratic Party (ODS) posted a strong result, capturing over 36.5 percent of the national vote, an increase of some six percent from June lower house elections where his coalition lost its majority.
The opposition Social Democrats (CSSD) were second with 20.3 percent. The rest of the vote was thinly split among coalition parties and the Communists.
Only 35 percent of the electorate voted in the elections.
Of the 81 Senate seats, the ODS won three outright in the first round and 76 of their candidates were to go into the runoff, compared with 48 for the CSSD. In 47 constituencies, the runoff is a straight fight between the two main parties.
Analysts said that with the two main parties assured of dominating the Senate, a body which will have limited powers anyway, little change appears imminent for the country's economic, or political course.
"Our expectation is ODS gaining somewhere around half of the total, and including the rest of the coalition it might be well over 50 seats. I don't think there should be any surprises," said Radek Maly, an economist at Citibank Prague.
Following last weekend's vote, the PSE, mired in a two month long slump began to edge higher, gaining some four percent over the week.
But dealers said the gains were based more on weak local buying than a change in sentiment from key foreign investors.
The crown too, ratcheted up slightly after the first round of voting, but has since steadied at 2.9 percent stronger than its dollar/mark basket midpoint.
Some analysts said foreign investors might be tempted, as they were the previous week, to play on a strong Klaus victory early on Monday, but any gain based on the political situation would be short lived.
"There may be some bias toward a stronger Czech crown," said Petr Korous, a dealer at Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka. "There's no other factor, more or less the basic impulse for that (a stronger crown) was really because of the elections, and then the subsequent recovery of the capital markets."
Citibank's Maly added: "I wouldn't foresee any major changes in the fixed income market. The fixed income market is rather less sensitive to these political events than is the FX (foreign exchange) market."
The world's biggest aluminium smelter, Russia's Bratsk plant, opposes any output-cutting schemes and wants to boost production and to compete better on world markets, a senior company official said on Thursday.
"Bratsk is an inveterate supporter of market-economy principles and not of schemes that violate such principles or of anti-monopoly laws," said Yuri Shlaifshtein, a Bratsk board member based in London who conducts corporate strategy and watches London Metal Exchange prices.
"Each company should choose the strategy best suiting it."
AOOT Bratsky Aluminievy Zavod (BrAZ), based in southern Siberia close to plentiful hydroelectric power, has already increased output of A7 higher-grade material to 69 percent of total production from 30 percent.
Shlaifshtein declined to provide production figures but said competitiveness abroad and at home were essential to Bratsk's long-term strategy.
An independent metals source who asked not to be named said Bratsk produced 62,800 tonnes of primary aluminium in October after 61,500 tonnes in September and 64,500 tonnes in August.
Bratsk's costs, already some of the lowest among Russian aluminium producers, are an average $1,250 per tonne of aluminium produced and transported to Rotterdam via St Petersburg, said Boris Arlyuk of the Alumconsult consultancy.
"Their production is pretty profitable," he said.
But Shlaifshtein said Bratsk was seeking to streamline costs even further and that a new, tough attitude to debtors by Russian tax officials could put flagging competitors in the European part of Russia out of business.
"Each factory should improve its economic situation and cost factors in order to be competitive on the market," he said.
Bratsk does not like to talk about a recently-ended global output-cutting deal which required Russian producers to cut back production to boost sagging world prices.
World prices are again flagging --- but Shlaifshtein said that this time, cutting output was not an option.
"The volume of output at the plant should change only on the basis of one's own strategic interests, of the overall economic situation and of the market situtaion," Shlaifshtein said.
He said it made economic sense for the plant to use its capacity, but gave no further details.
Bratsk, Russia's flagship aluminium smelter, wants to top its Soviet-era record output of 857,000 tonnes a year after 772,500 tonnes in 1995.
Its total capacity is at least 820,000 tonnes and possibly one million tonnes, according to Western industry sources.
Bratsk had already closed a unit for technological and environmental reasons by the time Russia, Canada, Australia, Norway, the United States and the European Union signed a two-year global output-cutting memorandum of understanding in March 1994. The deal expired this spring.
Bratsk produces most of its metal under tolling arrangements with London-based shareholder Trans-World Group, which has at least a 50 percent stake in the plant. --Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
Engineers are investigating the cause of an engine failure aboard a Cathay Pacific Airways Limited airliner on November 11 which forced return to Ho Chi Minh City on one engine, an airline spokesman said commenting on a report in Flight International.
The Airbus A330-300 and 132 passengers had reached 37,000 feet after take-off when one of its two Rolls Royce 700 engines suffered a suspected gearbox failure. The pilots could not restart the powerplant and decided to return to Ho Chi Minh City where the engine was removed and flown back to Hong Kong for a detailed inspection, the spokesman stated.
The suspect gearbox part has since been returned to the U.K. for detailed analysis, a Rolls Royce spokesman in Hong Kong said.
Cathay has a fleet of nine Airbus A330s which seat around 320 passengers and carry up to 17 tonnes of belly cargo on inter-Asian routes. A spokeswoman for Hong Kong Dragon Airlines known as Dragonair, in which Cathay holds a minority stake, operates 4 R-R powered A330s.
R-R is a long term supplier to Cathay and since the Trent 700 engine entered service with Cathay in February 1995, this is the second recorded inflight shutdown, the Cathay spokesman said.
Industry observers say aircraft engines are now so reliable that mechanical failures are extremely rare.
Intense rivalry for new engines, particularly for the next generation of the Boeing 747 family, exists between R-R and its U.S. competitors Pratt &amp; Whitney and General Electric s, the industry sources said. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
China said on Thursday the highest-level U.S. visit in two years had produced results and the task now was to push Sino-American ties forward.
Beijing made the upbeat assessment as U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher wound up a three-day visit by urging China to seize an historic opportunity to build a new era of cooperation.
"We believe this visit has produced results," Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai told reporters.
"Both sides believe that Sino-U.S. relations have improved in the last few months," he said. "Both sides believe it is necessary to maintain and develop this improving trend."
Christopher met Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Premier Li Peng and held lengthy discussions with Foreign Minister Qian Qichen during the visit.
One significant gain for Beijing was Washington's willingness to consider cooperation in nuclear technology despite lingering concerns over possible re-exports.
The United States and China signed an accord in 1985 for cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear technology. But before the accord can be fully implemented the U.S. president must certify to Congress that Beijing is not providing nuclear assistance to states with unsafeguarded facilities.
Concerns about assistance to countries such as Iran and Pakistan have long blocked China's access to the technology it wants to spur its nuclear power industry.
For its part, China agreed to regular meetings on arms proliferation, though Beijing made clear that as far as it was concerned, the main such issue is U.S. arms sales to Taiwan.
"This is the most important arms proliferation issue," Cui told reporters.
China views Taiwan as a renegade province and it used Christopher's visit to make the point it expects to see an eventual end to American arms sales to the island.
Washington insists these are two separate issues and it will continue to sell defensive weapons to Taiwan.
The foreign ministry spokesman also pointed to results on trade issues, particularly a broad agreement that China should join the World Trade Organisation as soon as possible.
But the two sides have different views over how that can be achieved. Beijing wants admission under the more favourable terms of a developing country while Washington insists the Chinese economy is too big for such treatment.
Cui played down other areas of disagreement -- such as human rights -- saying there were major differences between the two sides but these should not become obstacles to improving ties.
More high-level contacts were agreed on, though an announcement on summits was deferred, apparently until U.S. President Bill Clinton meets the Chinese president in Manila on Sunday.
Those talks could touch on possible dates for an exchange of visits by the two leaders.
An American airline has successfully completed a proving flight over Russian air space which the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said is an important milestone in the introduction of the Future Air Navigation System (FANS) on trans-Pacific routes.
The United Airlines Boeing 747-400 flight from Chicago to Tokyo's Narita airport on November 15 is expected to be followed by more pioneering trials over the next three weeks by Singapore Airlines, Japan Airlines and Cathay Pacific Airways Limited, said David Behrens, international programme officer of the FAA.
FANS, or Communication Navigation Surveillance/Air Traffic Management (CNS/ATM), is the next generation air traffic management system which uses satellite navigation for the more efficient use of air space.
"Aircraft which are FANS equipped will have the competitive edge with reduced costs all round. The technology will mean more direct routes, less fuel burned, more cargo carried, reduced air traffic controls costs, reduced errors and ground delays -- there is no turning back", David Behrens told this week's Asian Air Cargo Summit.
The U.S. was working towards a new bilateral agreement with Russia to develop air traffic control infrastructure in the Far East to open up air space to airlines flying between Asia and American cities such as New York, Chicago and Detroit.
"There have been a lot of problems in getting demonstration flights approved by the Russian authorities. The use of English which is the international language of the skies is still a major problem. This is another milestone in the development of FANS and the most successful proving flight to date although it is still early days," Behrens said.
Speaking after the conference Behrens said further advances are hoped for at the Informal Pacific Air Traffic Control Co-ordination Group meeting in Tokyo on January 20.
Airlines which have already invested in FANS cockpit technology are waiting on the go ahead for a new "fast track" routing across the central Pacific Ocean cutting up to an hour off journey times between Hong Kong or Taipei to San Francisco or Los Angeles. China Airlines, United Airlines and Cathay Pacific which is awaiting Hong Kong government approval to use FANS cockpit technology, could be the first airlines to benefit, Behrens said.
Korean Airlines, which has to make a big U-turn to avoid military training areas near North Korea air space, is also expected to make "huge savings" from FANS technology with a 40 minute saving on U.S. bound flights from Seoul when a new agreement with the North is signed, the FAA estimate.
Only about 70 Boeing 747-400 aircraft, the inter-continental workhorse of many airlines, are currently equipped with FANS avionics but that total is about to mushroom and all airliners will be FANS equipped by the year 2002, Behrens predicted. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017
Conrail Inc. and CSX Corp. so far have convinced the courts that their $8.6 billion merger plan should proceed, but they still need to win over unhappy shareholders who favour Norfolk Southern Corp.'s higher rival bid.
Lawyers and financial advisers were expected in the next few days to consider several plans aimed at persuading investors to approve a crucial measure needed for the deal.
Meanwhile, CSX said Thursday that its $110 cash tender offer for 19.9 percent of Conrail shares, which represents the first part of its plan to buy Conrail, was oversubscribed.
The proposed stock and cash transaction has angered many investors, who prefer an all-cash $10 billion offer by Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk, Va.
Philadelphia-based Conrail has rejected the Norfolk Southern offer of $110 a share, saying the union with CSX provides more strategic benefits.
But Norfolk Southern refused to give up, on Thursday extending its tender offer through midnight EST on Dec. 16. The offer had been set to expire Friday.
Norfolk Southern said earlier it would also continue to pursue its legal case seeking to block the planned merger.
CSX said that as of Thursday afternoon about 1.4 million Conrail shares had been tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to Norfolk Southern's offer.
Sources close to the companies said no final decision has been made about how to woo Conrail shareholders, but options include sweetening the stock portion of the deal or setting a "collar" to guard against price volatility.
They will also consider revising the deal's terms to accelerate payment to investors, according to the sources, who did not want to be identified.
The two companies could also decide to keep the terms unchanged, betting that shareholders will ultimately choose the CSX offer over Norfolk Southern's bid, which cannot be formally considered by Conrail until July.
"There's only one thing they can do and that's to sweeten the offer. I don't know how they're going to get enough votes if they don't," said Thom Brown, managing director at investment firm Rutherford, Brown &amp; Catherwood Inc., which holds some 50,000 shares of Conrail.
Richmond, Va.-based CSX and Conrail declined to comment on their plans but acknowledged last week they were discussing increasing the value of the pact upon its consummation.
Sources close to the companies said there is no rush to make a decision, noting that Conrail can easily postpone the shareholder vote that is now slated for mid-December.
CSX and Conrail won a significant victory this week when a U.S. District Court judge denied a request by Norfolk Southern to block the CSX-Conrail deal. An appeals panel also declined to block the first step of the deal.
Norfolk Southern, meanwhile, withdrew its motion for an expedited appeal of the federal court ruling that allowed CSX to buy the 19.9 percent stake in Conrail since the tender offer expired at midnight Wednesday.
But a Norfolk Southern attorney said the company will continue to pursue its legal case seeking to block the Conrail-CSX merger.
"We will continue with the litigation," attorney Steven Rothschild said.
A group of Conrail shareholders pursuing a lawsuit and appeal similar to Norfolk Southern's did not withdraw their motion for expedited appeal. The group urged the court Wednesday to hear an expedited appeal and "sterilize" the 19.9 percent Conrail stake by preventing CSX from voting it at a shareholders meeting needed for the merger to occur.
Because Pennsylvania corporate law prohibits a company from buying more than 20 percent of another company in a cash tender offer, shareholders will be asked in mid-December to approve a measure that would permit CSX to buy 40 percent.
The CSX-Conrail transaction calls for CSX to buy 40 percent of Conrail shares for $110 per share in cash and exchange the remaining 60 percent for CSX stock.
Sources close to the company said Conrail and CSX were well aware of the potential difficulties in winning the necessary votes.
Industry experts believe shareholders may be more willing to approve the 40 percent measure if they were guaranteed more favourable terms for the stock portion of the deal.
"They can't get the vote until they improve the back end of the deal and they know that," one takeover specialist said.
Meanwhile, Conrail stock tumbled, reflecting the expiration of CSX's tender offer. The stock fell $2.25 to $94.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Based on Thursday's stock price, the Conrail-CSX transaction values shares of Conrail at about $95.10 each. The stock portion of the deal would be exchanged at a value of about $85.15 for each Conrail share.
H&amp;R Block Inc. Thursday reported a big loss for the latest quarter, as its CompuServe online service posted a $58 million loss and became more of a headache to its parent.
H&amp;R Block had a net loss of $74.1 million, or 71 cents a share, in its second quarter ended Oct. 31, compared with a loss of $8.3 million, or 8 cents a share, in the 1995 quarter. Revenues grew to $253.4 million from $221.0 million.
Kansas City-based H&amp;R Block, the nation's largest tax preparation company, blamed the bad news mainly on losses at its CompuServe unit, the world's second-largest online service, which has failed to sign up new subscribers, especially in the United States.
H&amp;R Block still owns 80.1 percent of CompuServe, after selling the rest of the stock in April in an initial step to spin off the unit.
But plans to complete the spin-off were suspended in August after CompuServe reported poor first-quarter earnings and projected second-quarter losses.
Just nine months ago, shareholders and analysts were pushing for a spinoff, arguing that CompuServe's value was being held back by H&amp;R Block's staid tax business.
Now they want a spinoff because the online services provider is weighing on H&amp;R Block's performance.
"The business model changed for CompuServe in a fairly dramatic way and now CompuServe's valuation is clearly holding back H&amp;R Block's valuation," said Martin Romm, analyst at CS First Boston.
"How quickly things change," said Dennis Hudson, analyst at George K. Baum. "What happened was a whole lot of competition came in (to the online market.) The market became saturated before people expected."
Analysts said H&amp;R Block was waiting for CompuServe's new business strategy announced Thursday -- focusing on the corporate market rather than home users -- to push the unit toward profitability before the spinoff is completed.
H&amp;R Block also cut its quarterly dividend to 20 cents a share from 32 cents, a move that it had previously said would occur after the spinoff was completed.
"Even though the separation has not been completed, the board decided such action was prudent at this time because CompuServe is not adding to the company's profitability," said Frank Salizzoni, H&amp;R Block's president and chief executive officer and CompuServe's chairman.
"In taking this action today, the board is indicating it anticipates the separation of CompuServe."
Both Romm and Hudson said they continue to rate H&amp;R Block stock as a buy and stressed that there was nothing wrong with the company's core tax business.
The company said its Tax Services unit reported a pretax loss of $42.2 million in the second quarter, up $6.9 million a year ago.
"This year's deeper second quarter loss in these core businesses is in large part a result of the company's investments to expand its office network and roll out new products," Salizzoni said.
"They're making these investments primarily in new stores that are absorbing costs primarily without any commensurate contribution in revenue," Romm said, noting that the tax season does not begin until early next year.
H&amp;R Block stock fell 37.5 cents to $28 on the New York Stock Exchange. CompuServe lost 93.75 cents to $10.6875 on Nasdaq.
Television industry moguls crafting a ratings system should spell out sexual and violence content of shows, not rely solely on a system like the motion picture code, a survey of parents issued Thursday concluded.
The nationwide survey of 679 parents showed 80 percent preferred a system that specified the level of violence, sex or bad language rather than the age group for which a program is intended, as the motion picture industry's 28-year-old system does for movies.
The survey was a joint effort of the National Parent Teacher Association, the Institute for Mental Health Initiatives and University of Wisconsin researchers. It came as TV executives raced to complete a ratings system in the next month.
The executives favor an approach like the alphabetical code used by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) for movies. Individual networks would rate their shows.
But the survey sponsors -- along with Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass. -- want a system that covers content and viewer age.
"Parents want it all. They want every shred of information available about every program," said Markey, the author of a provision in the new communications law requiring TV makers to install a "V-chip" in all new sets. The device can be used with the upcoming ratings to let parents block shows they consider too violent or racy.
Markey told a news conference it would be "very unfortunate" if the TV industry ignored the survey results and did not incorporate the kind of system used by the Home Box Office cable-TV movie channel to rate its shows. Each HBO show is given a rating based on content such as "MV" for "mild violence" or "SC" for "strong sexual content."
Markey vowed the groups sponsoring the poll would "scream to the high heavens" if the TV ratings ignored program content.
MPAA President Jack Valenti, overseeing the ratings' creation, said his group welcomed all suggestions. "We are trying to devise a TV parental guidance system which will be family friendly, easy to understand, easy to use, and most of all grounded in honorable purposes so that parents can better monitor and supervise the TV watching of their children."
A few years ago, one company led the market for an exciting new technology called groupware, which enabled workers at different locations to use computers to collaborate on business projects.
But the rise of the Internet has changed all that, creating new opportunities for using such software more widely and setting the battleground for a clash for a share of one of the fastest-growing markets in the personal computer industry.
The market is driven by corporations' desire to use cheaper, easier-to-use Internet technologies to tie together far-flung and incompatible computing systems, a market some now estimate may reach $10 billion by the year 2000.
The trend has helped fuel the explosive growth of Netscape Communications Corp., which burst onto the public market in August 1995 and has been turning its focus to using Internet technologies in the lucrative corporate market for building the internal networks known as intranets.
Intranets use relatively inexpensive software to link together people across an organisation and allow access to information via a common interface, or browser.
Netscape's abrupt rise jolted software giant Microsoft Corp., which has been rushing to incorporate Internet technology throughout its products, and International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus Development Corp., which pioneered the groupware market with its Lotus Notes products.
At Comdex, the computer industry's largest trade show, all three companies have unveiled strategies aimed at attracting major corporate customers to their products.
Lotus, which is trying to revive its early lead with its Domino computer network software and a package of collaborative programmes like spreadsheets and word processors, promises to use IBM's deep pockets to fund its campaign.
The battle next year is expected to be even more intense than the skirmish last summer between Microsoft and Netscape over Microsoft's entry into the Web browser market, in which Netscape retains a nearly 80 percent stake.
"If they thought the browser war was bloody, just wait," Lotus President Jeff Papows said earlier this week. "This will be a whole new level of bloodiness."
Although Lotus has moved to add Internet features while slashing prices on its software for the Notes market, the roughly $700 million in research and development spending it touts is only a fraction of Microsoft's $2 billion-plus total research and development budget in fiscal 1997 alone.
And while Lotus officials privately say they would rather have the problem of reducing prices dramatically than having to build sophisticated corporate networke systems from scratch, new Internet technology offers compelling savings.
Netscape Chief Executive Jim Barksdale, in his keynote address at Comdex on Wednesday, identified some corporate customers who he said had reported up to 2063 percent return on investment by deploying intranets using Netscape products.
Microsoft Chief Executive Bill Gates said his company will focus its resources on lowering the cost of corporate computing this year with the same intensity it applied last year in adapting Internet technologies.
Analysts said that by bundling many of its Internet-based technologies with its latest operating systems, Microsoft may have an upper hand in releasing new products and with customers who are committed to remaining on the leading edge.
But even in the personal computing market where Microsoft's operating systems dominate, fewer than one-third of company machines run the latest versions of Microsoft Windows software needed to fully utilize its groupware features, they add.
"It's less a competition for (software) suite sales than it is for corporate dollars," said Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. analyst Mary Meeker, who sees two paths for corporate customers.
One set may chose to upgrade all its software to the latest Microsoft products, including Microsoft's newly launched Office 97 suite.
Meeker said this option is costly.
Another set of customers, Meeker said, could chose to keep their investment in existing computers and, using Netscape's products on the 17 different systems it supports, build a system combining these machines relatively quickly.
The growing business of doing business on the Internet poses a major challenge to tax collectors, but no special taxes should be imposed in cyberspace, the government said in report released Thursday.
"Treasury believes that these new technologies should not be used to justify new taxes," the Treasury Department draft report said. "Accordingly, Treasury is not considering any type of value added tax, 'bit tax,' or other new excise tax on electronic commerce."
Instead, the current system should evolve to tax income from all sources in a consistent manner, the department said.
"Our overall tax policy goal in this area should emulate policy in other areas -- maintain neutrality, fairness and simplicity -- a policy which serves to encourage all desirable economic activity new and old," the report said.
Businesses are already struggling with tax proposals from state and local governments, according to Kent Johnson, head of sales and transaction tax practice at KPMG Peat Marwick.
"State governments don't feel the same way as the federal government, but this report may be a good starting point for discussing all the issues," Johnson said.
This year, about $1 billion of goods and services will be sold online, growing to over $7 billion by the year 2000, according to market researchers at Jupiter Communications.
But the myriad tax laws and regulations affecting businesses may not keep pace with the fast-paced, often chaotic growth of the worldwide computer network.
Buyers and sellers on the Internet can be in different states or even different countries, complicating the task of collecting tax at the "source" of a transaction.
The department also said it was worried that tax evaders could use the anonymity provided by the Internet as a mask to avoid reporting income or to transfer money to offshore bank accounts.
But the report made no recommendations about how the government should deal with tax evasion issues. "Treasury intends to study, and requests comments on these issues," the report said.
The report is available on the Treasury's web site, http://www.ustreas.gov.
The report on taxation is likely to be followed by reports on other aspects of online commerce that the department is studying, including consumer protection, electronic money, bank regulation and law enforcement, officials said.
Just nine months ago, shareholders and analysts were pushing for H&amp;R Block Inc to spin off its CompuServe unit, arguing that the unit's value was being held back by H&amp;R Block's staid tax business.
On April 19, H&amp;R Block began that process with a public offering of about 20 percent of CompuServe Corp.
Analysts are still looking for the spinoff to be completed, but now the focus is on the sagging fortunes of the online service which is weighing on H&amp;R Block's performance.  
"The business model changed for CompuServe in a fairly dramatic way and now CompuServe's valuation is clearly holding back H&amp;R Block's valuation," said Martin Romm, analyst at CS First Boston.
On Thursday, H&amp;R Block reported a net loss for the fiscal 1997 second quarter of $74.1 million or $0.71 a share, compared to a loss of $8.3 million or $0.08 a share a year ago. Kansas City-based H&amp;R Block said the larger loss was primarily due to CompuServe's $58 million second quarter loss. H&amp;R Block still owns 80.1 percent of CompuServe.  
"How quickly things change," said Dennis Hudson, analyst at George K. Baum. "What happened was a whole lot of competition came in (to the online market.) The market became saturated before people expected."
In August, H&amp;R Block suspended the rest of the spinoff, citing CompuServe's performance and market conditions, among other factors.
Analysts said H&amp;R Block is waiting for implementation of CompuServe's newly announced business strategy -- focusing on business and professional users, rather than home users -- to push the company toward profits before completing the spinoff.  
H&amp;R Block also said Thursday it was reducing its quarterly dividend to $0.20 a share from $0.32, a move that it had previously said would occur after the spinoff was completed.
"The timing of (the dividend cut) was a little bit surprising," Romm said.
Both Romm and Hudson said they continued to rate H&amp;R Block stock as a buy and stressed that there was nothing wrong with the company's core tax business.
"I believe the company will have a very good tax season this year," Romm said, noting H&amp;R Block has made investments to grow the business. The company said its Tax Services unit reported a pre-tax loss of $42.2 million in the second quarter, up $6.9 million from a year ago.
"They're making these investments primarily in new stores that are absorbing costs primarily without any commensurate contribution in revenue," Romm said, noting that the tax season does not begin for more than a month.
H&amp;R Block stock was down 1/2 at 27-7/8 Thursday, after falling as low as 26-3/8 earlier in Thursday's session.
--Reuters Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787
Toronto stocks ended sharply lower on Thursday, pulled down by investor profit-taking and a sell-off in the heavily weighted gold issues.
The Toronto Stock Exchange key 300 Composite Index lost 43.9 points to end at 5922.2 points, after nearly touching the 6000-point level yesterday.
Ron Meisels, president of P &amp; C Holdings Ltd, said some profit-taking was justified after the 300 Index's bold move upward this month.
Investors sold off some holdings to reap profits since the closely-watched 300 Index gained more than five percent since the beginning of November, Meisels said.
Trading was heavy, with 124 million shares turned over worth C$1.85 billion (US$1.38 billion).
An equities trader agreed. "We could be in for a corrective phase here."
Other analysts have said a pull-back was possible.
Weak gold bullion prices exacerbated the situation, dragging Toronto's gold stocks down. London gold prices dropped to their lowest level in nearly two years after heavy selling forced it through a technical support level of US$377 an ounce to as low as C$375.70.
Banks stocks, which also enjoyed recent gains, suffered from profit-taking, the trader said.
Only three of Toronto's 14 sub-indices rose: conglomerates, oils and pipelines.
The gold sector lost nearly 2.9 percent today, followed lower by banks, transports and consumer products.
Declining stocks raced ahead of declining ones 593 to 395. Another 272 traded flat.
Among the hot stocks, gold prospector Bre-X Minerals Ltd. was in the spotlight again after days of turbulent activity. Shares rose C$1.10 to C$23.70 on more than 2.7 million shares as investors eyed a November 22 deadline for the settlement of an ownership dispute over a huge Indonesian gold discovery.
Toronto-Dominion Bank lost C$1.15 to C$36.75 in heavy turnover.
Barrick Gold Corp., the world's third largest gold producer, lost C$1.15 to hit C$36.75 on Thursday.
Conrail Inc. and CSX Corp. so far have convinced the courts that their $8.6 billion merger plan should proceed, but they still need to win over unhappy shareholders who favour Norfolk Southern Corp.'s higher bid.
Lawyers and financial advisors were expected in the next few days to consider several plans aimed at persuading investors to approve a crucial measure needed for the deal.
Meanwhile, CSX said Thursday that its $110 cash tender offer for 19.9 percent of Conrail shares, which represents the first part of its plan to buy Conrail, was oversubscribed.
The proposed stock and cash transaction has angered many investors, who prefer an all-cash $10 billion offer by Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk, Va.
Philadelphia-based Conrail has rejected the Norfolk Southern offer of $110 a share, saying the union with CSX provides more strategic benefits.
Sources close to the companies said no final decision has been made about how to woo Conrail shareholders, but options include sweetening the stock portion of the deal or setting a "collar" to guard against price volatility.
They will also consider revising the deal's terms to accelerate payment to investors, according to the sources, who did not want to be identified.
The two companies could also decide to keep the terms unchanged, betting that shareholders will ultimately choose the CSX offer over Norfolk Southern's offer, which cannot be formally considered by Conrail until July.
"There's only one thing they can do and that's to sweeten the offer. I don't know how they're going to get enough votes if they don't," said Thom Brown, managing director at investment firm Rutherford, Brown &amp; Catherwood Inc., which holds some 50,000 shares of Conrail.
Richmond, Va.-based CSX and Conrail declined to comment on their plans, but acknowledged last week they were discussing increasing the value of the pact upon its consummation.
Sources close to the companies said there is no rush to make a decision, noting that Conrail can easily postpone the shareholder vote that is now slated for mid-December.
CSX and Conrail won a significant victory this week when a U.S. district court judge denied a request by Norfolk Southern to block the CSX-Conrail deal. An appeals panel also declined to block the first step of the deal.
Norfolk Southern, meanwhile, withdrew its motion for an expedited appeal of the federal court ruling that allowed CSX to buy the 19.9 percent stake in Conrail, since the tender offer expired at midnight on Wednesday.
But a group of Conrail shareholders pursuing a lawsuit and appeal similar to Norfolk Southern's did not withdraw their motion for expedited appeal. The group urged the court on Wednesday to hear an expedited appeal and "sterlize" the 19.9 percent Conrail stake by preventing CSX from voting it at a shareholders meeting needed for the merger to occur.
Because Pennsylvania corporate law prohibits a company from buying more than 20 percent of another company in a cash tender offer, shareholders will be asked in mid-December to approve a measure that would permit CSX to buy 40 percent.
The CSX-Conrail transaction calls for CSX to buy 40 percent of Conrail shares for $110 per share in cash and exchange the remaining 60 percent for CSX stock.
Sources close to the company said Conrail and CSX were well aware of the potential difficulties in winning the necessary votes.
Industry experts believe shareholders may be more willing to approve the 40 percent measure if they were guaranteed more favourable terms for the stock portion of the deal.
"They can't get the vote until they improve the back-end of the deal and they know that," one takeover specialist said.
Meanwhile, Conrail stock tumbled, reflecting the expiration of CSX's tender offer. The stock fell $2.25 to $94.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Based on Thursday's stock price, the Conrail-CSX transaction values shares of Conrail at about $95.10 each. The stock portion of the deal would be exchanged at a value of about $85.15 for each Conrail share.
Conrail Inc. and CSX Corp. so far have convinced the courts that their $8.65 billion merger plan should proceed, but they still need to win over unhappy shareholders who favour Norfolk Southern Corp.'s larger bid.
Lawyers and financial advisors were expected in the next few days to consider several plans aimed at persuading investors to approve a crucial measure needed for the deal.
Meanwhile, CSX said Thursday that its $110 cash tender offer for 19.9 percent of Conrail shares, which represents the first part of its plan to buy Conrail, was oversubscribed.
The proposed stock and cash transaction has angered many investors, who prefer an all-cash $10 billion offer by Norfolk Southern, based in Norfolk, Va.
Philadelphia-based Conrail has rejected the Norfolk Southern offer of $110 a share, saying the union with CSX provides more strategic benefits.
Sources close to the companies said no final decision has been made about how to woo Conrail shareholders, but options include sweetening the stock portion of the deal or setting a "collar" to guard against price volatility.
They will also consider revising the deal's terms to accelerate payment to investors, according to the sources, who did not want to be identified.
The two companies could also decide to keep the terms unchanged, betting that shareholders will ultimately choose the CSX offer over Norfolk Southern's offer, which cannot be formally considered by Conrail until July.
"There's only one thing they can do and that's to sweeten the offer. I don't know how they're going to get enough votes if they don't," said Thom Brown, managing director at investment firm Rutherford, Brown &amp; Catherwood Inc., which holds some 50,000 shares of Conrail.
Richmond, Va.-based CSX and Conrail declined to comment on their plans, but acknowledged last week that they are discussing increasing the value of the pact upon its consummation.
Sources close to the companies said there is no rush to make a decision, noting that Conrail can easily postpone the shareholder vote that is now slated for mid-December.
CSX and Conrail won a significant victory this week when a U.S. district court judge denied a request by Norfolk Southern to block the CSX-Conrail proposal. An appeals panel also declined to block the deal's first step, but will consider Norfolk Southern's request for an expedited appeal.
Because Pennsylvania corporate law prohibits a company from buying more than 20 percent of another company in a cash tender offer, shareholders will be asked in mid-December to approve a measure that would permit CSX to buy 40 percent.
The CSX-Conrail transaction calls for CSX to buy 40 percent of Conrail shares for $110 per share in cash and exchange the remaining 60 percent for CSX stock.
Sources close to the company said Conrail and CSX were well aware of the potential difficulties in winning the necessary votes.
Industry experts believe shareholders may be more willing to approve the 40 percent measure if they are guaranteed more favourable terms for the stock portion of the deal.
"They can't get the vote until they improve the back-end of the deal and they know that," one takeover specialist said.
Meanwhile, Conrail stock fell sharply on the New York Stock Exchange, reflecting the expiration of CSX's cash tender offer for the first 20 percent of Conrail's shares at $110 per share. Shares of Conrail fell $2.375 to $94.50.
Based on Thursday's stock price, the Conrail-CSX transaction values shares of Conrail at about $95.10 each. The stock portion of the deal would be exchanged at a value of about $85.15 for each Conrail share.
British supermarket chain Safeway, known for cute kid adverts and innovative technology, turned in a seven percent rise in half year profits on Thursday and said sales were rising with hopes of a cheery Christmas.
"I am positive about Christmas, there are some good statistics on retail generally...I would hope that (consumers) would have more confidence to spend," chief executive Colin Smith said in an interview.
The company announced plans to open 450,000 square feet (41,810 sq metres) of extra space, or about 18 stores, in the next two years, which will generate about 5,200 jobs.
But with the company's profits and dividend coming in towards the lower end of expectations, Safeway shares reversed a recent trend to slip to a low of 362 pence, down nine, before recovering to 370 by 1150 GMT,
Safeway checked in half year pretax profits of 228.2 million pounds ($383.5 million), compared with forecasts of between 228 and 231 million. It paid a dividend of 4.4 pence, up from 4.05 pence and within forecasts of 4.4 to 4.6 pence per share.
The company, which completed its "Safeway 2000" strategic review in the summer aimed at boosting sales and cutting costs, said sales from existing stores were up five percent in the first five weeks of the second half.
That followed a 5.1 percent gain in the first half, including price inflation of 2.6 percent.
"Our strategy to attract more family shoppers to our stores is succeeding and this success is reflected in sales growth which is outperforming the industry average," the company said.
But Smith said the sector was "very competitive...and margins at the moment are slightly down."
Supermarkets are attempting to steer clear of an all-out price war by relying on marketing initiatives such as loyalty cards and customer service to boost sales, but pricing remains a key element.
In the first half, a fierce petrol price war hit profitability in Safeway's petrol forecourts to the tune of 10 million pounds, but Smith said he hoped this would not impact on the second half.
Gross margins have run slightly down on a year ago in the first half and start of the second half, Safeway said, driven by "our immediate and vigorous response to a number of significant marketing and pricing initiatives launched by our competitors."
But net margins were stable in the first half at 6.9 percent as productivity gains and efficiency improvements helped.
The supermarket chain plans to extend its innovative self-scan shopping, where customers track and total their own shopping to avoid queueing at checkouts. The scheme will be added at 50 stores on top of the current 100.
Smith said the company would continue to focus on the family shopper and the large family weekly shop to boost sales.
"Increasing efficiencies mean we can be a low cost operator...which allows us to afford to reinvest in being competitive." ($1=.5950 Pound)
The UK construction industry expects to get the cold shoulder from the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Finance Minister)again this year, with industry leaders predicting continued cutbacks in infrastructure spending in next Tuesday's budget.
Building industry leaders say they expect no more than a few crumbs from Chancellor Kenneth Clarke next week and are forecasting even more pressure on roads spending, with some rumours that Clarke will take a further slice off the road budget this year.
"If ever there was going to be a budget with severe cuts, it's this one, which needs to make room for pre-election tax cuts," said Graham Watts, chief executive of industry lobby group the Construction Industry Council.
As far as the housing market goes, builders are unanimous in their call for no sharp shocks to disturb the market's equilibrium. That means steady inflation and interest rates, plus no more reduction in mortgage interest tax relief, groups like the Building Employers Federation say.
On the spending side, The British Road Federation, embracing builders, motor groups and oil companies, said the road budget had been cut by 25 percent in the last two years.
"We expect to see a further contraction by 200 million pounds ($337 million)," said Federation spokesman Mark Glover "It's already been cut for the last four years."
Spending on new roads and maintenance by government offshoot the Highways Agency was 2.04 billion pounds in 1994/95, falling to 1.75 billion pounds in 1995/96 and is expected to be down to 1.5 billion this financial year.
The forecast for the year 1997/98 is seen dipping again.
These cutbacks, plus reduced state investment in rail since privatisation, and the fact that hospitals are now under constrained regional budgets, have resulted in the building industry remaining in recession years after the rest of the economy moved into recovery, lobbyists claim.
Few industry leaders hope for a spending increase, but they would like to see a spending freeze at best.
The other issue on the construction industry's wish-list is for the Chancellor to break the log-jam holding up the private finance initiative (PFI) -- which aims to get private capital flowing into public sector projects.
The PFI has replaced a lot of fresh government spending, but the frequent hold-ups to project awards due to red-tape have
Britain's independent brewers on Thursday pressed for a cut in the excise duty on beer ahead of Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke's budget statement on November 26.
The brewers are lobbying hard this time round, after Clarke's previous budget cut the duty on Scotch whisky for the first time since 1895, while leaving the rates on beer and wine unchanged. The duty on beer was raised by 2p a pint in 1994.
"Increasing excise duty over a period...has inevitably increased the divergence with our European partners. The single market demands a single fiscal policy and a uniform excise duty," said a letter to the Times newspaper from the chairman of the Independent Family Brewers of Britain.
The letter said the group would deliver a petition to the European parliament, asking for the European Commission to take into account the wide differences in excise duty between EU member states on alcoholic drinks and beer in particular.
The Brewers and Licensed Retailers Association (BLRA) are arguing that a 20 percent cut in the beer duty, equivalent to knocking 6p off a pint, would lower inflation, help boost government revenue and discourage illegal cross-border shopping.
Oxford Economic Forecasting researcher Adrian Cooper used the Treasury's own economic model to argue that a 20 percent cut in beer duty would mean lower inflation, more jobs and in the second year of a duty cut more money for the Exchequer.
British duty on a pint of five percent alcohol by volume is 30 pence. In France, it is just four pence, encouraging people to buy their beer in mainland Europe.
The total volume of duty paid beer flooding into the country is estimated by the BLRA to be about 4-1/2 percent of the total beer market. Over half of this is for illegal resale.
The Scotch Whisky Association estimates the government has received 2.0 million stg more in revenue from the industry as a result of the last cut in the whisky duty. It says the reduction has also fed through into lower prices for consumers.
Before last year's budget, a typical bottle of blended whisky costing 10.70 pounds ($18.01) about 67 percent went in tax, with duty at 5.55 pounds a bottle and value added tax at 1.59 pounds.
Since last year's cut in duty, average prices per bottle have fallen to 9.85 pounds for on supermarket own labels, although the price of brands has risen slightly. The Association is pressing for another four percent off duty paid on a bottle.
Britain's tobacco industry wants a freeze on duty, arguing the government is losing revenue because the tax is so high compared with central Europe, that smuggling is rife.
"We would certainly like to see a freeze this year because we are so far out of sight of the rest of Europe that it's causing a major smuggling problem," said Clive Turner, media relations at the Tobacco Council. "The government is currently missing out on 640 million a year in lost revenue," he said.
A 50 gram pack of rolling tobacco normally costs about 7.47 stg in Britain but can be bought in Belguim for slightly under 2.0 stg. The Tobacco Council estimate 68 percent of all hand rolling tobacco sold in Britain comes from mainland Europe and some 62 percent of that is smuggled across.
In his last budget statement Clarke, left the duty paid on hand rolling tabacco unchannged but raised thaty on cigarettes by 15 pence per pack. Cigarettes currently retail for around 2.95 pounds.
In the 1993 budget, Clarke pledged to raise tobacco tax on average by the rate of inflation plus at least three percent in future budgets. Last year's rise was equivalent to the rate of inflation plus seven percent. ($1=.5940 Stg)
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke could cut tax credits on dividends in a "robbing Peter to pay Paul" measure which would help fund widely expected cuts in income tax in his budget speech next Tuesday.
Roger Bootle, group chief economist at HSBC Markets, thinks Clarke may well see pension funds as one target to provide him with some resources to distribute elsewhere.
From a tax credit reduction to 15 percent from 20 percent, "the sufferers would be tax-exempt pension funds and higher rate tax payers with dividend income," Bootle said on Thursday.
Accountancy firm Coopers &amp; Lybrand, in its survey of budget options, says such a measure could save the Inland Revenue around 1.0 billion pounds ($1.68 billion) a year, although this would take some time to come through.
But Coopers point out that such a move would act against the Government's long-term objective of encouraging increased private savings provision and might turn out to be a burden on the corporate sector if institutional shareholders press companies to compensate by raising gross dividend payouts.
Bootle raises another negative aspect.
"It would not necessarily be popular either," he says. "It would probably cause the equity market to fall and might well be described in the press as "Mr Clarke raids your pension - to give you an income tax cut'."
Clarke has already removed the tax credit on targeted share buy-backs and special dividends associated with share consolidations and take-overs.
Most economists expect no change in the basic structure of Corporation Tax itself, although Coopers say the Chancellor might introduce some minor measures to aid small business and entrepreneurs.
But they are not so confident that the profit-related pay scheme, first introduced in 1987, will survive the budget unscathed.
Under the scheme, employees get relief at their marginal rate of tax on 20 percent of their salary up to a maximum of 4,000 stg and the benfits are linked to the company reaching profit goals agreed with the Revenue.
Estimates vary on how many employees are in the scheme from 3.5 to 4.5 million, but accountancy firm Ernst &amp; Young says it is costing the Government some 1.5 billion pounds annually in lost revenue and rising.
There also seems to be a measure of agreement on the idea that the scheme does not really link employees' pay to profitability since some companies guarantee no reduction in final salary if profits disappoint.
Outright abolition of PRP is thought unlikely given it is firmly entrenched in many pay structures and would again put pressure on companies to make up the difference and so economists see Clarke possibly limiting the relief to the lower 20 percent rate of income tax.
BZW economists say this could raise some 700 million pounds. ($1=.5950 Pound)
Netscape Communications Corp. President Jim Barksdale Wednesday unveiled new software that will allow users to receive personalized information anywhere on a computer network.
The new software, code-named Constellation, will also allow users to merge and customize information on computer desktops and networks, posing a fresh challenge to archrival Microsoft Corp..
In a keynote speech at the annual Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas, Barksdale described Constellation -- due for release in mid-1997 -- as part of an Internet "third wave" of information that can be displayed according to individual preferences.
"While the first waves of the Internet focused on users being able to easily find information, the mark of this third wave is that information finds the user," he said. "Our new products will have the intelligence to help you focus on the information you care about."
Constellation, which will be part of Netscape's next-generation Netscape Communicator corporate software, will allow users to log on or off computers throughout a network -- or even across the Internet -- and see a computer desktop with the user's personal setup.
This "roaming" capability, like using mobile telephones in cities outside one's home base, can free people to work in different locations using the same basic tools and calling up application software such as spreadsheets and word processors.
That provides a different approach than the one used currently by Microsoft, which requires computer makers using its Windows operating systems, for example, to show the Windows logo first.
Although Microsoft has moved aggressively over the last 11 months into the Internet market, and produces a rival browser called Internet Explorer, Netscape has so far retained the leading role in the browser market.
Microsoft, however, holds 90 percent of the market for the operating systems that run computers.
Barksdale said that with 48 million copies of Netscape's browser software sold, it is the most popular application ever, and he said recent data shows Netscape with 78 percent of all browsers.
Contrary to speculation since Netscape's red-hot stock offering in August 1995 that it would one day compete with Microsoft in operating systems, company executives said Netscape was deliberately focusing on the ability to work across some 17 different operating systems instead.
"Constellation is not an operating systems, but is a new user interface," Netscape Senior Vice President Mike Homer told reporters.
Although Netscape executives acknowledged there was some difficulty in making its software run on some environments, such as Windows 3.1, the company was succeeding and committed to continuing to support a variety of operating systems.
Analysts have said this is a major distinction from Microsoft, which earlier used the Comdex show to unveil a new operating system for hand-held computers, Windows CE, and its new Office 97 software package.
Although Microsoft demonstrated powerful features and Web capabilities for its new Office package, analysts said companies would only get the full benefit of it if they chose to deploy it throughout departments or the company.
The problem of distributing information to individuals in the fast-growing Internet, with its tens of millions of sites, has increasingly captured the attention of Silicon Valley's sharpest engineers.
Two start-up companies widely regarded in this area -- Marimba Inc. and PointCast Inc.'s PointCast Network -- will have their products integrated into Constellation, Netscape said.
Softbank Chief Executive Officer Masahoshi Son said the company will focus over the next year or two on growing its businesses organically and on preparing for the launch of JSkyB.  
"For the next couple of years -- a year or two -- we will focus more on growing what we have already acquired and also prepare for JSkyB launch. That's my focus," he told Reuters in an interview at the Comdex industry trade show here.
Son also said the company has completed commitments to 51 Internet startup companies from its venture capital fund which totalled $350 million, including some $170 million from investment partners and the remainder from Softbank itself.
Softbank in the summer launched a 50-50 joint venture with Rupert Murdoch's News Corp in a digital satellite system known as Japan Sky Broadcasting, or JSkyB. The two in June acquired 21.4 percent of Asahi National Broadcasting of Japan.  
Through a string of bold investments, Softbank has become the world's largest computer-related magazine and book publisher and the largest producer of high tech exhibitions and trade shows. It is also Japan's largest computer software, peripherals and systems distributor.
Son's comments mark at least a temporary halt to a buying spree which culminated in the purchase in September of an 80 percent stake in Kingston Technology Corp, a leading supplier of memory modules, for cash and stock worth some $1.5 billion.
Within the past year, Softbank closed on the $2.1 billion acquisition of Ziff-Davis Publishing, and last year it spent some $800 million for the Interface Group, whose trade show portfolio includes Comdex, the largest U.S. trade show.
"After the launch of JSkyB, and after we have good enough management infrastructure for the synergy that we create in the U.S., then we would do a lot more things," he said of the prospects for further major acquisitions.
On the venture funding front, Son said the 51 venture investments his company has led over the past nine months put it at the top ranks of recent Internet venture investment.  
"We became very quickly an important player in the venture capital market," he told Reuters, adding that Softbank was able to rely on assistance from its various operating firms.
"They helped in identifying the startup companies on the Internet, and identifying which one is the good one and the winning horses," he said.
Furthermore he said startup companies, such as the branded Internet media company Yahoo! Inc, have been able to benefit operationally from Softbank as well as financially.
Softbank took a 35 percent stake in Yahoo! and established Yahoo! Japan, in which Softbank retained a 65 percent stake. This is just one of a series of rapid moves by Yahoo! which has extended its brand from its original role as a search engine to find information on the Internet.
"Yahoo Japan was established in February this year and started service April 1," Son said. "Only two months, from scratch, and it has been profitable from the first month of operations and every month it is profitable."
In the Internet area, where many startups produce steady streams of red ink as they attempt to grow their business as rapidly as possible, Son said he considers the joint venture's profits to be somewhat of a record-breaking achievement.  
Yahoo Inc went public on the Nasdaq market in April.
A little more than a dozen of the investments by the $350 million venture fund have yet to be completed, he said, and Softbank is likely to form an additional investment fund as early as next year. Son, however, declined to elaborate.
Internet service companies, such as Yahoo!, and Internet content companies are likely to be the smallest but fastest growing opportunities for investment, he added.
Softbank recently reported first half pre-tax profit for the six months to the end of September rose 77 percent to $78.1 million as revenue grew 46.1 percent to $804.3 million, against a pre-tax profit of $43.9 million on $550.4 million of revenues for the year-earlier period.
Son spoke after he and other senior Softbank executives made a presentation to media and industry analysts at a briefing at the annual Comdex show.
-- sam.perry@reuters.com, Palo Alto Bureau +1415 846 5400
The Czech crown firmed from the central bank fixing on Thursday, building on gains after a strong showing by the senior coalition party in Senate elections last weekend and prospects for the second round vote.
Analysts said Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's pro-business Civic Democratic Party (ODS) was expected to take a majority of the 81 seats in the newly-created Senate after runoff elections this weekend, and that should keep the crown firm.
The crown was trading in mid-afternoon on Thursday at 26.661 to the dollar and 17.757 to the mark, or 3.05 percent above the Czech National Bank's dollar/mark basket.
"Mostly the expectations are that the ODS will win a majority in the Senate, which I think is fairly likely," Citibank economist Radek Maly said.
The ODS won three seats outright last Saturday and has 76 candidates through to the runoff on Friday and Saturday in the 77 constituencies remaining to be contested.
The crown, despite a ballooning trade deficit, has remained well above parity with the basket and has continued to strengthen this week from last Friday's level of +2.45 percent.
Maly said he saw the currency staying close to Thursday's levels and then getting a possible further bump up on Monday.
"I would personally see this level until the vote...Perhaps Monday, we will see a similar situation -- a quick strengthening, a quick speculative reaction," he said.
Petr Korous, a dealer at Ceskovslovenska Obchodni Banka, said despite voter turnout of only 35 percent in the first round of the elections, the market was still firming on the ODS showing.
"There will be some bias toward a stronger Czech crown," he said. "More or less, the basic impulse for that is really because of the elections and then, the subsequent recovery of the capital markets."
The Senate has limited political power, but the vote would at least confirm that ODS had not suffered a further loss of confidence after the coaltion saw its majority in the more powerful lower house evaporate in June general elections.
This week, the Prague Stock Exchange has shown its first signs of life since the summer, while fixed income and crown deposit investors are getting more confident that Klaus's tight fiscal and monetary policies will not be threatened.
"Those who want to play the interest rate differential (with foreign currencies) feel quite comfortable right now," Korous said.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Sierra Semiconductor Corp.'s stock jumped more than 27 percent Thursday on expectations the company will emerge as a smaller but more profitable operation after it exits the computer modem business.
The San Jose, Calif.-based company's stock gained after its announcement Wednesday that it plans to pull out of the highly competitive modem-chip business and focus instead on the fast-growing market for computer networking equipment.
The stock rose $2.625 to $11.875 in late trading on NASDAQ.
"Certainly the company will be a much smaller company now, but it will be a more profitable business," said analyst Elias Moosa of Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
But analysts noted that Sierra still has much painful work ahead of it, including cutting as many as 150 jobs from its work force, which currently has 500 people, and building up the business of its PMC-Sierra unit, which makes routing devices and chipsets for high-speed computer networks.
The company has announced plans to take a charge against earnings of $50 million to $80 million to write down the value of assets and inventories and cover severance payments.
Scott Randall of Soundview Financial Group said the company likely would have difficulty selling its modem-chip business.
"Once you announce your intention to exit a business, it becomes a complete buyer's market," he said.
He said that while the company is focusing on the fastest-growing part of its business, the market for networking chips has begun to attract the attention of much-larger players such as International Business Machines Corp
"As the market develops the question is, are they able to make that transition to be a much larger company?" Randall said.
Other analysts were more bullish, even though the company is expected to shrink to slightly more than half its current size in sales.
"It's a positive strategic move," said Miles Kan of Hambrecht &amp; Quist. "The modem business is a low-margin, commodity business," he said.
Sierra's PMC-Sierra unit generated $33 million of the company's $117 million in sales in the first half of the year, compared with $45 million in sales of modem chips, Kan said. But the PMC unit is far more profitable, he said.
Sierra's stock has fallen from a high of nearly $25 this year as the computer chip sector has been battered by falling prices and concern about slowing demand.
A Chinese plan for 6,000 People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops to march into Hong Kong the very minute Britain hands the colony back to China in 1997 would send the world a bad signal, diplomats said on Thursday.
The Financial Times of London reported that China had told Britain it intends to march 6,000 troops across the border into Hong Kong when Beijing takes over at midnight next June 30.
Bill Dickson, a spokesman for the Foreign Office mission in Hong Kong, told Reuters that China had announced no such plan to the British side in ongoing handover negotiations.
"Although we've been discussing the transfer of defence responsibilities with the Chinese and are of course discussing arrangements for the handover ceremony itself, the Chinese have not told us of their plans for moving defence forces into Hong Kong after midnight on the first of July," Dickson said.
"This is a matter which is entirely for them, but if reports such as that in the Financial Times are true, then the question arises whether this sort of display of military force conveys the right message to the rest of the world," he said.
In Beijing, China said it would station troops in Hong Kong after it regained sovereignty next year, but the number would depend on defence requirements.
"The central government will send an appropriate number of troops into Hong Kong" after the transfer of power next year, Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai said.
"The actual number will be based on the defence needs of Hong Kong," Cui told reporters, without saying when the troops would be moved into the territory.
Diplomats in Hong Kong, who asked not to be identified, said the plan outlined in the newspaper report seemed very credible given China's hardline stance on many handover-related issues.
"We have made it absolutely clear to the Chinese that it would be far better, if they want to send the right signal, if they would build up their armed forces in Hong Kong in a gradual way, over a period of time," one British source said.
"Of course we got no response," the source said.
"This would be exactly the kind of thing to send a shiver down Hong Kong's spine, and would raise questions about China's commitment to a smooth transition," a Western diplomat said.
Hong Kong is switching back to the Chinese flag after a century and a half as a colony on China's southern doorstep.
The approaching handover has been frought with jitters. Many of the territory's 6.3 million people fear a crackdown against human rights, democracy and press freedom, as well as possible trouble with the PLA soldiers, after the transfer.
For most people in Hong Kong, the PLA conjures up images of the bloody military crackdown that was unleashed, with heavy loss of life, against the student-led pro-democracy movement in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in June 1989.
Britain and China have been sparring lately in handover negotiations over whether or not a PLA advance party in Hong Kong can carry weapons before the handover.
Also disputed is whether PLA garrison soldiers should be put on trial in Hong Kong courts if they commit crimes in the territory.
Under a proposed law drawn up unilaterally by China, the PLA troops would be tried in military courts on the mainland, not civilian courts in Hong Kong.
China on Thursday tried to play down friction with the United States over a rising trade gap and called on the U.S. to end curbs on technology exports to put trade back in balance.
"The two sides should avoid taking actions that do not help the expansion of trade," said a spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
"These are two of the biggest markets in the world," he said. "They should be complementary."
The United States said on Wednesday its trade deficit with China climbed to nearly $29 billion in the first nine months of the year, from $25 billion in the same period last year.
The trade gap, already the second largest for the U.S. after its deficit with Japan, was seen reaching $40 billion by the end of the year, up from $34 billion in 1995.
American economists said the mounting deficit was likely to create new frictions between the two countries.
U.S. Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor said the growth in the deficit with China had slowed, but he called on Beijing to live up to its international trade obligations.
A group of influential U.S. senators, in a letter to President Bill Clinton, questioned Beijing's trade practices and said China should not be allowed to join the World Trade Organisation on special terms because it would harm American economic interests.
Beijing has been seeking to join the global trade body on favourable terms given to developing nations, but Washington has insisted that China's economy was too big for this treatment.
The Chinese Trade Ministry spokesman said Washington's policy curbs on U.S. exports were part of the bilateral trade problem. "There are policy rulings that are holding back U.S. exports," he said. "Where there are limits on technology exports, this is a lost export opportunity for the United States."
The U.S. appeared to be moving to address this matter.
On Wednesday, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Washington was considering allowing technical cooperation in peaceful uses of nuclear technology despite concerns about safeguards over re-exports.
Christopher, after meeting with Chinese leaders in Beijing, said the U.S. was looking at taking steps that eventually could allow American companies to sell their technology to China.
A Chinese economist suggested some of the criticism over trade was unfairly directed at China as U.S. imports were mainly labour intensive products that were not manufactured in the United States.
"If the U.S. does not buy these products from China it will buy them elsewhere," said Wang Jian, an economist with the State Planning Commission. "These are goods produced by developing countries."
But the economist conceded that bilateral trade problems could spill over into broader trade issues.
"The U.S. already is the main obstacle to China's plan to join the World Trade Organisation," he said, adding that renewed Sino-U.S. trade friction could further complicate the issue.
The Communist Party chief in Tibet has vowed to boost patriotic education in the Himalayan region to battle foreign forces hostile to China and the influence of the exiled spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama.
Patriotic education would be an important factor in battling hostile Western forces that sought to create chaos in Tibet, the Tibet Daily said in an edition seen in Beijing on Thursday.
"Unflaggingly carrying out patriotic education...and opposing the ideologicial infiltration of hostile Western forces and the Dalai Lama clique is an arduous and prominent task," the November 12 edition of the newspaper said, quoting party secretary Chen Kuiyuan.
Combatting the influence of Beijing's chief rival for Tibetan loyalties, the Dalai Lama, was a pressing task for the restive region, Chen said.
Chen accused Western media of spreading the Dalai Lama's plots to split Tibet from China.
"The struggle against 'westernisation' and 'splitting up' is present at every moment and will be present for a long time to come," he said.
Beijing suspects the West is playing the Tibet card to weaken, divide and contain China.
Ideological education was needed to fight religious thinking and separatist ideas that had penetrated Tibetan schools and threatened to gain control of the region's youth, Chen said.
"Teaching cadres, the masses and broad numbers of youth to passionately love the motherland and passionately love socialism is the primary task of ideological construction," Chen said.
Chen's speech appeared a day after the newspaper called for tighter controls on religion in Tibet and vowed to crack down on pro-independence monks and nuns.
The Dalai Lama, who fled his Himalayan homeland in 1959 after a failed uprising against communist rule, had draped himself in the cloak of religion to further his splittist aims, Chen said.
The Dalai Lama, widely revered in his homeland as a god-king, won the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize for his non-violent struggle for autonomy for Tibet.
Chen said temples would be the battlefields in the fight against the Dalai Lama. He did not elaborate.
Beijing has repeatedly cracked down on monks and nuns in the deeply devout Buddhist region and accused the clergy of playing a major role in an underground Tibetan campaign against communist rule.
Tibet has been rocked by anti-Chinese protests by monks and nuns since the 1980s. Communist troops marched into Tibet in 1950.
The London-based watchdog group Tibet Information Network reported earlier this week that a jailed Tibetan nun had had her sentence doubled to 18 years for defying Beijing's choice of the reincarnation of the region's second holiest monk.
The party boss also warned that superstitious beliefs had made a recent comeback in the region because the Dalai Lama had used religion to drug the people.
Ugly religious practices had appeared again in wedding and funeral ceremonies and other aspects of social life, Chen said.
Religion had even taken root among some government officials and threatened to hinder the economic development of the backward and remote region, Chen said.
"These negative ideas and actions block the spread of science and technology and hinder the development of productive forces," he said.
Copper stored in Shanghai warehouses -- the murky ownership of which has cast a pall of concern over the world market -- is being offered in small lots to European trading houses, industry sources said on Thursday.
The copper is been offered for sale at a high premium in order to set a benchmark price for its eventual sale to China's strategic stockpile, one Chinese trader said.
Traders said that estimates of copper reserves brought into China in recent months range between 100,000 and 150,000 tonnes. A European trader in Beijing said he had been offered copper by the China National Non-ferrous Metals Import and Export Corp (CNIEC) at around $2,100 a tonne -- a level reflecting the London Metal Exchange (LME) cash price plus a premium of $130.
CNIEC has declined to comment on the market talk.
The copper was said to be owned by Chinese trading firms which had shipped it to Shanghai in the expectation that the central stockpile would buy this amount to square its position on metal previously lent to the market, before the end of 1996. "They are hoping that it is the right tonnage in the right place, but as far as we know, the stockpile has so far not confirmed they will buy it," a Chinese trader with a state-owned Chinese firm, said.
Traders said last week the copper probably belonged to China's state reserve, which lent around 85,000 tonnes of copper, through CNIEC, onto the LME between April and June 1995.
In March this year, CNIEC's former president Fang Dachang said China was likely to take it back in the fourth quarter.
But when copper began to move back to China in June and July, from LME warehouses in Rotterdam, Singapore and Long Beach, California traders assumed the central reserve was taking the copper back earlier than planned.
Not so, said the Chinese trader, though he added: "Who owns it is anyone's guess."
The metal was taken from LME warehouses at about $2,400 a tonne, a Hong Kong trader said, with the price set before three month LME copper prices slid below $1,800 on news in June of $1.8 billion in copper trading losses by Japan's Sumitomo Corp.
Three month copper was indicated at $1,942/45 a tonne in late LME trade on Wednesday.
"It (the copper) has been sitting there for a couple of months, so someone has to pick up the loss," a trader said.
"Whether the stockpile takes this tonnage from this owner, or if they buy it themselves and arrange another shipment themselves, is up to them," the Chinese trader said.
"But it depends on the price. If they (the stockpile) can get a premium lower than $100, maybe they will take it. They won't pay $150, or $120, especially on this sort of tonnage."
A trader in Shanghai said CNIEC would "dearly love someone to take the whole lot, but that is unrealistic".
But the Chinese source said: "This copper can only be taken by the stockpile" because no other buyer could afford it.
China levies a three percent import duty and a 17 percent value-added tax on copper imports, which traders said made it prohibitively expensive.
Freight, warehousing and other costs would put the Shanghai copper in the same cost bracket as copper shipped to the region from LME warehouses in Europe or the Americas if the premiums being asked were paid, traders said.
Other traders, in Asia and in Europe, have told Reuters that CNIEC had offered them copper in a series of secret meetings held in major Chinese cities since June.
About 40,000 tonnes was said by traders in China to have been shipped already to warehouses near the northern port of Yingkou, where the strategic stockpile has some warehouses. This has not been confirmed.
Another 20,000 tonnes of copper was stored in Shanghai Metal Exchange warehouses in the eastern port city, and the remainder of the metal was in other Shanghai stores, traders said.
"The whole market is still being manipulated by somebody," a Chinese source said. "The game is not over."
An influential Japanese government panel on Thursday called for a fundamental change in the nation's land policies, arguing that the old concept of trying to hold down land values was out of date.
Real estate values have plummeted since the bursting in the early 1990s of Japan's "bubble" of inflated asset prices.
The panel called for an "appropriate" tax on landholdings in line with balanced assessments of value.
To promote more liquidity in real estate holdings it recommended securitisation and promotion of joint ventures.
It also called for steps to encourage small landowners to sell their land or cooperate in development projects in order for large-scale development to take place in big cities.
Analysts and real estate industry sources said, however, that the panel failed to make specific proposals that would help end the long slump in the real estate market.
"Nobody in the government or politicians have yet formed a clear policy to solve the slump in the real estate market and falling land prices," said a real estate industry source.
Some experts said a change in taxation is the most important step that needs to be taken.
"While the panel makes wide-ranging proposals, it is somewhat disappointing that the panel did not make specific proposals on taxes on land (holdings and transactions)," said Keiko Otsuki, a senior analyst at UBS Securities Ltd.
It is Japan's first review of land policy in five years.
The panel said in its proposals to Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto that land prices had fallen to a point where the price surges in the latter half of the bubble had been offset after a five-year slump.
Emergency intervention measures to curb land prices adopted in 1991 are no longer needed as they are still falling, it said.
Banks and non-bank financial institutions have been reeling from property-related bad loans, a factor blocking a smooth supply of funds to the real estate market and strong economic recovery.
The proposals follow a request by Hashimoto in April for a review of Japan's land policy to cope with structural changes such as falling land prices, growing numbers of people leaving the Tokyo metropolitan area and a rapid rise in the proportion of old people in the population.
Market talk persists about a possible demerger of Rhone-Poulenc into a chemicals company and a pharmaceuticals group, with a leading French broker saying it would boost share value by a third.
"Intrinsically, Rhone-Poulenc is worth no more than 40 to 45 billion francs ($7.89 billion to $8.88 billion) due to the weight of underperforming chemical activities and their important debts," Jean Borjeix, chief analyst at Jean-Pierre Pinatton, wrote recently.
He said that if the pharmaceutical activities -- Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Fisons, Merieux and Connaught -- were separated from the chemical activities, total group value could be 60 billion francs.
"An asset gain of such a size would allow (an investor) to wait until the (demerger) operation takes place," Borjeix said, adding that the 1996 and 1997 results forecasts limited the downside.
Pinatton expects Rhone-Poulenc to report a stable 1996 net attributable profit of 2.05 billion francs, rising to 2.5 billion in 1997. Rhone published a net attributable profit of 2.13 billion in 1995.
Demerger rumours were first fuelled by May 28 comments by managing director Igor Landau, during a luncheon at the Roland Garros tennis tournament, saying the company had studied the possibility but had, for the time being, decided against it.
Borjeix believes the company will decide to split because management has become concerned about share holder value and also because an asset disposal policy is coming to an end.
Other analysts are less sure.
"I don't think it will happen. They will concentrate on improving margins themselves for the time being," said an analyst at a U.S. brokerage in London.
He also dismissed a suggestion, aired in Business Week in June, of Rhone selling its 68 percent stake in Rhone-Poulenc Rorer. "There would be no immediate benefit to that."
Rhone shares have been rising recently, partly on the back of 9.2 percent higher first half profits and on recurring speculative rumours of a split or possible merger of the chemical activities with Atochem of Elf-Aquitaine.
Shares rose from 122.3 francs in May to 136 on June 18 on initial speculation and then fell back to 120.8 on July 24. They have resumed their rise to 131 francs, but this is still below the institutional privatisation price of 146 francs in November 1993 and a price for individuals of 135 francs.
Les Echos newspaper said on July 29 that the company's board meeting of July, where the first half profit figures were approved, had also discussed the group's vulnerability to a takeover bid.
The paper said chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou was worried the insufficent profitability of the chemical sector would make the group a cheap buy for a rival.
Fourtou has made the restructuring of the chemical sector a key part of his strategy, next to a pharmaceutical expansion drive and a 10-billion-franc two-year asset sale plan.
Board member Philippe Desmarescaux was recently given control of the chemicals sector in a move which was seen as signalling that restructuring of the division would accelerate.
Rhone-Poulenc took 223 million francs in provisions for the chemicals sector in the first half and expects total 1996 group provisions to be 500 million francs.
The rumours about a chemical link-up with Elf-Aquitaine are in line with many market stories about big French combinations to stave off competition in world markets -- the same reasoning caused rumours Elf would merge with Total SA.
At Elf, where chairman Philippe Jaffre is also trying to boost profitability with cost cuts and asset sales, the Atochem unit is doing fine, even though sales fell in the first half.
Jacques Puechal, the pipe-smoking chairman of the division, has embarked on a selective acquisition policy bolstered by a surge in 1995 net attributable profit of five billion francs, against 1.8 billion in the previous year.
On Wednesday, Paris broker Leven SA issued a "speculative buy" advice on Rhone Poulenc shares, after having been "neutral". Leven said the company's debt remained a worry but it appreciated developments in the drugs division and noted rumours of a demerger. ($1=5.068 French Franc)
The Canadian Football League is set to hold what many fear may be its last Grey Cup championship on Sunday after a chaotic, money-losing season.
The championship between the Toronto Argonauts -- led by former Boston College star quarterback Doug Flutie -- and the Edmonton Eskimos, is the 84th league title game.
But some wonder if there will be a Grey Cup next year.
Despite returning to its Canadian roots this year after a failed U.S. expansion, the CFL is dripping red ink. All but one of its nine clubs will lose money, due to small crowds and cash bailouts to keep teams in Ottawa, Montreal and Vancouver afloat during the 1996 season.
The 120-year-old Ottawa Rough Riders franchise folded earlier this month at the end of the regular season.
So precarious are the league's finances that the cash-strapped Eskimos could not afford to fly players' wives to the Grey Cup game in Hamilton, Ontario, 42 miles (68 km) southwest of Toronto.
"The LAST Grey Cup?" asked the Toronto Star, Canada's biggest newspaper, in a front page story on Friday.
Some say the CFL needs the bigger and richer National Football League to survive.
CFL Commissioner Larry Smith said he is interested in "building a relationship" with the NFL, but that the CFL will not become a Triple A minor league.
"I have no interest in a farm system. If we could have some developmental relationships like we've done in the past with guys like Warren Moon and Joe Theismann, then that would be great," Smith said in a telephone interview.
Moon and Theismann were star CFL quarterbacks in the 1970s and 1980s before jumping to the NFL.
"What we have been doing is exploring some ideas on ways we could possibly work together. But we have not reached an agreement on anything at this point," said Greg Aiello, director of communications for the NFL.
CFL purists fear closer ties with the NFL would threaten the distinctiveness of Canadian-style football.
Canada's game closely resembles the U.S. brand, but there are a few key differences. The playing field is longer and wider. Canadian teams get only three downs instead of four to gain 10 yards and keep possession of the ball.
There are 12 players a side compared to 11, and single points are awarded for missed field goals not run out of the end zone.
Football writer and former CFL player Frank Cosentino said the NFL could help pay the salaries of developing players, but that closer ties could alienate the CFL's remaining followers.
But fans already appear to have turned off the CFL.
Average attendance slipped to 22,095 this year from 24,400 in 1995, despite a slick new "Radically Canadian" marketing campaign trumpeting the league's Canadian heritage.
In major markets such as Toronto and Vancouver, the league is considered second-rate.
A 1995 pre-season NFL game between the Dallas Cowboys and Buffalo Bills in Toronto drew about 60,000 fans. This year, the Argonauts, despite the league's best record of 15-3, averaged just 20,400 fans.
Unless there is a late surge in ticket sales, the Grey Cup game will fall short of a sell-out. "The way it looks now we may have about 36,000. We have capacity for about 40,000," organiser Matthew Moreland said on Friday.
It is a far cry from the 1950s and 1960s when the CFL attracted huge crowds and players such as Ron Lancaster, Joe Kapp, Angelo Mosca and Sam Etcheverry were household names.
Players now rarely stay long enough to become known by fans. Poor marketing has also left the CFL far behind other sports in the race for the public's entertainment dollars.
In a bid to save the league, Smith has proposed a restructuring plan to cut costs. All clubs have until January to secure enough season-ticket sales to operate next year.
Smith is confident there will be eight teams next year, but he said the CFL was prepared to operate with fewer.
There will likely be no football in Ottawa, next year after the league revoked the franchise in Canada's capital from Chicago businessman Horn Chen.
The future is also cloudy for the Montreal Alouettes -- who won the Grey Cup last year as the Baltimore Stallions, but lured few fans this season -- and the British Columbia Lions, who are in receivership.
Sweden beat the Czech Republic 3-0 in a World Cup ice hockey game on Thursday, setting up a showdown for European group supremacy against Finland and leaving the reigning world champions searching for answers.
The fast-skating Swedes seized control of the game from the opening faceoff, forcing the Czechs to take several early penalties and keeping its vaunted offense in check.
Toronto Maple Leaf winger Mats Sundin opened the scoring midway through the first period when he sped around the Czech defense and pulled Dallas Stars' goalie Roman Turek across the crease before sliding the puck between the netminder's legs.
The Swedish National Hockey League (NHL) connection struck again early in the second frame when Washington Capital defenseman Calle Johansson blasted a slapshot from the blue line past a screened Turek with only 57 seconds gone.
Turek, voted best goalie at the world championships for the past two years, was once again screened when a weak shot from Jonas Bergqvist found the bottom corner of the net to close out the scoring for the undefeated Swedes.
The Czechs came into the tournament riding high after capturing the world title in Vienna in May, but have lost the first two games of the tournament and are in danger of crashing out despite having their version of the "Dream Team".
With the addition of Pittsburgh Penguins duo Jaromir Jagr and Petr Nedved, Montreal Canadiens sharpshooter Martin Rucinsky and the core of the world championship team in tact, the Czechs were looking to prove they belonged at the pinnacle of the hockey world.
The match at Prague's Sports Hall was to be a homecoming of sorts for the Czechs, their first home game since beating Canada 3-2 in a thrilling world championship final on a last minute goal.
But after a demoralising loss to Finland in its tournament opener on Tuesday, and another listless effort on Thursday, Czech fans had had enough, pelting the Czech bench with beer cans near the end of the game.
Even Czech coach Ludek Bukac, a veteran coach with almost 30 years behind the bench, was left searching for an answer to his sputtering offense and the team's lack of dynamism.
"The Swedes played well, you've got to hand it to them. But the fact that we didn't score at home is not a very good showing," he said.
Added Jagr: "We aren't that bad, but our performance is not showing it."
Bukac, who has often expressed his disdain for bringing in players who have talent but not team spirit refused to comment on whether he would invite the same team back if he could do it all again.
But with nine players on the roster with seven or less of national team games under their belts, the Czech players know they must come together quickly, or face the embarassment of failing to win in what is touted as the true battle for hockey supremacy.
"We've got to concentrate on winning against Germany and moving on to the next round, nothing else," added Robert Reichel, who recently re-signed with the Calgary Flames after playing one year in Germany.
The win allows Sweden to keep pace with group leaders Finland, who have also won both their games so far but have a better goal difference.
The two teams meet on Sunday in Stockholm while the Czechs must regroup and beat winless Germany in Garmisch-Partenkirchen on Saturday to move into the quarterfinals next week in North America.
Russia's demand for feed grains will outstrip any output increases its agriculture sector manages in coming years, which could turn the country into a big importer, industry officials said on Friday.
Russia, which has just completed its second poor harvest in two years, the third worst in 30 years, is heading into the next crop cycle with few signs that its dismal track-record will soon recover.
"For now, consumption is still low enough to offset the decline in output, but demand is still going to rise faster than production," said Alexander Yukish, president of the Grain Union, which groups leading private traders.
Russian farmers have to struggle to get their hands on whatever seeds, tractors and fertilisers they can scrape together.
The agriculture sector, one of the most inefficient and least-reformed in Russia, has not adopted the pro-market changes reshaping some other domestic industries.
"Russia will need at least 120 million tonnes of grain when livestock levels and consumption return to the levels we had in 1990," said Yukish. But he said Russian grains output, which has nearly halved in recent years, would not stage a comeback for at least another five or 10 years.
"There is just not enough feed grain in Russia -- we've got to produce more soymeal and maize," Alexander Vasyutin, deputy head of the Agriculture Ministry's crops growing section, said.
Russia has been slaughtering livestock because it does not have enough grain to feed it. Bread is a staple in Russia but people are eating less and product quality is patchy.
Russia's just-completed 1996 gross harvest was 74.6 million tonnes, according to preliminary official figures -- just eight percent above 1995's disastrous net 63.4 million tonnes, the worst since about 1965.
About eight percent of the 1996 total will be lost after cleaning -- putting net output at about 68.6 million tonnes.
Some analysts say up to 20 percent of Russia's harvest was lost in the Soviet era due to inefficient, obsolete combines, and that losses now, with even less money for adequate equipment, may still be severe.
"Next year, we'll see the same harvest we had this year, maybe a little more, maybe a little less," Yukish said. "But to expect sharp increases in output next year is not realistic."
Industry officials said that with the domestic economy showing signs of turning around and a growing middle-class hungry for meat, Russia must act fast if it is to satisfy demand in the future.
Already the signs do not point to big increases next year.
Vasyutin said farmers, afraid of unseasonably warm, dry weather that has lasted into November across Russia's grain belt, had sown 1.2 million fewer hectares, or around 14.5 million hectares, to winter grains for harvesting in 1997.
"Crops are in a satisfactory condition, but moisture levels are not adequate," he said, adding government officials had targeted a 1997 harvest of at least 70 million tonnes."
Winter wheat accounts for about 15 percent of Russian wheat output and can crucially tip the balance.
"Russians want to eat meat -- but this desire has to be preceeded by very serious structural changes in agriculture," Yukish said. "Russia will be a big feed grains importer for quite a while -- of that I am quite sure."
-- Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
The goodwill generated by recent high-level visits may warm a Sino-U.S. presidential meeting this weekend, but lingering disputes mean the two leaders will still have much to talk about, diplomats and analysts said on Friday.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin's meeting with his U.S. counterpart Bill Clinton at a conference of the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in the Philippines would be a key chance to bolster recent progress in easing ties, they said.
A visit this week by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher had brought Beijing welcome signs of new U.S. flexibility on such thorny issues as weapons proliferation, trade and Taiwan, said a Chinese specialist on U.S. affairs.
"During Christopher's visit to China there was progress on all the issues," said Niu Jun of the North American foreign policy department of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Both sides had acknowledged a need to boost contacts and exchange state visits, while Christopher had accepted that U.S. arms sales to Beijing's island rival Taiwan were a weapons proliferation issue, Niu said in a telephone interview.
The clearest sign of Washington's desire to repair the battered cross-Pacific relationship was U.S. willingness to consider starting peaceful nuclear cooperation even before a previously signed accord on the issue was implemented, he said.
"This change (on nuclear technology transfer) symbolised the change in the U.S. attitude," he said.
"There has to be a belief in the possibility of establishing fairly good relations with China in the future (for the United States to be willing) to transfer this kind of advanced technology," he said.
China is eager to buy nuclear reactors from U.S. firms equally keen to tap into its potentially large market, but cooperation has been stunted by U.S. fears that Beijing places few controls on the proliferation of nuclear technology.
While nuclear flexibility is controversial in Washington, mutual interest made nuclear cooperation the issue one that Washington and Beijing could use to ensure a recent improvement in ties did not falter, said a Beijing-based Western diplomat.
"I think that's the big carrot the Americans are trying to hold out for more progress on non-proliferation," the diplomat said. "It's something the Americans would quite like to do anyway because there's money in it."
While Christopher's visit had helped to boost ties in general, China was still likely to hold out for unilateral concessions from Washington on the terms of its accession to the World Trade Organisation, human rights and trade, he said.
"They don't really seem to have made a lot of progress," he said. "I get the impression that there's still a lot of hard pounding to go."
A U.S. desire to see more concrete commitments from Beijing before making concessions meant that the Jiang-Clinton meeting could end up achieving little of real substance, he said.
Taiwan, which Beijing has considered a rebel province since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, would remain China's main policy focus at the presidential meeting, said Niu.
"For China the most important issue is Taiwan...and the reaffirmation that (the United States) will not sell weapons to Taiwan," he said.
While China's stance on most Sino-U.S. bugbear issues was clear, Beijing was unlikely to give any public signal of its intentions on newer issues such as a U.S. push for tax-free imformation technology imports or other APEC proposals, the Western diplomat said.
"I think the Chinese are keeping their powder dry on all these issues," he said.
Russia will push to expand economic ties with China at a top level meeting in Moscow next month as old political hostilities fade in the background, a senior Russian diplomat said on Friday.
"The big task in bilateral relations is to boost economic cooperation to the level of political cooperation," said Russian Ambassador Igor Rogachev.
Chinese Premier Li Peng and Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin will meet in Moscow to map out practical economic steps in a relationship described by the two sides as a strategic partnership.
The two former rivals for the leadership of the world communist movement have not seen such smooth relations since 1949 -- when the Chinese communists proclaimed the birth of the People's Republic of China, according to the Russian diplomat.
"Relations have never been on such a healthy and rational basis," said Rogachev, one of Russia's top China experts.
The two sides would now push to deliver oil, natural gas and electricity from Siberia to China while Russia wanted a role in China's nuclear power development, he told reporters.
Rogachev said Russia was hoping to see other neighbouring countries participate in the projects, though he gave no indication of how likely that was or what form it might take.
China and Russia have already proposed an oil and natural gas pipeline linking Siberia to China but financing is certain to be a key hurdle for the huge project.
"I don't expect an agreement on these issues at the (December) meeting but perhaps we'll be ready by the spring," he said.
That is when China's President Jiang Zemin travels to Moscow for a summit with Russian President Boris Yeltsin, a meeting arranged during the visit to China this week of Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov.
China and Russia are expected to sign another accord soon, this one on troop reductions along their 4,300 km (2,580 mile) border, the official Xinhua news agency has said.
Rogachev said Russia was eager to reduce the high cost of stationing troops along the lengthy border, particularly when the strains of the 1960s Sino-Soviet split were so far behind them.
"We don't think that China creates a threat for our country and they (China's leaders) don't see Russia as an enemy," Rogachev said.
During Yeltsin's April visit to China the two nations -- along with the three former soviet states of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan -- signed a treaty agreeing to inform each other of military exercises along the border and not to attack each other.
However, China and Russia been unable to reach agreement on one area of cooperation -- further deliveries of Russia's Sukhoi Su-27 interceptors.
China's armed forces have already put into service a first group of the planes but talks for further sales have long been stalled over payment and technology transfer issues.
"Talks are going on," Rogachev told reporters. "There will be more talks in future."
Japan's major commercial banks on Friday said they had returned to the black in the first half of the current business year after many of them posted losses in the previous fiscal year.
Analysts said that aggressive problem loan write-offs in the second half of the previous fiscal year which ended in March led to the losses after the 10 banks posted record profits in the first-half of that business year.
They added the results were close to the previous earnings' forecasts made by the biggest banks, showing that the banks are on schedule in steadily writing off their problem loans.
"The earnings results in the first half of the last business year were extraordinarily good...Interest rates were falling and anybody could earn profits if they sold bonds," said Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre.
"While operating profits have declined from a year earlier, the business environment is not bad due to the low interest rates, and they will probably post handsome profits for the whole business year," he said.
Many of the big banks had losses in the previous business year due to the massive disposal of problem loans, including those to failed "jusen" mortgage firms, he said.
The 10 banks said that combined operating profits -- profits from the banking business before loan loss provisions -- totalled 1.19 trillion yen ($10.7 billion) in the first half, down from 1.87 trillion yen ($16.8 billion) a year earlier.
Combined parent current profits -- pre-tax profit including losses and gains on investments -- totalled 391.9 billion yen ($3.53 billion) in the first half, down from 463.2 billion yen ($4.17 billion) a year earlier.
Sasajima said the 10 banks had projected 1.16 trillion yen ($10.4 billion) in combined operating profits and 334 billion yen ($3.00 billion) in combined parent current profits.
Some of the bankers, however, remained cautious.
Akishige Okada, senior managing director at Sakura Bank Ltd, told reporters that a narrowing in the loan spread, which was a main reason for the decline in operating profits, was likely to continue in the second half of the year to March 31.
"I expect the business environment will not be so good, as the current interest rate situation is not expected to change in the latter half," Okada said.
The loan spread is the spread between the rates paid on deposits and for other fund-raising, and the rates charged on lending. Japan's interest rates fell to record low levels in the last fiscal year and have remained there.
Of the 10 banks,  Hokkaido Takushoku, Sakura, Fuji, Daiwa, Sanwa, Tokai and Asahi posted current losses in 1995/96.
The 10 banks -- including the Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi Bank which merged into the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi on April 1, Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, and Sumitomo Bank -- disposed of 6.31 trillion yen ($56.8 billion) worth of problem loans in 1995/96.
Bankers said that they would continue to dispose of problem loans in the latter half of 1996/97 after doing so in the first half by setting aside loan-loss provisions and selling them to a joint problem loan liquidation body.
For instance, Fumio Akanuma, senior managing director at Dai-Ichi Kangyo, said: "We disposed of 134.6 billion yen ($1.21 billion) of problem loans in the first half...We plan to dispose of a total of 330 billion yen ($2.97 billion) in the full year (to March 31)." ($1=111 yen)
Motorola Inc is appealing to Chinese authorities over taxes on capital imports that would boost the cost of a $500 million semiconductor plant being built in the city of Tianjin, a company official said on Friday.
Construction of the plant in Xiqing district, a half an hour's drive from the northern port city's centre, was on schedule and production was expected to begin in the first quarter of 1998, said the official, who declined to be identified.
The U.S. high-technology giant was appealing to China's State Council, or cabinet, over taxes on imports of vital equipment for the semiconductor plant, or fab, he said.
Beijing on April 1 abolished privileges for foreign-funded ventures that had allowed them to import machinery and other capital equipment free of tax. Investors say the move has dramatically increased the cost of many projects.
"There is an appeal committee within the State Council and we are appealing for some tax exemption (for the Xiqing plant)," the Motorola official said.
He declined to say if the company was optimistic of being granted exemptions, or when a decision was expected.  
An official of the State Council's information office contacted by telephone said he was unaware of an appeal by Motorola over taxes on imports, adding that such matters were the concern of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation.
Work on the Xiqing project had already begun, the Motorola official said.
"We have already broken ground...Now we are erecting the buildings," he said. "We are looking at 1998, first quarter (to begin production)."
Initial investment in the venture was expected to be around $500 million, but the cost of such semiconductor plants could easily rise to $1.0 billion, he said but gave no details.
Motorola has been quoted as saying the Xiqing plant will produce 180,000 eight-inch sub-micron wafers a year, making it a major addition to a Chinese semiconductor industry that has long lagged far behind its Asian neighbours.
Motorola, which has vowed to invest $1.2 billion in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong between 1988 and 2000, generated sales revenues in China and Hong Kong of $3.2 billion last year, the official said.  
The company's China plants were considered strategic investments, he said, adding that the local content rate of their products was expected to rise to around 55 percent by 2000 from around 45 percent currently.
Motorola's exports from its China operations accounted for about 30 percent of production value, less than expected because of the breakneck expansion of the domestic market, he said.
"The market here, especially the telecom market, just exploded," he said.
State media has quoted Motorola executives as saying the number of Chinese using pagers is likely to rise by around 43 percent this year to more than 40 million people, making China the biggest user of pagers in the world.
Motorola currently supplies more than 50 percent of the domestic pager market, the official said, but declined to give details.
In the competitive mobile phone market -- where Motorola is seen as enjoying less success -- the U.S. firm was hoping development of Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) cellular technology would help boost market share, he said but gave no details.
Jailed Chinese dissident Wang Dan is suffering from severe throat and back problems in a cold northeast China prison that does not have the facilities to treat him, his mother said on Friday.
Wang, who is serving an 11-year sentence for plotting to overthrow the government, was suffering from throat inflammation, back ailments and a prostate problem, his mother said after visiting the Jinzhou prison in Liaoning province.
"According to what one doctor said, just one look at his throat infection was enough to know it is very serious," his mother, Wang Lingyun, said by telephone.
The mother quoted Wang as saying prison authorities had called in outside medical specialists to examine him.
Doctors told the 27-year-old former student leader that the prison did not have the facilities to treat him and his condition could deteriorate with the onset of winter, she said.
"It appears they have no way to cure his sickness there," she said. "The place he's in is pretty cold and very dry and not very suitable for people with throat infections."
Wang Lingyun said the family would continue to petition the courts to review her son's case and that she was looking into the possibility of getting him released on medical parole.
"The law gives us this right, and if we have this right, we want to use it," she said of the petitions.
Such petitions are symbolic gestures and would not involve any court hearings.
"As for medical parole, I'm still looking up the relevant laws," she said.
A Chinese court last week took 10 minutes to reject Wang's appeal and upheld his prison sentence for subversion for publishing articles in foreign publications and receiving funds from hostile overseas organisations.
China earlier this month released leading dissident Chen Ziming from prison to allow him to receive medical treatment.
Wang Lingyun said her son, dressed in prison clothes, had appeared in good spirits and said he was being treated well.
"He said...they had put him in a small compound and he can go outside and move around whenever he wants," she said.
Wang Lingyun said prison authorities had handed over to her son a stack of books she had brought him.
"They gave him a bookshelf -- something they've never done before -- and a desk," she said. "You can say he's getting relatively special treatment."
Wang, a former history major at Beijing University, has already served four years in prison for his role in student demonstrations for democracy that were crushed by the army in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
The jailing of Wang was the latest in a series of crushing blows to China's struggling democracy movement. Most dissidents have been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or labour camps.
Dutch bank ABN AMRO Holding NV said Friday it agreed to pay $1.9 billion to acquire Standard Federal Bancorp, which owns the seventh-largest savings bank in the United States and the biggest in Michigan.
ABN AMRO, which already has a U.S. banking arm, the LaSalle group, said it was offering $59 a share for Standard Federal, a bank holding company with $15.5 billion in assets based in Troy, Mich.
SFB owns Standard Federal Bank, a large home mortgage lender in Michigan that operates about 180 bank branches and 11 home lending centres. It also operates a wholesale mortgage banking business.
Despite the offer, SFB stock fell after running up sharply in recent days on takeover speculation. Some investors were disappointed the price was not higher, analysts said.
"All the people were really speculating yesterday that it was a lot higher are selling today because they're disappointed," said Tony Howard, analyst at Olde Discount Corp.
SFB stock lost $1.625 to $56.375 in active trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Standard Federal chief lending officer Garry Carley said at a news conference that ABN AMRO had made the highest bid for the bank among several serious suitors.
"We had others who expressed strong interest in the bank," Carley told reporters.
ABN AMRO, the Netherlands' leading bank, said it would issue $750 million in preferred stock to help fund the acquisition, its biggest to date. It said it would issue the shares through a U.S. subsidiary, ABN AMRO North America Inc.
Formed in a 1990 merger, ABN AMRO already is the biggest foreign bank in the United States. Its LaSalle group has 130 branches and 7,750 staff members, mainly in the Chicago area.
The agreement marks ABN AMRO North America Inc.'s sixth acquisition in three years and is likely to be the last for a while, ABN AMRO North America Chief Executive Officer Harrison Tempest said at a news conference.
"We're out of the acquisition business for some time now," Tempest said. When asked how long before it might make another deal, he said, "probably two years."
The combined banks will also be the eighth largest mortgage originator in the United States, ABN AMRO said.
"It gets us into the league we want to be in mortgage servicing and mortgage origination," Tempest said.
SFB employs about 4,000 people and serves 1 million clients in Michigan, Ohio, Illinois and Indiana.
ABN AMRO said Standard Federal's banks will continue to operate under the Standard Federal name and there would be "significant cost savings" following the deal.
While saying no jobs would be cut initially, both companies said some job cuts were likely eventually as administrative functions and some branches were consolidated.
With Standard Federal, ABN AMRO North America will have the second largest deposit base in the Chicago market.
Analysts said recent changes in U.S. banking law that will level the playing field between thrifts and banks should help speed other acquisitions of savings and loans.
"I think you're going to see an increased level of activity, both in banks acquiring thrifts and thrifts acquiring thrifts," said Jonathon gray, analyst at Sanford Bernstein &amp; Co.
ABN AMRO said it had reached agreement with Standard Federal's board, but the deal still needed the approval of its shareholders and supervisory authorities.
The acquisition was expected to be completed by mid-1997, ABN said, adding that the deal would contribute to its earnings.
Former Archer Daniels Midland Co. executive Mark Whitacre, who acted as an informant in an antitrust case against the company, Friday sued ADM, seeking back wages and punitive damages.
In a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court, Whitacre also formally denied charges previously brought by ADM that he allegedly stole $9.0 million from the agribusiness company.
"ADM's claim that Whitacre was fired for embezzlement is merely a pretext," the lawsuit says.
"Whitacre was in fact fired for assisting the FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) with its investigation into ADM," the lawsuit continues.
Last month, ADM pleaded guilty to two counts of fixing prices of lysine, a feed additive and citric acid, which is used in food and beverages. It agreed to pay $100 million in fines, a record for U.S. antitrust cases.
In his lawsuit, Whitacre seeks a judgment against ADM of more than $50,000 and punitive damages of more than $50,000. Potential damages, if awarded, could be much greater, perhaps in the tens of millions of dollars, sources close to the case said.
In September, Whitacre had said he planned to file an $80 million wrongful discharge lawsuit against ADM.
Legal experts said it is common practice in lawsuits to seek damages above or below $50,000.
ADM did not respond to requests for comment on the lawsuit.
In his lawsuit, Whitacre is claiming lost wages from August 1995, when he was fired as president of ADM's BioProducts Division, until October 1995, when he was hired as chief executive officere of Biomar International Inc.
Whitacre earned $320,000 a year at ADM plus stock options.
In his lawsuit, Whitacre charged ADM with denying him the right to exercise company stock options, defamation of his character and mental and emotional distress.
Whitacre has admitted to attempting suicide last year after his role as an FBI mole became known.
He also said he was forced to sell his home in the Decatur, Ill., area for only $400,000, even though it had been recently appraised for $1 million. Whitacre said in the lawsuit he had invested about $1.3 million on the home.
Whitacre is now a resident of Chapel Hill, N.C.
His attorneys, Richard Kurth of Kurth &amp; DeArmond of Danville, Ill., and Bill Walker of Granite City, Ill., were not immediately available to comment.
The lawsuit was not handled by Chicago attorney James Epstein of the firm Epstein, Zaideman &amp; Esrig, who has been representing Whitacre. Asked if he has fired Epstein from the case, Whitacre replied, "no comment."
Epstein was not available to comment.
Former Archer Daniels Midland Co executive Mark Whitacre, who acted as an informant in an antitrust case against the company, on Friday filed suit against ADM seeking back wages and punitive damages.
In a suit filed in U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois, Whitacre also formally denied charges previously brought by ADM that he allegedly stole $9.0 million from the agribusiness company.
"ADM's claim that Whitacre was fired for embezzlement is merely a pretext," the lawsuit says.  
"Whitacre was in fact fired for assisting the FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) with its investigation into ADM," the suit continues.
Last month, ADM pleaded guilty to two counts of fixing prices of lysine, a feed additive and citric acid, which is used in food and beverages. It agreed to pay $100 million in fines, a record for U.S. antitrust cases.
In his suit, Whitacre seeks a judgment against ADM of more than $50,000 and punitive damages of more than $50,000. Potential damages, if awarded, could be much greater, perhaps in the tens of millions, sources close to the case said.  
In September, Whitacre had said he planned to file an $80 million wrongful discharge suit against ADM.
Legal experts said it is common practice in suits to seek damages above or below $50,000.
ADM did not respond to requests for comment on the suit.
In his suit, Whitacre is claiming lost wages from August, 1995, when he was fired as president of ADM's BioProducts Division, until October 1995 when he was hired as chief executive officere of  Biomar International Inc.
Whitacre earned $320,000 a year at ADM, plus stock options.  
In his suit, Whitacre charges ADM with denying him the right to exercise company stock options, defamation of his character and mental and emotional distress.
Whitacre has admitted to trying to kill himself last year after his role as an FBI mole became known.
He also claimed that he was forced to sell his home in the Decatur, Ill., area for only $400,000, even though it had been recently appraised for $1.0 million. Whitacre also said in the suit he had invested about $1.3 million on the home.
Whitacre is now a resident of Chapel Hill, N.C.
Whitacre's attorneys, Richard Kurth of Kurth &amp; DeArmond of Danville, Ill., and Bill Walker of Granite City, Ill., were not immediately available for comment.
The lawsuit was not handled by Chicago attorney James Epstein of the firm Epstein, Zaideman &amp; Esrig, who has been representing Whitacre. Asked if he has fired Epstein from the case, Whitacre replied, "no comment."
Epstein was not available for comment.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787
Semiconductor equipment stocks surged Friday on fresh signs the downturn in the chip industry has hit bottom, and the buying spilled over into some computer chip makers as well.
Investors jumped in after the leading maker of equipment used to produce computer chips, Applied Materials Inc., gave support to the growing consensus in the industry that the market for chip-making machinery would turn up in 1997.
Applied Materials on Thursday reported lower earnings for the latest quarter but also said that even at the low point in the current technology spending cycle, it expected profit margins to stay higher than in prior downturns.
That was enough for investors to rush in, even while the industry's profits have yet to start a meaningful rebound. Semiconductor equipment stocks are often seen by investors as bellwethers for the next wave of technology growth.
"Now we have an indication out of Applied Materials that the bottom is not as deep as some may have worried or suggested," said Deutsche Morgan analyst Elliott Rogers, who was one of several analysts to raise Applied to "buy" from "hold" Friday.
Applied Materials stock surged $6.625 to $38.625 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq, where it was the most active issue with more than 21 million shares traded.
In addition to Applied Materials, KLA Instruments Corp. rallied $5 to $38.25, Tencor Instruments rose $5.50 to $26.75, and Lam Research Corp. increased $4.625 to $34.125.
The four equipment stocks were among Nasdaq's 10 most active, while Intel Corp., the world's biggest chip maker, rose $3.125 to $122.
Other chip equipment makers also rose, including PRI Automation Inc., up $6.375 to $42.875, and Novellus Systems Inc., up $8 to $57.875.
After the market closed Thursday, Applied Materials said profits fell 53 percent to $73.1 million, or 40 cents a share, for its fourth fiscal quarter, which was about in line with expectations.
But Wall Street analysts widely believe a new chapter has begun to unfold for the chip industry, which could lead to a rebound in orders for production equipment.
The recovery is expected since sales of personal computers appear to be picking up, which means renewed demand for additional chip-making equipment cannot far behind. PCs soak up about half of all semiconductors produced worldwide.
The chip industry over the years has become notorious for its boom-to-bust cycles. Many now argue that the latest year-long slow-down in semiconductor equipment spending has stabilised, leaving the industry poised to begin another of its cyclical upturns early next year.
This could come even after chip makers aggressively built plants and added capacity last year, which flooded the market and led to a glut of chip inventory earlier this year.
Alex. Brown analyst Byron Walker said that during a conference call Thursday, Applied Materials executives said they saw equipment order rates stabilising.
But while Walker upgraded Applied Materials and other stocks in the group, he cautioned the companies might be hurt next year by a continued glut of computer memory chips, the biggest category of semiconductors.
Investors snatched up semiconductor equipment stocks Friday amid further signs the cyclical downturn in chips has hit bottom, spurring a round of buy ratings to be issued for leading industry names.
The buying spree followed comments by sector flagship Applied Materials Inc that even at the low-point in the current cycle, the company expects its profit margins to remain higher than in previous market cycles, analysts said.
Applied shares gained 4-3/4 points to 36-3/4 in early trading Friday on extremely heavy volume of 11 million shares.  
"Now we have an indication out of Applied Materials that the bottom is not as deep as some may have worried or suggested," said Deutsche Morgan analyst Elliott Rogers, who was one of several to raise Applied to buy from hold Friday.
Besides Applied, KLA Instruments Corp rallied 5-7/8 to 39-1/8 while both Tencor Instruments and Lam Research Corp sailed up 4-3/8 points, to 25-5/8 for Tencor and 33-7/8 for Lam, respectively.
The four equipment stocks were among Nasdaq's six most active, while microprocessor giant Intel Corp, the most likely benificiary of a recovery, was up 2-1/8 to 121.  
Chip equipments were also marquee names among net percentange gainers on Nasdaq, with Novellus Systems Inc and PRI Automation Inc featured. Novellus rose 6-41/64 points to 56-5/8 and PRI gained 4-1/4 to 40-3/4.
Alex. Brown analyst Byron Walker said that during a conference call Thursday, Applied Materials executives had spoken of a potential stabilization of equipment order rates.
But while Walker joined the rush to upgrade Applied and others in the group to buy from neutral, he cautioned that he considered these stocks near-term "trading vehicles" that could be hurt by the continued glut of memory chips in 1997.  
Several analysts said the rush to buy semiconductor equipment stocks reflected a positive upturn in chip industry book-to-bill figures released earlier this month, which suggested the rebound in the chip market is expanding beyond PC-related chip sets to include other industrial markets.
"Clearly the IC (integrated circuit) industry, lead by Intel is posting a nice rebound," Rogers said.
"More importantly at least for (Applied is that) their margins are more sustainable at the trough than was the case in the prior cycle," Rogers said of the 1991-1992 downturn that crunched profits in the typically boom-to-bust industry.
He said Applied's operating margins were unlikely to dip under "the low to mid-teens" in the current cycle of inventory correction compared with the low-point of the 1991-1992 cycle, when operating margins of eight to nine percent obtained.
Several analysts, including PaineWebber's Gunnar Miller and DMG's Rogers, argued that valuations of the group did not reflect the sector's rebounding earnings potential.
Rogers said he had bumped up his earnings estimates on Applied's fiscal 1997 year to $1.90 per share from $1.85. He maintained his estimate of $3.40 per share for fiscal 1998.
Thursday, after the market close, Applied Materials had released earnings for the fourth quarter ended October 27 of $0.40 per share, excluding a $0.09 per share charge, which analysts described as in line with expectations.
"More to the point, prior to last night I thought I was going to have to cut the number," Rogers said of his decision to increase his earnings projection for fiscal 1997.
-- E. Auchard, New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Welsh multi-utility Hyder's shares rose after it posted a 25 percent hike in half-year profits on Friday and said electricity business Swalec, which it took over in January, should boost earnings.
Pretax profits rose to 100.7 million pounds ($169.5 million) for the six months ending September 30 from 80.6 million pounds a year ago, and Hyder paid an interim dividend of 14.6 pence per share from 12.6 pence. The results were in line with forecasts.
Shares were up 13-1/2 pence to 755-1/2 pence by 1127 GMT.
The company said in a statement that Swalec, taken over by Welsh Water to form Hyder, "should be materially earnings enhancing on a full year basis."
It added that efficiency savings from its merged services were ahead of target.
"These are very good results. Hyder is also showing that synergy savings are happening more quickly than expected," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
Hyder managing director Graham Hawker said in an interview with Reuters that Swalec's savings were ahead of targets set before Welsh Water's bid last year.
"Before the bid, Swalec was looking at savings of 45 million pounds by 2000. We are slightly ahead on achieving those," he said.
Hyder said in June that the merger could cut operating costs by 46 million pounds in 2000 while cumulative cost savings from the merger should total 275 million pounds by then.
That compares with cost savings of 105 million pounds in 1997/98 predicted by United Utilities, the first multi-utility to be created when North West Water took over regional electricity company Norweb last year.
United Utilities also said it expected real dividend growth of 11 percent, but Hawker would not comment on whether Hyder would maintain half year real dividend growth of 11 percent.
"We will let actions speak louder than words," he said.
Hyder will continue to take costs out of its regulated businesses which should help dividend growth, Hawker said.
But it will also be looking to increase its non-regulated business, he said. Those turned in profits before interest of 13.1 million pounds in the half year.
Its infrastructure business saw profits before interest leap to 3.3 million pounds from 0.6 million a year ago and the company said its Infrastructure Developments business profits are "continuing to improve."
Hawker said the infrastructure business should benefit from government moves to finance projects through the government-sponsored Private Finance Initiative.
"That could be a very big market," he said.
Hyder will aim to secure a "largish number of five to 10 million pound-a-time projects," which spread exposure, he said.
He said returns for Hyder on its involvement with a group which won a contract to run 122 kilometres of the busy M40 motorway between London and Warwick in central England "will considerably exceed our cost of capital."
Hyder holds a 40 percent stake in that group, UK Highways, along with Tarmac, John Laing, France's Caisse des Depots et Consignations and Transroute International. ($1=.5940 Pound)
British electricity transmission business National Grid should report a rise in half year profits on November 26 and could explain how it will cope with new pricing controls that come into effect on April 1, 1997.
"We will be looking for indications on how they are going to cope, whether there will be any cost cutting," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
Analysts expect National Grid's first half profits to range from 279 to 304 million stg, up from 278.9 million previously. A dividend payout of 4.45 to 4.9 pence per share is forecast.  
The company, which was floated in December 1995, capitulated in October to revised transmission pricing proposed by industry watchdog Offer which included a one-off reduction of 20 percent in the first year starting April 1, 1997.
For the following three years, price increases will be capped at four points below inflation.
National Grid had called Offer's original proposals of a one-off cut between 20 and 26 percent "contrived, illogical and inconsistent."  
The company said when it accepted the revised controls that it would introduce further measures to improve efficiency but that the cuts would have "a material impact on transmission business profitability."
"Does the review mean that its finances are going to be hit hard?" asked the analyst. "I feel it needs to justify its capitulation, which sold shareholders down the river," he added.
National Grid chief executive said at the time price cuts were agreed that he was confident of maintaining a "progressive" dividend policy but analysts said clearer indications would be welcomed.  
The market will also be watching for updates on progress in finding a partner for its Energis telecommunications service.
Energis said in October that it was on track to announcing a link with an international carrier within a year.
Energis made an operating loss of 72.8 million stg last year but expects to break even in 1999/2000.
National Grid shares were up 6p in late trade on Friday at 192p.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Royal Bank of Scotland, which reports full year data next Thursday, is expected to raise its pre-tax profit from last year's 602 million stg but not by as much as analysts thought just a few months ago.
They expect Royal Bank's profits to rise to between 670 and 700 million stg, with a much smaller contribution from its Direct Line low cost insurance, but benefits continuing to accrue from the bank's efforts to reduce costs.
Total dividend is expected to be around 18.6 pence a share versus last year's 16.2p.  
The pre-tax figures will be complicated by an exceptional gain from Royal Bank's disposal of its 50 pct stake in Germany's CC Group, from which it said it would make 70 million stg, and by restructuring costs of around 23 million pounds stemming from an acquisition by its New England subsidiary Citizens.
Forecasts for Direct Line vary widely but analysts are generally pessimistic, with the company's main market -- motor insurance -- going through "probably the most diffucult period in its history", as chief executive Ian Chippendale told Reuters in an interview last week.  
"I think Chippendale was sending a strong message," said one analyst who declined to be named. "I think he was softening up the market for a poor set of results."
Some analysts suspect the results may not be quite as poor as hs been feared by some.
They see the core bank as continuing to perform quite well with the positive results of its "Project Columbus" helping costs and income.
David Poutney expects a pre-tax profit of 695 million stg, which includes the exceptional items, while BZW analysts expect 675 million.  
The market received a big clue on the performance of Citizens from the recent results of Bank of Ireland which owns 23 percent of the operation.
"Citizens is doing reasonably well," Poutney said, but analysts say it is being affected by the rather lacklustre New England economy.
The market will be expecting improvement in the cost income ratio but analysts say that even an improvement this time will leave the bank plenty of scope for improvement.  
The market will be looking for further clues on lending which showed good growth, mostly in corporate lending area, in the first half.
Inevitably, Royal Bank will also be watched for signs of acquisitions.
It is known to be interested in buying a building society to extend its presence in England but in the current climate, it is unlikely to be willing to pay the high prices likely to be asked.
In any case, analysts say Royal Bank would have to raise cash to be able to perform any major acquisition.  
In the meantime, the market will be looking to its relationship with mutually owned insurance and pensions firm Scottish Widows, which some think may result in an eventual merger.
Royal Bank shares were 15p higher on Friday to stand at 519-1/2p.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864
British sugar and sweeteners group Tate and Lyle Plc is likely to see a sharp drop in its full year profits on Wednesday, as its U.S. sugar unit Staley suffers a near 50 percent decline in earnings.
"The main swing factor will be Staley which has been squeezed between high raw material costs and poor high-fructrose corn syrup pricing," said Michael Landymore, an analyst at Henderson Crosthwaite. Analysts forecasts for pretax profits range from 270 to 285 million stg, down from 311 million last time. A total dividend for the year of 17.0p is expected, up a penny.  
Staley, which turned in profits of some 150 million stg in 1995, is expected to contribute just 75 million this time round.
But analysts expect the downturn at Staley to be partly offset by an improvement in the company's North American sugar business in the second half and better returns from its investment in emerging markets.
"The key feature is going to be Staley and the re-negotiation of contracts although clearly these figures come a little early for the company to give us much indication of that," said John Elston, an analyst at Panmure Gordon.  
Staley, which produces high fructrose corn syrup used as sweeteners in Coca Cola and Pepsi drinks, re-negotiates supply contracts with soft drinks firms at the beginning of every calender year.
In May, at the half year stage, Tate &amp; Lyle warned on its results for the full year as a result of steep grain prices. For the 26 weeks ended March 30, 1996 profits were up 10.1 percent from a year earlier at 168.2 million stg before tax.
But chairman Sir Neil Shaw said that profits for the full year were expected to be below the level anticipated at the company's annual meeting in January.  
"Trading conditions for Staley, the group's North American subsidiary are difficult, affected by increases in available industry capacity and coinciding with a dramatic increase in the cost of maize," said Shaw at the half year stage.
He said Staley's profits were expected to continue to be affected by the abnormal grain prices and competitive pressures through 1997 but that Tate &amp; Lyle should get more benefit from other investments, especially in new growth areas.
Traditionally Staley has provided about 50 percent of group profits.  
In July, the company said an explosion at its Scottsbluff sugar beet facility in Nebraska would hit 1996 pretax profits by 10 million -- two thirds would be for the insurance loss and one third for the disruption to production.
Domino Sugar, a North American cane refiner, is likely to show an improvement while Tate's Western Sugar Company in Colorado is expected to suffer from a bad sugar beet crop.
Analysts expect Tate's north American business, excluding Staley, to contribute about 110 million to group profits.
An improvement is also expected in earnings from Tate's UK Thames sugar refinery, forecast to chip in about 60 million stg.  
Amylum, a Belgium based cereal sweetener and starch company majority owned by Tate, is forecast to make about 85 million.
Other European sugar businesses should contribute some 22 million. In 1995 Tate's European business made 144.3 million stg in operating profits.
The company's sweeteners and starches busines in the rest of the world, including 100 percent owned Bundaberg Sugar in Australia, should add about 32 million stg to group trading profits up from 25.1 million stg in 1995.  
The group's animal foods and bulk storage business is predicted to contribute some 32 million, slightly down from 35.4 million in 1995. A Reuter poll of 20 brokers produced a consensus estimate for earnings per share of 37.6p for the year ended 28 september 1996, rising to 40.6p the following year.
Since May, Tate &amp; Lyle's shares have underperformed the stock market by about five percent but outperformed its peers in the food manufacturing sector by a similar amount.
The shares were up 3p in early trade on Friday at 466p.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
CompuServe Corp., acknowledging its failure to attract U.S. consumers, said Thursday it would disband its family-oriented Wow! online service and focus on its business and technical customers.
The world's second-largest online service also said it would accelerate the way it expenses customer marketing costs and that it was taking a $28.6 million charge in the latest quarter for previously incurred subscriber acquisition costs.
The company said it would pursue businesses with higher profit margins, including international consumer markets, espcially those in Europe.
"For CompuServe, this represents a strategic retreat back to its basics," said Peter Krasilovsky, a veteran analyst of the online industry at Arlen Communications in Bethesda, Md.
"CompuServe will never contend for the king's mantle among the online service/Internet service providers in North America again," he said.
CompuServe officials stressed no layoffs would result from the latest moves. Wow!'s 35 employees have already been absorbed into CompuServe Interactive, they said. The company's total head count stands at about 3,200 worldwide.
The company laid off 150 employees, or 4 percent of its work force, in an earlier cutback announced last summer.
CompuServe's moves come on the heels of recent aggressive actions by rival America Online Inc. to stay on top by offering a series of new pricing options, including a flat monthly rate of $19.95, and by shutting down its direct Internet access service.
Since CompuServe's parent, H&amp;R Block Inc., sold 20 percent of the online service to the public in April, CompuServe has struggled to keep up with America Online, the largest online service, and with a host of Internet-based competitors.
America Online has more than 7 million subscribers. As of Oct. 31, CompuServe said it had 3.3 million direct worldwide subscribers. NiftyServe, its Japanese licensee, had a total of 5.3 million, roughly the same level as in July.
In reaction to CompuServe's continuing troubles, H&amp;R Block in August shelved plans to spin off the 80 percent of CompuServe it still owns.
Since CompuServe's initial public stock offering in April, its prospects have dimmed, with its stock tumbling from an initial price of $30 a share. The stock fell 94 cents Thursday to $10.69 on Nasdaq.
Earlier Thursday, H&amp;R reported a substantial loss for its second quarter ended Oct. 31, citing CompuServe's turmoil.
Krasilovsky said CompuServe's plan to go back to basics was "very realistic," but added "too bad they didn't do it a year-and-a-half ago."
The analyst said he expects the company to reposition itself to provide niche services to business customers who don't want to pay for a high-level premium online service.
In a telephone interview, CompuServe spokesman Steve Conway said that while his company was abandoning further mass-marketing efforts aimed at U.S. consumers, "If you are currently a subscriber, you will not notice a change."
Nontheless, the Columbus, Ohio-based company said it would target its efforts and investments at business and professional users, its traditional strength.
Wow! was introduced seven months ago to much fanfare, but failed to get off the ground. Wow! customers numbered 102,000 at latest count, the company said.
The company blamed the failure of Wow! on new market entrants, or Internet service providers, pricing competition and the high costs of consumer marketing.
The company also said it plans to launch early next year a new "CompuServe for Business" service, an enhanced version of its core CompuServe Interactive with a new interface and added content from "thousands" of information providers.
Despite a series of missteps in the United States, growth remains robust overseas where CompuServe's brand is the best recognised name among online and Internet access providers.
In Europe, for example, CompuServe said subscribers to its main CompuServe Interactive online service had nearly doubled to more than 800,000 in the past year.
Britain's Ladbroke Group and the U.S. Hilton Hotels Corp (HHC) on Thursday unveiled an alliance to reunite the famous Hilton hotel brand around the world for the first time since 1964.
"We have been separated but now our companies are engaged," said Steve Bollenbach, HHC's chief executive officer.
"This will make Hilton the force to be reckoned with in the global hotel industry," Bollenbach told a news conference. "It will eliminate customer confusion and benefit millions of our customers worldwide."
HHC owns the Hilton name in the United States while Ladbroke holds the rights everywhere else through its Hilton International (HIC) subsidiary.
The two companies have signed an outline agreement to unify the Hilton brand, separated in 1964 when HIC was spun off from the American operation. Ladbroke acquired HIC in 1987.
In the alliance grouping 400 hotels in 49 countries, HHC and HIC intend to cooperate from next year on sales and marketing, loyalty programmes and hotel development.
Ladbroke also announced first half pre-tax profits of 72.8 million pounds ($113.5 million) before exceptional items, a 29 percent increase on last year and above analyst forecasts. The interim dividend was unchanged at 2.4 pence per share.
Ladbroke shares added 7.5p to a 1996 high of 215p in early trade before slipping back to close 2p firmer at 209.5p.
The alliance gives HHC a larger presence in the international hotel arena. It offers Ladbroke a major position in American hotels and the chance to participate in the expansion of HHC's U.S. gaming business.
The companies plan to finalise the agreement as soon as possible in order for it to become effective by early 1997.
Bollenbach and Ladbroke chief executive Peter George said the deal would be worth tens of millions of dollars when cost savings and extra sales were combined.
Share analysts applauded the alliance.
"The Hilton tie-up is more extensive than people expected. We are expecting big things from 1998 onwards," said Greg Feehely of Kleinwort Benson.
HHC intends to acquire a five percent stake in Ladbroke once the final agreement has been signed. Ladbroke has said it expects to invest significant sums in hotels and casinos developed by its partner in the United States.
"We're putting our money where our mouth is," said Bollenbach, a former Walt Disney Company executive who joined HHC in February.
He said one of his first calls at HHC was to his Ladbroke counterpart George. The two men subsequently met several times and even shared a holiday, rafting in Idaho with their wives.
Under the deal, George will join the HHC board while Bollenbach becomes a director of Ladbroke.
The Hilton hotel chain was founded in 1919 when Conrad Hilton opened his first hotel in the Texan town of Cisco.
In 1946, Hilton became the first hotel company to list on the New York Stock Exchange. HIC was spun off in 1964 and it was acquired three years later by Trans World Airlines. ($1=.6412 Pound)
Jet Multimedia aims to take on both Netscape Communications and Microsoft and have its France Explorer browser become the French standard instead of Netscape Navigator or Microsoft Explorer.
A spokeswoman for the small Lyon-based company said on Friday that France Explorer would be distributed for free at the start of 1997 and the programme would allow access to the Internet, to existing multimedia servers as well as to France's Minitel on-line database from a home personal computer.
She declined to give many details ahead of an official launch of the programme by Jet Multimedia's founding chairman Eric Peyre on December 12.
But the software programme, using a new France Telecom service for Internet access, could become a challenge to existing Internet Access Providers. It could also impact content providers in France such as AOL -- a joint-venture of America Online and Bertelsmann -- CompuServe and smaller Infonie by drawing away new customers.
France Telecom, which launched its own Wanadoo online service in association with Havas in May and which uses a French language version of the Microsoft Explorer, will in January open a service that it calls "The Internet Kiosk".
These are special telephone numbers which give access to the Internet using the France Telecom backbone telecommunications infrastructure. These numbers can obtained by companies such as Jet Multimedia and a caller will pay for use by duration.
France Telecom will charge the amount on the telephone bill and will pay the service company a part of the money.
"Jet Multimedia is not aiming to make money on the software. They want people to use their phonenumber and their existing servers," the spokeswoman said.
The system of paying for the use of Internet time, instead of paying a monthly subscription to an Internet Access Provider for a fixed number of hours of usage, could be attractive to people who are not great travellers in cyberspace.
These subscribers are currently served with subscriptions to AOL, the cheapest at 49 francs per month, CompuServe, Microsoft's MSN or Club Internet run by Hachette.
Jet Multimedia was founded under the name Jet Lag in 1989 and specialises in electronic publishing and multimedia technology. The company acquired telecommunication technology specialist Computer Answer Line (CAL) in September.
Jet Multimedia raised 43 million francs in April when it was listed on the small-cap market Second Marche at an issue price of 400 francs.
The company, 64 percent owned by management among which Peyre has 16 percent, had higher 1995 sales of 165 million francs but its net profit slipped to 7.2 million francs from 12.5 million francs due to acquisitions.
The group is France's third-biggest telematic services company -- offering database services via the Minitel -- after Axime and Assistance Genie Logiciel (AGL).
On Friday, Jet Multimedia shares were trading 17 francs or 2.34 percent lower at 710 francs at midday while the blue-chip CAC-40 index was down 1.9 percent. The number of regular users of Internet in France is currently estimated at between 300,000 and 500,000 people.
Two sons of Beijing's disgraced Communist Party boss, Chen Xitong, have been detained and face possible prosecution for economic crimes, Chinese sources said on Friday.
The fate of Chen himself was unknown. He was one of the most powerful men in China before his fall in April 1995 after one of his proteges, Beijing Vice-Mayor Wang Baosen, came under investigation for economic crimes and committed suicide.
"It all depends on the (party's) Central Commission for Discipline Inspection...(which) is investigating Chen Xitong," one source said in reference to whether the commission would hand Chen's case over to courts for prosecution.
Court officials, reached by telephone, declined to comment.
"This is a test of whether the government's anti-corruption drive is for real," the source said told Reuters. Critics say the campaign targets only petty officials.
Two sources with ties to the party said Chen's eldest son, Chen Xiaoxi, and younger son, Chen Xiaotong, were being held at the Qincheng Prison in a northern suburb of Beijing and faced possible prosecution.
The younger son has been in custody since last year but it was unclear when the older son was detained.
The sources said they were uncertain over precisely what charges might be filed against either of the two.
Prison guards were transferred to Beijing from other provinces to ensure the two men remained under tight security. Beijing was the political powerbase of the family.
Outlook magazine, published by the official Xinhua news agency, said this month that Chen Xitong's case "will not just fade away".
Chen Xitong, 66, has not been seen in public since April 1995 when he resigned as Beijing's Communist Party boss. He was ousted from the party's powerful Politburo in September 1995, becoming the most senior victim of a crackdown on corruption.
Chen, who was promoted to the Politburo in recognition of his hardline stand against student-led demonstrations for democracy in Beijing in 1989, is believed to be under virtual house arrest. He is officially said to be under investigation for "serious mistakes".
Unpublished party documents have said Chen, who ran Beijing for 12 years, first as mayor and then as party boss, had abused his office by amassing $24 million in unauthorised funds and lavishing favours on friends, associates and a mistress.
Chen gave nine flats around Beijing to his mistress and her relatives, according to the documents.
In December 1995, Beijing Vice-Mayor Zhang Baifa shed light on Chen's whereabouts. Zhang said: "His life is better than mine... He plays table tennis...eats what he wants."
A second source quoted official documents as saying the younger son illegally channelled government funds to his father's mistress, He Ping.
The younger son, a former executive of a Sino-Japanese joint venture hotel in Beijing, also tipped off his father's mistress about the vice-mayor's suicide and told her to go to Hong Kong and not come back, the source said.
The brothers are among China's so-called "princelings", or children of the ruling party elite who enjoy wide influence due to their top level connections.
Corruption was virtually eliminated after the communists came to power in 1949, but has staged a comback along with economic reforms in the past 17 years.
China issued a spirited defence of embattled U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on Friday, accusing the United States of trying to use financial blackmail to stop him from serving a second term.
Boutros-Ghali had helped push forward world development during his five-year term as U.N. chief and his re-election should have been assured, said the People's Daily newspaper, official mouthpiece of China's communist leadership.
The United States should reconsider its lonely stance as the only nation on the U.N.'s 15-member Security Council to oppose the Egyptian's re-election, the newspaper said.
Washington on Tuesday vetoed Boutros-Ghali's candidacy, accusing him of being too slow in pushing U.N. reform and saying his candidacy would further delay U.S. payment of $1.4 billion in membership dues owed to the world body.
"Lumping together Boutros-Ghali's reappointment and the payment of membership dues can only make people feel that someone is trying to blackmail the United Nations," People's Daily said in a signed editorial.
All U.N. members, whatever their internal politics, were responsible for paying dues and U.S. opposition to Boutros-Ghali was unjustified, it said in the latest of a series of Chinese affirmations of support for the U.N. chief.
"The United States has absolutely not raised any decent grounds for opposing Boutros-Ghali's renewal, but has just criticised him for being weak on U.N. reform," it said.
"You just have to respect facts to be able to see that this kind of criticism of inadequacy is not persuasive."
Boutros-Ghali's opposition to U.S. attempts to use the United Nations as a cover for policies of hegemony and power politics was a key factor behind Washington's opposition to his re-election, said the Yangcheng Daily newspaper.
The U.S. Republican-dominated Congress is delaying payment of the $1.4 billion U.S. debt to the United Nations, a policy helping to bankrupt the cash-strapped world body.
People's Daily said Boutros-Ghali had worked to push U.N. reform, had paid great attention to the cause of world development and had made a special contribution to development in Africa during his tenure, which ends on December 31.
Diplomats say African nations are currently driving the campaign for Boutros-Ghali's re-election, aiming to keep his candidacy alive as long as possible in the hope of a compromise solution or a change in the U.S. stance.
Boutros-Ghali said on Thursday that he did not wish to see his name submitted to the Security Council for another vote but also that he was not withdrawing from the race.
Washington's reluctance to propose alternatives to Boutros-Ghali was a sign of U.S. insecurity and its knowledge that any candidate it chose would be rejected by other nations, the People's Daily said.
"If the African nations continue to support Boutros-Ghali, the United States will face a difficult decision," it said.
"Many people hope the United States that cast the opposing vote will consider its position anew and solve this problem in an appropriate way.
Britain's investment watchdog on Thursday punished companies in the Robert Fleming group for rule breaches, with fines totalling 700,000 pounds ($1.09 million).
At the same time Hong Kong authorities secured voluntary compensation of nearly $20 million from a company jointly owned by the Jardine Matheson and Robert Fleming groups.
Britain's IMRO (the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation) handed down a 400,000 pound fine to Robert Fleming Asset Management (RFAM) and 100,000 pound penalties to three other firms in the group, while Hong Kong's SFC (Securities and Futures Commission) agreed the compensation package.
Failings exposed by the investigation were accepted by Robert Fleming Asset Management, which regretted the breaches. "We are embarrassed by it, there's no doubt about that," Paul Bateman, RFAM's chairman told Reuters in an interview.
The disciplinary action resulted from a five-month joint investigation by IMRO and the SFC into dealing procedures at Jardine Fleming Investment Management (JFIM) and related companies, with the co-operation of all the firms involved.
JFIM is a member of the Jardine Fleming group,
The probe revealed Colin Armstrong, a former senior fund manager and director of JFIM had engaged in late allocation of deals after changes in the price of the instruments traded had occurred, the SFC said.
His actions had resulted in three accounts managed by JFIM losing money and led to the group agreeing to make voluntary payments totalling $19.3 million to compensate these clients.
Armstrong made "substantial profits from trading in Japanese exchange traded options" for his own account, the SFC said. He has since cooperated With JFIM and had paid back any gains.
This has been used by JFIM as part of the compensation.
"The heart of the problem is JFIM. The weakness was their back office and procedures were not up to IMRO standards," said Bateman, adding the problem had been isolated to one fund manager, but said it had exposed systemic weakness.
With hindsight he acknowledged that these procedural and compliance monitoring problems could and should have been spotted earlier but said it was difficult to tell how much quicker it could have been dealt with, although there had been a steady increase in the management response.
Armstrong's behaviour had been an abuse of trust, but no decision had yet been made over whether it would result in court action, he added. Bateman said Armstrong had accepted the SFC termination of his registration as an investment adviser and securities dealer. ApaRt from fining the Robert Fleming subsidiaries that had delegated fund management of 1.2 billion pounds to JFIM, IMRO ended the registration of Robert Thomas, the former chief executive of JFAM and JFIM, who accepted he "bore ultimate responsibility for the compliance failures in the companies". JFAM has also had its authorisation brought to an end and the Jardine Fleming and Robert Fleming groups will offer its 10 customers
But IMRO denied the penalties were insufficient either as punishment or a deterrent against future breaches. "It always sends out a message to others when we take out a disciplinary action," an IMRO official told Reuters, adding the fines matched the scale of the breaches and the negative publicity would also have an effect.
Bateman said the Robert Fleming group would be in close contact with all of its clients, but said he did not expect any material loss from the findings and clients had so far been "understanding of the position". ($1=.6412 Pound)
The world potash market is churning, and Canada's huge Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc is in the middle of the upheaval.
Since Potash Corp, the world's biggest potash producer, said last week it had entered into talks to buy a controlling stake in a major European potash firm, its stock has zigzagged as the market comes to terms with a quickly changing picture of the potash world.  
"You're getting into an interesting part of the fertilizer world, and I don't know what will happen," said James Searls, a potash analyst for the U.S. Geological Survey in Virginia.
"It's going to be really curious."
Potash Corp wants to acquire a 51 percent interest in Kali und Salz AG from German chemical conglomerate BASF AG. If it succeeds, Potash Corp would control 25 percent of Germany's four-million-tonne-per-year potash market.
The deal would boost the Saskatchewan company's share of world production capacity to about 50 percent from 35 percent, analysts have said.  
But there is another player waiting in the wings, promising to make Potash Corp's consolidation plans more intriguing.
Asia Pacific Resources Ltd of Vancouver has made an important potash discovery in Thailand. The company says exploration so far has shown at least one mine is economical.
"We believe we've got the potential for than one," Asia Pacific president Gerry Wright said in an interview. "It may be two, it may be three or whatever."  
Wright believes the property will be producing about two million tonnes of potash by the turn of the century and between four and six million tonnes by 2005 -- a sizable chunk of the world's current production of about 40 million tonnes last year.
While Asia Pacific plans to take develop the mines itself, it has signed confidentiality agreements with eight companies in the hopes of finding a partner, said Wright.
Potash Corp is not among them, he said.  
He hopes three of the eight will sign non-binding agreements with Asia Pacific by October and one will emerge as a partner by the first quarter of 1997.
The attraction of Asia Pacific's find is its location, said analyst Sam Kanes with ScotiaMcLeod in Toronto.
"These mines appear to have twice the margin per tonne that Saskatchewan Potash gets, because it's so close to the market that imports all of it," Kanes said.
China and the Pacific Rim are growing potash consumers, he said, and the Thai deposits are convenient.  
But Wright has no plans to take on Potash Corp for its market share.
"We have no interest in getting into a tussel with existing suppliers to that region," he said.
The growing market will be big enough for everyone, he said.
But market growth depends on healthy economic growth in Asia, said Michel Prud'homme, senior minerals analyst for federal department Natural Resources Canada.
In 1995, the type of potash produced by Potash Corp had a surplus supply capacity of about 7.5 million tonnes, he said.  
"Any new major project would be jeopardizing current supply arrangements."
The recent developments have the stock market in a tizzy. Potash Corp shares soared on news of its negotiations in Germany, but it has been a volatile ride for the stock since then.
The stock dropped off Wednesday after a U.S. brokerage downgraded it from a buy to an outperform. But it was up C$2.50 to C$104 on Thursday, due to hedge buying by fertilizer distributors trying to sidestep an expected potash price increase, analysts said.  
"It will remain volatile until this deal with Germany is settled and until APQ is settled," said Kanes.
Asia Pacific lost C$0.10, falling to C$10.15, but the stock has been climbing steadily on news from Thailand.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100
The party of right-wing Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus took a solid lead in Senate election run-offs on Saturday, but turnout was dismal despite an appeal to vote from President Vaclav Havel.
With almost half the 81 constituencies declared, Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS) had won 19 seats in the new upper house, ahead of the opposition Social Democrats with eight.
The Christian Democrats, a junior partner in Klaus's centre-right coalition, put in a strong perfomance to take seven while the third party in the government, the Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA) won two.
Turnout was just 30.5 percent, lower even than the 35 percent recorded in the first round of the Senate polls on November 15 and 16, the Central Election Commission said.
Before the second round, Havel appealed to Czechs to turn out in far greater numbers for the sake of the credibility of the new upper house.
The Senate elections had been billed as key to the future of Klaus's coalition, which lost its lower house majority in elections six months ago. But analysts say that with turnout so low, the Senate results have little significance.
Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik, an ODS member, forecast that the government parties would take control of the Senate.
"It is clear that the coalition is leading at the moment and I think they still will be after the final results are out," Kocarnik told reporters, predicting that the ODS would win between 33 and 40 seats.
Analysts had forecast that voter apathy would benefit the ODS which is well-organised and well-funded by big business.
Its supporters, largely more affluent Czechs who have benefited from Klaus's free market reforms since the 1989 fall of communism, have been galvanised by the coalition's loss of its majority in the lower Chamber of Deputies in June.
Klaus, an architect of economic reform, repeatedly accused the Social Democrats of conspiring with the little-reformed communists to turn back the clock on reform.
Scepticism is widespread among Czechs and Klaus himself has questioned the need for the Senate, which was written into the Czech Republic's new constitution when Czechoslovakia split at the end of 1992, but is only now being elected.
The Social Democrats have said they would scrap the Senate if they ever achieved the three-fifths majority in the lower Chamber of Deputies needed to change the constitution.
Klaus toned down his scepticism as voting neared but only Havel has appeared enthusiastic about the idea.
Before the run-offs -- for the top two first round candidates in constituencies where no one won more than half the vote -- Havel appealed to citizens to turn out in much greater numbers for the sake of the Senate's legitimacy.
-- Prague newsroom (42 2) 24 23 0003
The three-party coalition of right-wing Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus won a majority of seats on Saturday in run-off elections to parliament's new upper house, the Senate.
But the premier's own party won fewer seats than expected after dominating the first round last week and voter turnout was dismal despite an appeal for Czechs to cast their ballots from President Vaclav Havel.
With all 81 constituencies declared, the coalition parties secured 52 seats in the Senate, the very existence of which many Czechs have questioned.
The result marked a turnaround for the coalition, central Europe's last centre-right government, which lost its majority in the more powerful lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, six months ago.
Klaus's own Civic Democratic Party (ODS) won 32 seats ahead of the strongest opposition party, the Social Democrats, with 25.
The Christian Democrats, a junior coalition partner, took take 13 seats while the third party in the government, the Civic Democratic Alliance, won seven.
The little-reformed Communists clinched two seats and two went to independents.
"I welcome the fact that the governing coalition took two-thirds of the senatorial seats, and that's a huge victory over the opposition," said Klaus, who sits in the lower house along with all other government ministers.
"The result in the second round isn't any surprising victory, but on the other hand the real fact that ODS has about 40 percent of the senators I would have to mark as successful."
The Central Election Commission reported that second round turnout was around 30 percent, lower even than the 35 percent registered in the first round held on November 15-16.
The centre-left Social Democrats, whose strong gains in June lower house elections stripped the coalition's majority, were saved the embarassment of a Senate dominated solely by their arch-rivals from Klaus's party.
"I am pleased that Senate will be a place of democratic discussion, and never the place of arrogant domination of one or another political party," Milos Zeman, the chairman of the Social Democrats and the lower house, told reporters.
Zeman's party has been beset by internal bickering since June, but the results of the run-offs -- between the top two first-round candidates in constituencies where nobody won more than half the vote -- could have been worse for the opposition.
"Most importantly the Senate won't be one-coloured or two-coloured as was expected, but multi-coloured," said analyst Jiri Pehe of Prague's Open Media Research Institute.
Before the second round, Havel appealed to Czechs to turn out in far greater numbers for the sake of the credibility of the new upper house but opinion surveys showed many had no interest.
The Senate elections had been billed as key to the future of Klaus's coalition. But analysts say that with turnout so low, the Senate results have little significance.
Klaus, an architect of economic reform, repeatedly accused the Social Democrats of conspiring with the Communists to turn back the clock on reform, and his supporters were galvanised by the coalition's June setback.
The Czech Republic has its first Senate since before World War Two, but an electoral win by the governing coalition appeared to have smothered talk of early general elections.
The three centre-right coalition parties took 52 seats in the new upper house of parliament on Saturday, but voter turnout of only 30 percent confirmed surveys showing many believe the Senate, with limited powers, is unneccessary.
Still, the result marked something of a turnaround for the coalition, central Europe's last centre-right government, which lost its majority in the more powerful lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, six months ago.
The Senate, written into the new 1993 constitution when Czechoslovakia split into separate Czech and Slovak states but not given authority until this year, was designed to be the reincarnation of the body of elder statesmen who sat in Prague until the Nazi invasion in 1939.
Klaus's Civic Democratic Party (ODS) won 32 seats ahead of the strongest opposition party, the Social Democrats, with 25.
But Klaus dampened speculation that his conservative minority government might use the victory this weekend to seek an early vote to the lower house.
While leaving his party's headquarters late on Saturday, Klaus was asked if the results confirmed his opinion, given after last week's first-round Senate vote, that early elections to the lower house should not be necessary.
"I think they did," he told Reuters. He did not elaborate.
His three-party conservative coalition won 52 seats after this weekend's runoffs for the 81-seat Senate.
After last week's first-round Senate vote, which gave Klaus's Civic Democratic Party the potential to win up to 79 seats, Klaus told Czech Television: "This country does not need another (lower house) election. It needs to function, work."
The opposition Social Democrats won 25 Senate seats, while the junior coalition parties, the Christian Democrats (KDU-CSL) and Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA) won 13 and seven seats respectively.
Analysts once viewed the Senate elections as a gauge for whether the coalition or the opposition would be in a position to seek a majority in the lower house through an early poll.
But voter turnout of only 30 percent made it hard for anybody to draw conclusions on what might be the result if early elections to the more powerful lower house were called.
"Most importantly the Senate won't be one-coloured or two-coloured as was expected, but multi-coloured," said analyst Jiri Pehe of Prague's Open Media Research Institute.
The little-reformed Communists clinched two seats and two went to independents.
A small but growing number of Canadians intend to raid the electronic halls of the Internet for holiday gift-buying instead of strolling through local malls, according to a new survey.
Three percent of Canadians with access to the worldwide computer network said they planned to buy a gift using the Internet, a Deloitte &amp; Touche Consulting Group survey said this week.
"It's 3 percent. It's much more than zero, one or two," said Augustin Manchon, a retail and consumer business consultant.
About 3 million Canadians will have access to the Internet by year-end, according to Michael O'Neil, senior vice-president of marketing research firm International Data Corp.
Once they are on the net, Canadians will have access to some 700 electronic malls, Manchon said.
Jason Zandberg, Pacific International Securities Inc. analyst, said that online shopping is starting to evolve. However, "it's not going to replace walking to a store and buying something."
Many people still like to feel the items they buy.
Recently International Business Machines Corp. unveiled partnerships to develop an Internet retailing outlet that would include a Web site for Canada's largest department store chain, Hudson's Bay Co..
Americans are more progressive than Canadians when it comes to online shopping but not by much, Manchon found. "(Interest is) still slightly under the U.S. but it's not bad for the first or second year," Manchon said.
Manchon also said that up to half of the people who have access to the Internet, estimated at 40 million worldwide, have already bought something using their computers.
And more retailers intend to take advantage of this increasing Internet use, the survey found.
Thirty percent of retailers said they're going to invest in the next few months in Internet-related technologies whereas only 16 percent said that last fall.
"So that's a dramatic increase," Manchon said.
Popular shopping items online tend to be electronic goods, which consumers like to comparison-shop, price-sensitive products and everyday purchases such as toothpaste and cleaning powders, Manchon said.
Companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the United States' largest retailer, have used the Internet to collect research about customers and test new products before installing them on their shelves.
Manchon also said Canada's retailers were expecting a better holiday season compared to last year's dismal showing. "The optimism is growing from month to month," Manchon said.
"It shows in the numbers of several retailers that we know," Manchon said. "We can confirm that numbers of many of them are going up, slowly."
The Czech crown rose on Thursday to its highest level against its mark/dollar basket, buoyed by comments by Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus that devaluation was not needed despite a widening trade gap.
The crown rose to 4.5 percent above the cross rate of the two-currency basket late in the afternoon and dealers said that, barring any central bank intervention, the newly-liberalised currency could go still higher.
By mid-morning heavy buying had pushed the Czech currency to 4.3 percent above the basket from just under four percent at the opening.
The crown strengthened to 26.014 to the dollar and 17.591 to the mark by 1430 GMT from Thursday's central bank fixing of 26.039 and 17.638.
The central bank followed the market up at its midday fixing, setting the crown at 4.24 percent above parity with the basket, compared with 3.9 percent on Wednesday.
Traders saw the fixing as a signal that the bank was content with the crown's rise and the market responded.
"When the central bank followed the market, the banks realised it was still time to sell (foreign) currencies again and the central bank won't be taking any action," said trader Tomas Novak at Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka.
Traders said as long as the government kept talking up the crown, foreign investors would respond until the bank decided to jump in and buy foreign currency.
The catalyst for recent strength of the crown has been official comments dismissing any need to devalue the currency.
Although the trade balance showed a record monthly deficit in July of 16.4 billion crowns, the market responded to comments made by Klaus in Austria late on Wednesday.
"The first (reason for the crown's rise) is Klaus's comments in Austria," Tomas Becvar, trader at Komercni Banka, said. "Another reason of course is the following of the market by the central bank at the fixing."
At an economic conference, Klaus backed central bank Governor Josef Tosovsky's view that a stronger crown would be better for the economy in the long term.
"We think that a devaluation is not necessary and that it wouldn't be useful," Klaus told Reuters in Alpbach, Austria.
While some economists have recommended devaluing the crown to help the trade position, many said it was not fundamentally necessary as capital inflows remain strong and the balance of services, especially tourism, narrows the current account gap.
The Czech currency last dipped below the parity rate against the basket in mid-June, soon after elections stripped Klaus's conservative coalition of its majority in parliament and strengthened the hand of the opposition Social Democrats.
Klaus was finally able to form a minority government of his centre-right coalition while the centre-left Social Democrats have been conciliatory on economic issues, including a 9.3 billion crown cut in spending to balance this year's budget.
The crown has since been on a steady upward path, first hovering around three percent against the basket in recent weeks, then surging after comments by Tosovsky's on Friday.
Since February, the central bank has had the option of fixing the crown in a band of plus/minus 7.5 percent from parity with the basket instead of its previous tightly controlled plus/minus 0.5 percent band,
The move brought the crown more in line with supply and demand on the open market.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
U.S. high-tech venture fund investment soared 50 percent in the third quarter as overall U.S. venture investment rose 25 percent in the seasonally-slow period from year-ago levels, according to a survey released on Friday.
"It is so hot it's scary," Kirk Walden, who compiles the quarterly Price Waterhouse LLP National Venture Capital Survey, said in an interview.
High-technology industries, from computer software and semiconductors to medical instruments, rose to $1.32 billion in the third quarter, accounting for two-thirds of the $2 billion invested during the period, the survey found.
Software investments alone more than doubled from year-ago levels to $596 million, and in the first nine months of 1996 alone reached $1.74 billion, more than the $1.34 billion recorded for the sector in all of 1995.
For the first nine months of 1996, total venture-backed investments in the country reached $7 billion, nearly the $7.5 billion reported for the full year last year.
"Based on the current rate of venture capital investments, 1996 will certainly be another record year," Donald McGovern, chairman of the Price Waterhouse Technology Industry Group, said in a statement accompanying the results.
The third quarter total figure of $2 billion was a sequential drop from the blistering $2.8 billion pace the industry recorded in the second quarter.
"Third-quarter numbers are traditionally lower than second- quarter numbers because deal flow slows considerably in the summer months," said Carl Thoma, president of the National Venture Capital Association. "But the venture capital industry still remains strong. Good deals are being made across the country in all industries.
Companies in the startup and early stages attracted the greatest level of venture capital investment, the study found, with these comprising 46 percent of the 444 companies receiving funds and accounting for $600 million invested.
On average startup companies received more than $3.1 million in funding and, communications firms accounted for nearly 56 percent of the total invested in this category.
Funding for Internet-related companie continued at the high level set in the second quarter of 1996, with 62 Internet- related companies receiving funding in the quarter exeeding the year-ago period by six times.
In a new trend, third quarter venture investment activity appeared to expand beyond the traditionally dominant Silicon Valley and New England areas, whose combined share of investment fell to 33 percent of value invested.
Typically the two regions account for some 40 to 45 percent of the total amount invested by venture funds, and experts said it confirms atriend towards more even distribution.
"Nobody in Silicon Valley is going to panic," because of the increase in funding outside the key areas, Walden said.
Czech pundits once looked at mid-November Senate elections as a possible beacon to cut through the political fog created by indecisive June lower house elections.
What is clear after the two-round vote completed this past weekend is only that many Czechs do not care about the Senate.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus and his centre-right coalition spent most of Sunday proclaiming that the results, in which the three parties won 52 of 81 seats in the newly created Senate, provided a strong mandate for the minority cabinet.
Klaus panned a Sunday headline in the daily Mlada Fronta Dnes calling the results in thin turnout a political "draw".
"(A draw) would be if it happened that the opposition won also in the Senate," he said in a debate on Czech Television. "That draw has been avoided."
Klaus's conservative Civic Democratic Party alone won 32 seats despite having a potential of winning 79 seats going in to the run-offs. Only a stronger-than-expected showing by the two junior partners gave the coalition control of the Senate.
The opposition Social Democrats, led by lower-house chairman and Klaus arch-rival Milos Zeman, mustered only 25 Senate seats after their strong June second-place showing moved Czech politics from centre-right domination into cohabitation.
With voter turnout a paltry 30 percent, it would be hard to argue that the Senate vote did much to alter Czech politics. Nor did it give a signal that the coalition might have enough support to seek new lower house elections.
"The result does not mean any move toward early elections... They would probably end in a draw," said political analyst Jiri Pehe of Prague's Open Media Research Insitute.
Klaus said that the vote confirmed that what the country needed was a functioning government, not new elections.
What the results primarily mean is that Klaus and his allies simply gain control of the upper house, which will be mostly a talking shop with few legislative powers.
But they are two votes shy of having a majority in the more powerful lower house, and the opposition could scuttle the legislative agenda of the coalition which remains as post-Communist Europe's last centre-right government.
Charles Robinson, an eastern Europe analyst at the independent research house Hilfe, said investors would welcome the relatively meaningless result for not giving any more power to the more interventionist Social Democrats.
"With the win there wil be certainly no added complications in getting (Klaus's) legislation through, and that's good news for stability, and it does mean that elections can be delayed until 1998 perhaps," Robinson told Reuters.
He said however that the Senate result might cause Zeman to sharpen his tactics against the government to draw deeper distinctions before any new elections might be called.
The biggest loser might be President Vaclav Havel who fought to give the Senate life after it was built into the 1993 constitution adopted after the split of Czechoslovakia, despite early moves by Klaus and others to block its creation.
Before the second-round vote, the politically neutral Havel called on his countrymen to turn out in force after just 35 percent voted in last weekend's first round.
His pleas were ignored.
On Sunday, Havel told Czech radio from his weekend retreat that politicians waged an "anti-campaign" against the creation of the Senate, and let pre-election partisan bickering take the place of discussing the choice of intelligent individuals.
Havel argued that after a few more elections, Czechs would come to realise that the Senate was important as the house of last resort in case of a constitutional crisis.
"The Senate is not dispensable," he said on Sunday.
A strong showing in runoff Senate elections at the weekend may breathe new life into the Czech governing coalition, but it will do little to resuscitate the country's dormant capital market, analysts said on Sunday.
The minority coalition of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus took 52 of 81 seats in the newly-created upper house of parliament, following the second round of voting, well ahead of the centre-left opposition Social Democrats which took 25 seats.
The Senate is a mostly advisory body with limited legislative powers, but the election was the first test at the polls for Klaus since his coalition lost its lower house majority in general elections in June.
But analysts said that while the news could have been worse for investors, the strong centre-right showing does nothing to solve the maladies which continue to plague the market.
"I think the market's reaction will be fairly positive, but in a few weeks time it will probably have settled down into acknowledging that this has not changed the situation of the past four or five months at all," Charles Robinson of the research house HILFE told Reuters.
"It has just not made it worse," he added.
The coalition's strong showing in the first round of voting last week helped spur domestic investor interest, pushing the market up in its wake.
Analysts said, however, that with this fillip already built into prices, stocks will probably not rise too much further in the near future.
The Czech crown also gained some ground against its dollar/mark basket on the back of the first round results, but it too should not rise significantly on the final outcome of the vote, they added.
"It seems that the final results of the elections reflect the current structure of the political situation here so I don't expect any significant changes or amy development as a result of it," said Miroslav Nosal of Patria Finance.
Analysts said that until legislation is tightened to bring about more market transparency and stronger minority shareholder protection, key foreign investor interest will remain low.
"I think there has been a result built into the market from the good Senate results last week, and everyone expected that the coalition would win this second round," said one analyst.
"There are still other difficulties that will keep the market relatively depressed such as a lack of regulation that will keep foreign investors away. This is a more important issue over the medium-term than the Senate elections."
The Prague Stock Exchange hit a new year-high on Thursday as major banking issues broke out of a recent slump to spur the bourse higher.
Komercni Banka and Ceska Sporitelna, the country's two largest banks both posted strong gains to help push the PX50 index up 3.3 points, or 0.58 percent, to a 1996 high of 574.9.
Overall, advancing issues narrowly outpaced decliners by 320 to 298, with 192 holding steady. Total volume remained steady at 916,194 shares on turnover of 648.3 million crowns.
Komercni, a likely recipient of attention from investors looking to enter the Czech market after an announcement of its inclusion into the Morgan Stanley index, jumped 99 crowns to close at 2,439.
Meanwhile, savings bank Ceska Sporitelna also posted a strong gain of 16 crowns to 351.
"The inclusion of the Czech Republic in the Morgan Stanley index should help boost issues like Komercni," said Jan Sykora of the brokerage Wood and Company.
Earlier in the day, Sporitelna CEO Jaroslav Klapal announced the bank expects 1996 net profit to total 2.1 billion crowns, while gross profit will hit at least 6.1 billion.
Klapal added that he expected the bank would pay a higher dividend in 1996 than its five crown per share dividend for last year.
"Gross profit, before the creation of reserves and payment of taxes could be slightly above 6.1 billion crowns," Klapal said. "We are counting on dividends for this year will be higher than that of last year."
Sporitelna's 1995 after-tax profit, calculated according to Czech accounting standards, plummetted to 263 million crowns from a previous 980 million crowns after the bank provisioned heavily for risky loans.
The bank's 1995 gross profit was 9.17 billion crowns but the bank assigned almost an identical sum, 9.13 billion, to its reserves covering "classified" loans -- those whose likelihood of recovery ranges from doubtful to hopeless.
Klapal did not say whether his forecasts were calculated according to Czech or international accounting standards, which vary mainly in terms of allowable write-offs and depreciation costs.
Even though analysts agreed that the financial situation of the bank was markedly better this year than it was last year, they said shares of the bank were overvalued.
Analysts say they are closely watching what appears to be a strong acquisition of shares in Sporitelna by the usually secretive Czech investment group Motoinvest and the rival bank Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s.
"The attractiveness of (Sporitelna) could greatly drop if Motoinvest took a more significant share in management," said Richard Podpiera analyst at the investment house Atlantk FT.
Foreign cash is holding steady in Thailand, hoping for economic and stock market recovery even though there are few signs of either so far.
"I think a lot of fund managers will be doing a lot of wishful thinking, but at the end of the day I don't think (Thailand) will be going anywhere in a hurry," Christopher Day, joint managing director at Thornton Management (Asia) Ltd said.
Most funds appeared to be neutral on Thailand against Morgan Stanley's widely-used Far East Asia ex-Japan free index.
Salomon Brothers said last week that research data suggested funds were neutral to overweight, while Nomura Research Institute said funds were neutral to underweight.
Thailand stock exchange data suggested a one-percent retail fund sell-off in October brought most funds into neutral.
"The worst should be over, both in terms of politics and economics," said Stephen Leung, BZW Asia's chief investment officer.
Investor nervousness has abated somewhat following the recent election of a new coalition government headed by the New Aspiration Party. But most commentators agreed the immediate direction of Thailand's SET index, which closed on Friday at 970.30 compared to a year-high of 1,402.81, depends on the announcement of cabinet appointments and new economic measures.
"There's a good chance we'll have a little rally back up to, say, 1,000 if (coalition leader) Chavalit Yongchaiyudh brings good people into his cabinet," said Christine Rowley, investment manager with LGT Asset Management in Hong Kong.
Rowley also said the SETI has performed strongly through December and January every year for 10 years.
"There's a very high seasonality element in Thailand," she said. "So we might see some little rally ... but I expect foreigners to sell into that and bring the market back down again, maybe even lower than it has been before."
Others agreed that more selling can be expected with funds assuming an underweight position while Thailand grapples with gaping trade and current account deficits, a slump in corporate earnings and a weak bank sector.
"Further market downside exists, though the extent of a decline will not be large," Nomura said in a research report.
Poor corporate earnings are considered the prime culprit. Jardine Fleming has reduced its corporate earnings forecast for 1996 to four percent from 14 percent, following a decline in price-earnings ratios to 16 from 18 earlier in the year.
Offsetting the bad news are falling inflation, some hopes of improved export competitiveness next year and expectations of better trade and current accounts on a decline in imports.
"Without the new measures, without an improvement in the current account deficit, we think the market will find it difficult to break through the 1,000 level," said Patrick Wong, investment director at Jardine Fleming Unit Trusts.
Wong is expecting some turnaround in the first or second quarters of 1997, partly because slower imports will ease the trade deficit and improve the current account deficit.
Most agree improvements in a current account deficit of seven percent of gross domestic product are needed before Thailand can turn around. But there is considerable scepticism about common forecasts of an economic and stock market recovery within six months.
"It's been six months away for a long time now. Lo and behold, the second quarter of 1997 is also conveniently six months away," Rowley said.
High technology venture fund investment soared 50 percent in the third quarter as overall U.S. venture investment rose 25 percent in the seasonally slow period from year-ago levels, according to a recent survey.
"It is so hot it's scary," Kirk Walden, who compiles the quarterly Price Waterhouse LLP National Venture Capital Survey, said in an interview. The survey was released Friday.
High technology industries, from computer software and semiconductors to medical instruments, rose to $1.32 billion in the third quarter, accounting for two-thirds of the $2 billion invested during the period, the survey found.
Software investments alone more than doubled from year-ago levels to $596 million, and in the first nine months of 1996 reached $1.74 billion, more than the $1.34 billion recorded for the sector in all of 1995.
For the first nine months of 1996, total venture-backed investments in the country reached $7 billion, nearly the $7.5 billion reported for the full year last year.
"Based on the current rate of venture capital investments, 1996 will certainly be another record year," Donald McGovern, chairman of the Price Waterhouse Technology Industry Group, said in a statement accompanying the results.
The third-quarter total figure of $2 billion was a sequential drop from the blistering $2.8 billion pace the industry recorded in the second quarter.
"Third-quarter numbers are traditionally lower than second-quarter numbers because deal flow slows considerably in the summer months," said Carl Thoma, president of the National Venture Capital Association.
"But the venture capital industry still remains strong. Good deals are being made across the country in all industries."
Companies in the startup and early stages attracted the greatest level of venture capital investment, the study found, with these comprising 46 percent of the 444 companies receiving funds and accounting for $600 million invested.
On average, startup companies received more than $3.1 million in funding and communications firms accounted for nearly 56 percent of the total invested in this category.
Funding for Internet-related companies continued at the high level set in the second quarter, with 62 Internet-related companies receiving funding in the quarter, exeeding the year-ago period by six times.
In a new trend, third-quarter venture investment activity appeared to expand beyond the traditionally dominant Silicon Valley and New England areas, whose combined share of investment fell to 33 percent of value invested.
Typically, the two regions account for some 40 to 45 percent of the total amount invested by venture funds, and experts said it confirms a trend towards more even distribution.
Despite losing out on two potential aircraft deals, McDonnell Douglas Corp's stock remains near its 52-week high, reflecting a strong balance sheet and expectations it will make an acquisition.
"The company is generating on the order of about $1.0 billion to $1.25 billion of free cash flow annually, which translates into between $5 and $7 a share," said BT Securities analyst Wolfgang Demisch, who has a buy rating on the stock.
That could enable the company to buy back shares or make a long-awaited defense acquisition, he added.  
Although it lost out on the race to build a next generation fighter for the Pentagon and rival Boeing Co was awarded a 103-plane AMR Corp deal, McDonnell Douglas shares remain relatively strong.  Shares were down $0.25 at $52.625 a share on Monday, $4.125 below a 52-week high of $56.75 but more than $10 above a low of $42.125.
In fact, losing out on the potential $2.2 billion in jet fighter contracts -- which could eventually be worth as much as $500 billion to the ultimate winner -- could prompt McDonnell Douglas to pursue an acquisition aggressively to build its defense business, analysts added.  
CS First Boston analyst Peter Aseritis said he expected the company's "board and management to take a fairly proactive stance...to do something in the merger and acquisition area."
Analysts also shrugged off Boeing getting the plane order from AMR's American Airlines, saying McDonnell Douglas was not a serious contender after it cancelled development of its next generation commercial plane, known as the MD-XX.
"They were never in the running," Merrill Lynch analyst Byron Callan said of McDonnell Douglas.  
"The events don't affect near-term earnings in either case," Goldman Sachs analyst Howard Rubel said of the lost jet fighter and American Airlines deals.
McDonnell Douglas management said the Pentagon business would have been a significant long-term program for it.  But analysts said the company still has a chance to capture future military sales, particularly with acquisitions to build its portfolio, which now includes the F-18 fighter jet, C-17 military cargo plane and Apache helicopter.  
"The things to keep in mind are, the joint strike fighter is a long ways away.  It doesn't affect McDonnell Douglas' business portfolio near term," Callan said.
Callan added it is possible the new fighter jet might not be developed due to U.S. government budget pressures. And, in the interim, McDonnell Douglas could make its existing fighter jets more affordable and more capable.
Analysts dismissed the ideas that takeover speculation has been boosting McDonnell Douglas shares.  Earlier this year, McDonnell Douglas was reported to be in preliminary merger talks with Boeing, but a deal never materialized.  "I don't think the people who own the stock today are looking at McDonnell Douglas as a takeover candidate," Callan said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787
Quarterback Doug Flutie led the Toronto Argonauts to a 43-37 victory over the Edmonton Eskimos and the championship of the endangered Canadian Football League on Sunday.
In what may have been the last Grey Cup game, the Argonauts overcame a driving snowstorm and a gritty Eskimo club to capture their first CFL championship since 1991.
Flutie, named the Grey Cup's most valuable player, silenced critics who labelled him a fair-weather quarterback after the Argonauts lost last year's bitterly cold championship game to the Baltimore Stallions.
The former Boston College star and Heisman Trophy winner as U.S. college player of the year also won the CFL's most outstanding player award this week after leading the Argonauts to a 15-3 season, the league's best record.
"That's the full package. That's what has been missing the last few years," Flutie said after winning his second Grey Cup since 1992 when he was with the Calgary Stampeders.
Flutie completed 22 of 35 passes for 302 yards and made a 10-yard scramble for a touchdown.
Canadian newspapers have reported that the CFL's new salary cap may prevent Toronto from paying Flutie's annual salary of $1 million Canadian (about $750,000 U.S.) -- the highest in the league.
The snowy, slippery contest was a typical Grey Cup in which weather played a critical role. The steady snowfall blanketed Hamilton's Ivor Wynne Stadium for most of the game and kept field crews busy.
Despite the conditions, it was the second-highest scoring Grey Cup game. The highlights included a 91-yard kick return by the Eskimos' Henry "Gizmo" Williams which set a new Grey Cup record.
The championship capped a chaotic, money-losing season which left many fans wondering if they will see the venerable Grey Cup next year.
"After a game like this, it would be a real shame if the CFL folded," said parka-clad Bob Forbes, one of 38,595 spectators who huddled against the weather.
Despite returning to its Canadian roots this year after a failed expansion into the United States, the CFL is dripping red ink.
The Grey Cup was not a sell-out, and all but one of the CFL's nine clubs will lose money, due to dwindling crowds and cash bailouts to keep teams in Ottawa, Montreal and Vancouver afloat during the 1996 season.
The 120-year-old Ottawa Rough Riders franchise folded in Canada's capital at the end of the regular season.
The cash-strapped Eskimos could not afford to fly players' wives to the game.
Average CFL attendance slipped to around 22,000 fans a game from 24,400 in 1995, despite a slick "Radically Canadian" marketing campaign trumpeting the league's national heritage.
Czech share prices rallied following the coalition government's win in weekend Senate elections, but analysts said the rise is due more to a technical correction than a change in investor sentiment.
The Prague Stock Exchange's PX50 index rose 0.86 percent at the bourse's daily price fixing, spurred by gains to seven of the eight most-capitalised shares.
Brokers, however, were muted in their optimism that the rally would last more than a few days, saying the centre-right government's strong showing was expected and already built into the market last week.
"Basically, this is a technically-led rally, I don't think it has a basis to do with Senate elections," said Jay King of the brokerage Wood and Company.
Added another local trader: "You're not seeing real volumes here you're just seeing prices being pushed up in anticipation of year-end, and without a doubt it is domestically driven. Foreigner investors are still on the sidelines."
The minority coalition of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus took 52 of 81 seats in the newly-created upper house of parliament, following the second round of voting, well ahead of the centre-left opposition Social Democrats which took 25 seats.
The Senate is a mostly advisory body with limited legislative powers, but the election was the first test at the polls for Klaus since his coalition lost its lower house majority in general elections in June.
But a thin turnout -- just over 30 percent of the electorate cast their ballots -- made it hard for the three-party coalition government, which lost its lower house majority in June, to claim it had recaptured voters' hearts.
The Prague bourse has been hard hit in recent months -- falling some 17 percent since September -- with most investors shying away from the a market characterised as opaque at best, and little regard for minority shareholder rights.
And analysts said that the election would probably not bring about a new push for changes to securities laws within the coalition, a condition that is necessary to lure back participants.
"I'm a little sceptical about the possibility that the Senate will help bring in changes," said Pavel Sobisek of Zivnostenska Banka.
"I think there will be a lot of pressure from market participants on the government to do something...but I have not seen any signs of a change in attitude of the coalition with respect to this topic."
Analysts said that the market should take some heart however, in statements made by Klaus following the vote when he said he saw no reason to call early elections for the lower house, which should keep the market stable in the near future.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
The purchase of British TV group Westcountry Television by Carlton Communications Plc slots another piece into the ITV jigsaw but analysts said on Monday it could be some time before the picture is complete.
"Westcountry was one which was on the table and Carlton have done well to snatch it but I am not convinced that there is going to be a massive rush for other ITV franchises," said Jason Crisp of Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull.
Carlton said on Saturday it had agreed to pay 85 million pounds ($143 million) for Westcountry, pipping United News &amp; Media which had also been seeking to acquire the privately-owned broadcaster.
Analysts said that high prices for takeover targets was likely to dampen down takeover activity.
The ITV commercial television sector is going through a period of consolidation under new media ownership laws. The two-licence ownership limit has been removed and replaced by a cap of 15 percent of television audience.
The Westcountry deal adds the south-western corner of England to Carlton's licences in the English Midlands and for London weekday television. Carlton, United News and Granada Group Plc are the three main players in the sector and are expected gradually to tighten their grip.
The Westcountry move was described as a "useful" addition to Carlton's portfolio but analysts said it should be seen in context, noting that its 1995 pre-tax profit of five million stg was tiny compared with Carlton's 123 million pounds operating profit from broadcast television.
Carlton pipped United News at the post for Westcountry and the two could square up again in a battle for control of HTV, the ITV broadcaster to Wales and an area of southwest England which includes the cities of Bristol and Bath.
"What this means is that there are two suitors for HTV -- Carlton and United News," said one industry source.
United News took a 20 percent stake in HTV last month but said at the time that it regarded the stake as an investment and was not planning a full bid.
The Westcountry and HTV franchise areas are usually sold as a single package to advertisers while HTV does all the transmission for its smaller western neighbour. A move for HTV, which has a market capitalisation of some 315 million pounds, would have obvious benefits for Carlton.
"Carlton can afford to pay more for HTV than anyone else because it could wring out greater cost savings," said Louise Barton of Henderson Crosthwaite.
While United News and Carlton vie for supremacy in the south, Granada is expected to take over its northern neighbour Yorkshire-Tyne Tees Television at some point.
Granada has made its intentions clear by taking a 27 percent stake in Yorkshire, a company valued at over 800 million pounds.
Granada is believed to be sitting it out, waiting for some of the froth to come off the Yorkshire share price before it moves for the rest of the company. ($1=.5941 Pound)
Heavily weighted bank stocks pushed the Toronto Stock Exchange to stronger territory at Monday's close, despite the fact that more issues fell than climbed.
The TSE's key 300 composite index gained 34.61 points to end at 5952.41, a little shy of its recent record close of 5966. Turnover was 94.1 million shares worth C$1.4 billion (US$1.04 billion).
"At the end of the day, it was only the banks and the utilities," said John Kellett, Royal Bank's vice-president of equities. "When the banks do well, it certainly gives a good tone to the market."
Declining issues edged out advancing ones 486 to 473. Another 288 traded flat.
Bank stocks soared ahead of year-end results, which will kick off with Bank of Montreal earnings on Tuesday. Canada's big six banks are forecast to unveil record profits for the third year in a row.
And analysts consider Canadian bank stocks still undervalued compared to U.S. issues.
"Today I think really what happened was U.S. banks were really on wheels," Kellett said. "Suddenly Canadian banks, which already had gone a long way, looked good."
The important bank sector led eight of Toronto's 14 sub-indices higher, gaining nearly 3.3 percent. Transports, consumer products and utilities followed.
The key gold group and base metals lost the most ground.
Among the hot stocks, the nation's second largest bank Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce rose C$2.25 to C$59.60 on 640,000 shares. The Royal Bank of Canada, the largest, gained C$2.10 to C$48.75 on more than one million shares.
Weakness in gold bullion prices in both London and New York hit gold stocks. However, Bre-X Minerals Ltd., which still embroiled in an ownership dispute over its huge Busang gold discovery in Indonesia, lost more ground due to the uncertainty. Shares fell C$1.35 to reach C$22.55.
Biotechnology firm Biovail Corp. International rose C$2.25 to C$40 in light trading after news that it settled patent litigation with Elan Corp. Plc after Elan had alleged infringement of drug patents by Biovail. Biovail, which also announced that it would list on the New York exchange on December 12, said it and Elan agreed to various cross-royalty payments on some current and future products.
Convenience store company Silcorp Ltd. rose C$0.15 to C$18.40 after news that it signed a definitive deal to buy the assets of Becker Milk Co Ltd. Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. said it extended its takeover offer for Silcorp to December 23.
Canada's Big Six banks are poised for a third straight year of record profits when they begin reporting year-end earnings on Tuesday, but analysts expect earnings growth to slow in 1997.
The group's combined profit is expected to top C$6 billion ($4.5 billion) for the year ended Oct. 31, eclipsing a record C$5.2 billion ($3.8 billion) in 1995, analysts said.
Most of the increase was due to higher investment banking and fee revenues and lower loan losses.
"It's going to be a very good quarter again, but we may be getting toward the end of very strong quarter-over-quarter growth," said Roy Palmer, an analyst with TD Securities Inc.
High-flying bank stocks may get a further boost if the group beats analysts' estimates for fourth-quarter profit gains of between 15 percent and 17 percent.
"If we get good news and they come in at or higher than analysts' estimates, I think you will see some significant strength," said Fred Ketchen, director of equity trading for ScotiaMcLeod Inc.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's financial services group jumped 176 points to close at a 52-week high of 5541.40 on Monday as analysts predicted several banks would reward shareholders with dividend hikes.
Bank shares have soared this autumn as foreign investors stampeded into Canada's financial markets, lured by declining interest rates, low inflation and a recovering economy.
The sector has added about 1,400 points since early September and powered the TSE to record heights.
Listings on the New York Stock Exchange have given Canadian banks a higher profile south of the border. Some U.S. brokers have issued buy ratings on Canadian bank stocks, which are considered cheap compared to U.S. issues.
But earlier this month, Canadian brokerage CIBC Wood Gundy lowered its recommendations on most of the group.
CIBC Wood Gundy analyst Mark Maxwell said the group's valuation multiples were averaging 1.7 times book value -- narrowing the gap between Canadian bank shares and their U.S. counterparts.
Maxwell said in a report that bank officials warned analysts that their estimates for average earnings growth of 14 percent in 1997 were too optimistic and that 8 percent was The earnings parade will kick off with Bank of Montreal on Tuesday and wrap up with National Bank of Canada on Dec. 5.
Bank of Montreal is expected to post a fourth-quarter profit of C$1.06 (79 cents) a share, up from C$0.93 (69 cents) a share a year ago, according to figures provided by the International Brokerage Estimates Service.
Bank of Nova Scotia's earnings on Wednesday are seen climbing to C$1.01 (75 cents) a share from 88 cents Canadian (65 cents) a share.
Toronto-Dominion Bank's earnings are forecast to rise to 74 cents Canadian (55 cents) a share on Thursday, up from 72 cents Canadian (54 cents) a share last year.
Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce -- the country's two biggest banks -- report next week.
Royal Bank's fourth-quarter results are forecast to be C$1.02 (76 cents) a share, compared to last year's 90 cents Canadian (67 cents) per share.
CIBC is seen improving to C$1.51 ($1.12) a share in the fourth quarter from C$1.26 (94 cents) per share a year earlier.
National Bank of Canada, the smallest of the big six banks, is expected to post a 42 cents Canadian (31 cents) per share profit, up from 33 cents Canadian (25 cents) a year earlier.
Czech shares rallied on Monday following the coalition government's win in weekend Senate elections, but analysts said the rise was due more to a technical correction than to a change in investor sentiment.
The Prague Stock Exchange's PX50 index rose 0.82 percent on the day, spurred by gains to seven of the eight most-capitalised shares.
Brokers, however, were muted in their optimism that the rally would last more than a few days, saying the centre-right government's strong showing was expected and already built into the market last week.
"Basically, this is a technically-led rally, I don't think it has a basis to do with Senate elections," said Jay King of the brokerage Wood and Company.
Added another local trader: "You're not seeing real volumes here you're just seeing prices being pushed up in anticipation of year-end, and without a doubt it is domestically driven. Foreigner investors are still on the sidelines."
The minority coalition of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus took 52 of 81 seats in the newly-created upper house of parliament, following the second round of voting, well ahead of the centre-left opposition Social Democrats which took 25 seats.
The Senate is a mostly advisory body with limited legislative powers, but the election was the first test at the polls for Klaus since his coalition lost its lower house majority in general elections in June.
But a thin turnout -- just over 30 percent of the electorate cast their ballots -- made it hard for the three-party coalition government, which lost its lower house majority in June, to claim it had recaptured voters' hearts.
The Prague bourse has been hard hit in recent months -- falling some 17 percent since September -- with most investors shying away from the a market characterised as opaque at best, and little regard for minority shareholder rights.
And analysts said that the election would probably not bring about a new push for changes to securities laws within the coalition, a condition that is necessary to lure back participants.
"I'm a little sceptical about the possibility that the Senate will help bring in changes," said Pavel Sobisek of Zivnostenska Banka.
"I think there will be a lot of pressure from market participants on the government to do something...but I have not seen any signs of a change in attitude of the coalition with respect to this topic."
Analysts said that the market should take some heart however, in statements made by Klaus following the vote when he said he saw no reason to call early elections for the lower house, which should keep the market stable in the near future.
Czech shares rallied on Monday following the coalition government's win in weekend Senate elections, but analysts said the rise was due more to a technical correction than to a change in investor sentiment.
The Prague Stock Exchange's PX50 index rose 0.86 percent at the bourse's daily price fixing, spurred by gains to seven of the eight most-capitalised shares.
Brokers, however, were muted in their optimism that the rally would last more than a few days, saying the centre-right government's strong showing was expected and already built into the market last week.
"Basically, this is a technically-led rally, I don't think it has a basis to do with Senate elections," said Jay King of the brokerage Wood and Company.
Added another local trader: "You're not seeing real volumes here you're just seeing prices being pushed up in anticipation of year-end, and without a doubt it is domestically driven. Foreigner investors are still on the sidelines."
The minority coalition of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus took 52 of 81 seats in the newly-created upper house of parliament, following the second round of voting, well ahead of the centre-left opposition Social Democrats which took 25 seats.
The Senate is a mostly advisory body with limited legislative powers, but the election was the first test at the polls for Klaus since his coalition lost its lower house majority in general elections in June.
But a thin turnout -- just over 30 percent of the electorate cast their ballots -- made it hard for the three-party coalition government, which lost its lower house majority in June, to claim it had recaptured voters' hearts.
The Prague bourse has been hard hit in recent months -- falling some 17 percent since September -- with most investors shying away from the a market characterised as opaque at best, and little regard for minority shareholder rights.
And analysts said that the election would probably not bring about a new push for changes to securities laws within the coalition, a condition that is necessary to lure back participants.
"I'm a little sceptical about the possibility that the Senate will help bring in changes," said Pavel Sobisek of Zivnostenska Banka.
"I think there will be a lot of pressure from market participants on the government to do something...but I have not seen any signs of a change in attitude of the coalition with respect to this topic."
Analysts said that the market should take some heart however, in statements made by Klaus following the vote when he said he saw no reason to call early elections for the lower house, which should keep the market stable in the near future.
China's breakaway Catholic Church has ordained about 50 graduates of one of the country's biggest seminaries into the priesthood this year, clergy at the seminary said on Monday.
The new priests, five of whom were ordained on Sunday, were the first group of clergymen installed by the National Catholic Seminary since 1991, they said.
The officially authorised seminary in Beijing did not accept any new students for six years from 1986 due to a lack of funds and space, the clergymen said.
"It's a big problem. Funds are too limited," a priest surnamed Meng told Reuters by telephone.
The seminary receives 10,000 yuan ($1,200) a year from the government, or one-sixth of its annual budget, another priest said. It raises the rest from donations.
Father Meng, who graduated in 1991, said there was no shortage of youths, many of them poor, who wanted to become priests.
He and other priests denied that government pressure had played a role in the lack of new students between 1986 and 1991.
Catholics in communist China are allowed to worship openly only if they belong to the state-sponsored Catholic Patriotic Association.
The association, which supervises the national seminary, appoints its own bishops and does not recognise the Pope as universal Catholic leader.
The official church has the blessings of the Communist Party but it too must walk a fine line between the demands of the party elite and the needs of the faithful.
The Washington-based Human Rights Watch/Asia has said Beijing has been stepping up harassment of unauthorised Catholic and Protestant groups in recent years.
The group said the crackdown on Christians included stricter controls on contacts with foreigners and was part of a broader drive begun in 1994 against all forms of religion as well as political dissent.
Bishop Zong Huaide of the state-backed church ordained five graduates of the seminary on Sunday. Zong delivered mass at the Church of the Holy Saviour, built in 1703, which was packed with about 3,000 people.
China has 31 seminaries and about 1,100 priests, 700 of whom are state-anointed young men.
The official Catholic Church in China counts four million members, while the underground church is believed to have several million members.
Vatican relations with Beijing have alternately cooled and warmed over the decades since the late 1950s, when links were severed over the Vatican's recognition of Taiwan.
China has said it will not normalise relations until the Vatican severs its ties with Taiwan, which Beijing has regarded as a rebel province since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
The Vatican, on the other hand, has demanded recognition of the Pope's primacy before it renews ties with China.
Authorities in central China's Anhui province have ordered three pro-democracy activists to stand trial on charges of counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement, a human rights group said on Monday.
The Hefei Intermediate People's Court in the Anhui capital was scheduled to try dissidents Shen Liangqing, Ma Lianggang and Huang Xiuming on Tuesday, New York-based watchdog Human Rights in China said in a statement.
A court official in Hefei contacted by telephone declined to comment on the case, saying questions related to it touched on matters that had "not been made public".
The group said the trial would be the latest step in a state crackdown on dissent that has seen many of the main figures in China's struggling pro-democracy movement disappear into prison or administrative detention.
There was little doubt about the likely result of the trial of Shen, Ma and Huang, all of whom had been detained at least once since they took part in an ill-fated campaign for more democracy in 1989, the U.S. group said.
"Although they must go for trial on (November) 26th, it has already been decided that they are guilty and must be punished," it said.
All were unemployed, though Shen had been a government official and Huang a manager at a company. Ma had been a student.
The evidence against the three stemmed from articles written and distributed in 1991, and for which all had already been detained for more than a year, the human rights group said.
"To suddenly try them again now is a typical case in the Chinese government's strict nationwide suppression of dissidents," it said.
Earlier this month, a Beijing court took just 10 minutes to reject the appeal of leading dissident Wang Dan and uphold his 11-year prison sentence for subversion.
The trial and failed appeal of the former student leader were part of a series of crushing blows delivered by authorities to China's tiny band of political dissenters.
Visiting U.S. and European officials and politicians have raised the case of jailed dissidents in talks with Chinese leaders, but have said individual human rights cases should not be allowed to disrupt overall ties.
China dismisses criticism of its human rights record as interference in its internal affairs.
Human Rights in Asia said observers were being denied access to the trial of the three Anhui dissidents, although the proceedings were officially open.
"It is believed this is another trial in which society and the free media are not permitted to understand the real situation," the group said.
The intermediate court official said he could not confirm any details of the case.
"We cannot answer over the phone, because this concerns a matter that has not been made public," the official said.
First-half results from Japan's 20 biggest banks show they have moved back into the black despite hefty write-offs of problem loans.
Analysts said figures released by 10 trust and credit banks on Monday showed that all of Japan's big banks had continued actively writing off problem loans resulting from the collapse of Japan's 1980s asset "bubble".
The 10 biggest commercial banks announced their interim earnings and loan write-off statistics on Friday.
Combined write-offs by the 20 biggest banks totalled about 2.4 trillion yen ($21.4 billion) in the first half of the current financial year to September 30.
At the end of March, the Finance Ministry said the 20 banks had about 25 trillion yen ($223 billion) worth of problem loans, which include loans made to bankrupt companies and those on which interest payments are in arrears by six months or more.
Last fiscal year, the 20 big banks disposed of nearly 11 trillion yen ($98.2 billion) worth of problem loans.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre, said the 20 banks may dispose of at least five trillion yen ($44.6 billion) worth of problem loans in the current fiscal year in order to cut the size of problem loans to manageable levels.
Analysts said many big banks were now recovering from the difficulties caused by the problem loans, but some financially-weak banks would continue to struggle to dispose of such loans in the coming years.
Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan, said that major banks should be able to cut their problem loans to manageable levels this financial year, but added that "some banks are still reeling from the bad loan problem."
Three long-term credit banks -- Industrial Bank of Japan, Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan and Nippon Credit Bank -- all recorded parent current profits for the first half after posting parent current losses in 1995/96.
Current profit is pre-tax and includes gains or losses from sales of securities.
The three said they disposed of 255.1 billion yen ($2.27 billion) of problem loans in the first half against a total of 1.93 trillion yen ($17.2 billion) last year.
The smallest long-term credit bank, Nippon Credit, said that it hoped to cut its problem loans to manageable levels by the end of 1997/98 at the earliest.
As of the end of September, problem loans at Nippon Credit stood at about 1.4 trillion yen ($12.5 billion) or nearly 14 percent of its total loans.
Japan's seven major trust banks, all of which posted parent current losses in 1996/97, said they posted combined parent current profits of 316.76 billion yen ($2.82 billion) in the first half after disposing of 1.02 trillion yen ($9.1 billion) of problem loans in the period. This compared with disposals of 2.69 trillion yen ($24.0 billion) last year.
A trust bank executive said the banks' combined parent current profit for the first half was a record as Japanese authorities had eased special reserve requirements for trust banks in March to free up funds to dispose of problem loans.
Analysts said the seven banks would use about one trillion yen ($8.9 billion) of the special reserves to write off problem loans in fiscal 1996/97.
Atsushi Takahashi, the managing director of Sumitomo Trust, told reporters that the bank aims to reduce its problem loans to manageable levels in the current financial year.
"We are planning to dispose of a total of 370 billion yen ($3.30 billion) of problem loans in 1996/97," he said. ($1=112 yen)
China gave new hints on Monday that its three-year austerity programme was over, pronouncing its anti-inflation fight a success and saying the new task was ensuring stability as the nation prepared to recover Hong Kong.
China's top leaders, after winding up four days of meetings on the economy, also said a key goal next year was to speed reform of ailing state enterprises.
"After three years of strenuous efforts, our national economy has had sustained, rapid and healthy development. The main task of keeping inflation under control has been achieved," the official Economic Daily said in its report on the meeting.
"Next year is an important one in our history as it marks the recovery of Hong Kong and the year of the 15th Communist Party congress," the official People's Daily said in a commentary that also called for economic progress in the midst of stability.
China slapped tight controls on government spending in 1993 to keep mounting inflation in check.
The credit curbs are likely to bring inflation below 6.5 percent this year, compared with 14.8 percent last year and a Communist-era high of 21.7 percent in 1994.
The fall in inflation has allowed China to cut interest rates twice this year.
Many economists have been expecting a further easing of monetary policies in the coming months as China is expecting a smooth handover of Hong Kong and social stability ahead of the key policy meeting of the Communist Party.
The British colony reverts to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997 and political planners in Beijing have been eager to ensure that there are no social or economic dislocations in the territory or on the China mainland to mar the transfer of power.
The party congress, scheduled for the second half of next year, is widely expected to result in an infusion of cash into the economy to bolster the standing of the current leadership as party personnel matters come up for discussion.
Merchant bank Kleinwort Benson recently forecast credit expansion of 20 to 25 percent next year, compared with 17 percent this year.
"Naturally there will be some easing (of monetary policy) next year," said Cheng Xiusheng, an economist with the Development Research Centre under the State Council, or cabinet.
He added that the monetary easing would be limited, and would not trigger a new round of inflation.
"The focus is relatively quick economic development under the premise of stability," he said.
Other economists agreed there would not be a return to higher inflation.
"If we have an adjustment, it will be a small one," said Zhang Zhuoyuan, director of the economics institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
He added that reform of state-owned enterprises was still the key problem facing China's economic planners.
State-owned enterprises have been losing money and massive subsidies have been draining state resources.
Political leaders fear that cutting off these subsidies would lead to layoffs and social unrest though economists have said the strength of the economy gives planners a chance to tackle this problem now.
Regulators are set to kick off a two-part plan to slash rates on overseas phone calls, a move that could save American consumers and companies billions of dollars but ruffle the feathers of foreign governments.
The Federal Communications Commission is expected Tuesday to make it simpler for U.S. and foreign phone companies to negotiate cheaper packages for connecting international calls to and from the United States.
Next month the FCC is expected to propose rules to cut the charges U.S. carriers pay foreign phone monopolies to complete overseas calls made from U.S. shores. "The ultimate goal is to get lower-priced and better-quality services for consumers," said Don Gips, head of the FCC's international bureau.
Officials say the foreign charges, or "accounting rates," run five to 10 times actual costs, reflecting the power of state-run monopolies unexposed to home competition. Monopolies control more than 90 percent of the non-U.S. market.
U.S. phone companies, as a result, paid their overseas counterparts $5.5 billion more in 1995 than foreign companies paid U.S. carriers to complete calls.  
"This figure would drop in half overnight if American carriers simply paid fees even vaguely related to costs," FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said in a recent speech. He noted that the imbalance dwarfs the U.S. foreign aid budget of $2 billion.
The United States has big imbalances with China, Jamaica, Mexico, Hong Kong, Colombia and Argentina, among others.
"Those few countries trying to defend their monopolies are going to be nervous" about the FCC effort, said Dan Rosen of the Institute for International Economics.
U.S. carriers support the strategy. "You've got to move accounting rates to cost," said AT&amp;T Corp Vice President Gerry Salemme. AT&amp;T said it must pay 45 cents a minute to have its calls connected to the Dominican Republic, but that the actual cost of the termination is 7 to 8 cents a minute.
The FCC actions come as the United States is seeking to open overseas telecommunications markets through talks sponsored by the World Trade Organization.
To cut rates and open markets, the FCC is adopting a carrot-and-stick approach. Tuesday's order is meant for open markets, such as possibly those in Britain, Canada and Chile.  
The FCC will waive its "proportionate return" rules that limit the ability of U.S. and foreign carriers to negotiate lower rates for terminating overseas calls. To win a waiver a foreign carrier's home market must be open to competition.
The existing rules require overseas companies to turn over their long-distance calls to U.S. carriers in the same proportion U.S. carriers send calls to a foreign carrier's home market. If AT&amp;T, for example, accounts for 60 percent of calls to a country, then that country's monopoly must hand off 60 percent of its U.S.-bound calls to AT&amp;T.
The FCC proposal due out next month would set "benchmark" rates for what U.S. carriers could pay foreign carriers to complete calls. These rates, according to FCC officials, would better reflect actual costs. The agency must still work out the details of how long a country would have to lower its rates and what steps could be taken if it refused to do so.
"It literally has the potential of savings consumers billions of dollars," said Scott Harris, an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher.
But the plan could rub governments the wrong way. High rates charged by their own phone monopolies can be used to maintain bloated payrolls or to subsidize local phone service.
Christian Salvesen moved to silence critics on Monday with plans to demerge its Aggreko business and make a 150 million pound ($253 million) special payout just months after shunning a 1.1 billion hostile bid.
Chris Masters, chief executive of the transport to services group, said his plans offered much better shareholder value than a rejected cash and paper bid from Hays Plc in the summer.
Masters said the demerger of its Aggreko equipment hire business was the culmination of a six year restructuring process which was now boosting the Edinburgh-based company's results.
Earnings unveiled on Monday showed first-half pretax profits unveiled surged to 51.6 million pounds from 45.0 million. Sales rose to 383.1 million pounds from 345.9 million.
"The board intends to pay special dividends totalling 150 million pounds, to continue the process of realising non-core assets and to demerge Aggreko within the next financial year," the company said in a statement.
In addition to an ordinary dividend of 3.8 pence per share for the half year, the group intends to pay an enhanced dividend of 17 pence now at a cost of about 50 million pounds.
"A foreign income dividend of approximately 100 million pounds will be paid before the end of March 1997," it said.
"The special dividends... represent the amount which the board considers the company should prudently pay, from both a borrowing capacity and tax perspective," Salvesen concluded.
Masters said in an interview the 150 million pound special dividend and demerger plan for the Aggreko hire business compared favourably with the 390 pence a share bid from business support company Hays that was dropped in August.
Plans for the demerger and special payout had been long rumoured, although earlier estimates said the special dividend had been expected to be worth 200 million.
Press reports put the value of the Aggreko demerger at around 400 million pounds.
Salvesen is due to brief institutional investors about its plans over the next two weeks. Some investors expressed disappointment earlier this year that the Hays offer was rejected, complaining about the severe underperformance of Salvesen's shares in the run-up to the bid.
By mid-afternoon Salvesen's shares were trading at 327-1/2 pence per share, up three and a half pence but off their highs for the day of 332.
In the months to August the shares underperformed the sector by 30 percent from the start of 1996 and by 10 percent against the FT-All Share index.
Since Salvesen rejected the bid, the shares have improved significantly and are currently outperforming the sector by 34 percent and the FT-All Share by 22 percent. ($1=.5941 Pound)
Christian Salvesen, the transport to business services group which rejected a 1.1 billion pound hostile takeover from Hays, said on Monday its special dividend and power unit demerger gave "much better" shareholder value.
Chris Masters, Salvesen chief executive, told Reuters in an interview "I think this (plan) is much better" and "more in the interests of our shareholders." He said he thought the 150 million pounds special dividend and demerger plan for the Aggreko hire business compared favorably with the rejected 390 pence per share bid from Hays, ditched in August.  
Masters said the plan to spin off the fast-growing hire group Aggreko was the culmination of a six-year restructuring strategy.
He added that a review to deliver shareholder value had already been underway before the hostile Hays bid was made in the summer.
The path chosen by the board made the best financial sense in tax terms as well, he added.
He said the Aggreko business was now ready to go it alone and had strong growth prospects. "It now operates in 20 countries and is a global market leader," he said.  
The logistics business, which will remain within the Salvesen group, also offered strong growth potential, said Masters.
"In Europe, logistics got half of its profits from food two years ago. Now that figure is less than 30 percent. Industrial logistics is growing at twenty percent per annum and the consumer business is growing at around 15 percent, with food manufacturing business also offering strong growth thanks to European deregulation."
Christian Salvesen will be making its case to institutional shareholders over the next two weeks, said Masters, in a bid to persuade them that this package offers a better deal than the 1.1 billion takeover bid from Hays.
The board has been under pressure to deliver after suffering share price underperformance earlier this year against the Financial Times All Share index.
--London newsroom +44 171 5427717
Australian paper and packaging group Amcor Ltd is expected on Monday to post a heavy slump in annual profit, due to lower paper prices and weak demand in its home market, but analysts feel the worst may soon be over.
The group, which recently warned the stock market its 1995/96 (July/June) results would be down on its 1994/95 record net profit, is tipped to announce a fall of around eight percent in pre-abnormal net earnings.  
Stock analysts are forecasting on average a result of A$372 million pre-abnormal profit in 1995/96, according to BZW Investment Management's BARCEPS forecasting service.
But Amcor, which is highly sensitive to both world paper prices and the Australian economic cycle, is coming off a record year in 1994/95, when a surge in paper prices and a strong local economy lifted the bottom line by 40 percent to A$359.7 million.
In the first half of 1995/96, prices turned against the group, which relies for 45 percent of its turnover on white paper sales, and the domestic economy has remained flat.  
Prices have fallen in the order of about 30 percent since their peak in late calendar 1995, one paper market source said.
In a sign of the times, Amcor's 46-percent-owned paper merchant Spicers Paper Ltd reported last Monday a 35 percent slide in annual net profit to A$16.02 million.
"There's been some pretty tough markets there and I think the Australian economy is flat and the paper cycle has gone against them a bit," said Brisbane-based analyst John Clifford, of Morgan Stockbroking Ltd.  
Sales are expected to exceed last year's A$6.6 billion, but margins have been squeezed and are likely to remain tight through at least the first half of 1996/97, the analysts said.
But Clifford and a Melbourne-based analyst told Reuters they saw pre-abnormal net profit stabilising at around A$400 million in 1996/97 and recovering the next year.
"As soon as there is some sort of pick-up in economic growth, you will see it start to improve," the Melbourne-based analyst told Reuters on Thursday.
"I am positive in the longer term," she added.  
Amcor, one of the world's top ten paper and packaging groups, has paper packaging operations in Europe, the United States, Asia and New Zealand. It has maintained double-digit growth in net profit for all but four of the past five years.
Despite the current downturn, it has continued to expand its offshore operations, buying 51 percent of Belgian UCB SA's flexible packing unit in May for about A$200 million.
It has also allocated A$380 million to expand paper production in Australia, where it commands about 40 percent of the market for fine papers.  
Morgan's Clifford said he believed these and other capital investments -- totalling A$1.5 billion over the past two and a half years -- would begin to bolster the bottom line in 1997/98.
"These sorts of programmes will certainly come through with increased profits through 1998 (1997/98) and especially through 1999 (1998/99)," Clifford said.
"The four to five-year outlook is pretty strong," he added.
-- Melbourne bureau 613-9286-1421
Federal regulators are set to kick off a two-part plan to slash rates on overseas phone calls, a move that could save consumers and companies billions of dollars but may ruffle the feathers of foreign governments.
The Federal Communications Commission is expected Tuesday to make it simpler for U.S. and foreign phone companies to negotiate cheaper rates for international calls to and from the United States.
Next month the FCC is expected to propose rules to cut the charges U.S. carriers pay foreign phone monopolies to complete overseas calls made from the United States.
"The ultimate goal is to get lower-priced and better-quality services for consumers," said Don Gips, head of the FCC's international bureau.
Officials say the foreign charges, or "accounting rates," run five to 10 times actual costs, reflecting the power of state-run monopolies unexposed to home competition. Monopolies control more than 90 percent of the non-U.S. market.
U.S. phone companies, as a result, paid their overseas counterparts $5.5 billion more in 1995 than foreign companies paid U.S. carriers to complete calls.
"This figure would drop in half overnight if American carriers simply paid fees even vaguely related to costs," FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said in a recent speech. He noted that the imbalance dwarfs the U.S. foreign aid budget of $2 billion.
While the accounting rates paid by both carriers are about equal, the imbalance reflects the fact that many more overseas calls are made from the United States than into this country.
The United States has big imbalances with China, Jamaica, Mexico, Hong Kong, Columbia and Argentina, among others.
"Those few countries trying to defend their monopolies are going to be nervous" about the FCC effort, said Dan Rosen of the Institute for International Economics.
U.S. carriers support the strategy.
"You've got to move accounting rates to cost," said AT&amp;T Corp. Vice President Gerry Salemme. AT&amp;T said it must pay 45 cents a minute to have its calls connected to the Dominican Republic, but that the actual cost is 7 to 8 cents a minute.
The FCC actions come as the United States is seeking to open overseas telecommunications markets through talks sponsored by the World Trade Organisation.
To cut rates and open markets, the FCC is adopting a carrot-and-stick approach. Tuesday's order is meant for open markets, such as possibly Britain, Canada and Chile.
The FCC will waive its "proportionate return" rules that limit the ability of U.S. and foreign carriers to negotiate lower rates for overseas calls. To win a waiver, a foreign carrier's home market must be open to competition.
The existing rules require overseas companies to turn over their long-distance calls to U.S. carriers in the same proportion U.S. carriers send calls to a foreign carrier's home market.
If AT&amp;T, for example, accounts for 60 percent of calls to a country, then that country's monopoly must hand off 60 percent of its U.S.-bound calls to AT&amp;T.
The FCC proposal due next month would set "benchmark" rates for what U.S. carriers could pay foreign carriers to complete calls. These rates, according to FCC officials, would better reflect actual costs.
The agency must still work out the details of how long a country would have to lower its rates and what steps could be taken if it refused to do so.
"It literally has the potential of saving consumers billions of dollars," said Scott Harris, an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher.
But the plan could rub governments the wrong way. High rates charged by their own phone monopolies can be used to maintain bloated payrolls or to subsidise local phone service.
Half-year results from Japan's 20 biggest banks show they have moved back into the black despite hefty write-offs of problem loans.
Analysts said figures released by 10 trust and credit banks Monday showed that all of Japan's big banks had continued actively writing off problem loans resulting from the collapse of Japan's 1980s "bubble" economy of over-priced real estate.
The 10 biggest commercial banks announced their interim earnings and loan write-off statistics Friday.
Combined write-offs by the 20 biggest banks totalled about 2.4 trillion yen ($21.4 billion) in the six months ended Sept. 30. Last fiscal year, the 20 big banks disposed of nearly 11 trillion yen ($98.2 billion) worth of problem loans.
At the end of March, the Finance Ministry said the 20 banks had about 25 trillion yen ($223 billion) worth of problem loans, which include loans made to bankrupt companies and those on which interest payments are in arrears by six months or more.
Katsuhito Sasajima, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre, said the 20 banks may dispose of at least five trillion yen ($44.6 billion) worth of problem loans in the current fiscal year in order to cut the size of problem loans to manageable levels.
Analysts said many big banks were now recovering from the difficulties caused by the problem loans, but some financially-weak banks would continue to struggle to dispose of such loans in the coming years.
Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan, said that major banks should be able to cut their problem loans to manageable levels this financial year, but added that "some banks are still reeling from the bad loan problem."
Three long-term credit banks -- Industrial Bank of Japan, Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan and Nippon Credit Bank -- all recorded parent current profits for the first half after posting losses in 1995-1996.
Current profit is pre-tax and includes gains or losses from sales of securities.
The three said they disposed of 255.1 billion yen ($2.27 billion) of problem loans in the first half against a total of 1.93 trillion yen ($17.2 billion) last year.
Japan's seven major trust banks, all of which posted parent current losses in 1995-1996, said they posted combined parent current profits of 316.76 billion yen ($2.82 billion) in the first half after disposing of 1.02 trillion yen ($9.1 billion) of problem loans in the period.
This compared with disposals of 2.69 trillion yen ($24.0 billion) last year.
Federal regulators are set to kick off a two-part plan to slash rates on overseas phone calls, a move that could save consumers and companies billions of dollars but may ruffle the feathers of foreign governments.
The Federal Communications Commission is expected Tuesday to make it simpler for U.S. and foreign phone companies to negotiate cheaper rates for international calls to and from the United States.
Next month the FCC is expected to propose rules to cut the charges U.S. carriers pay foreign phone monopolies to complete overseas calls made from the United States.
"The ultimate goal is to get lower-priced and better-quality services for consumers," said Don Gips, head of the FCC's international bureau.
Officials say the foreign charges, or "accounting rates," run five to 10 times actual costs, reflecting the power of state-run monopolies unexposed to home competition. Monopolies control more than 90 percent of the non-U.S. market.
U.S. phone companies, as a result, paid their overseas counterparts $5.5 billion more in 1995 than foreign companies paid U.S. carriers to complete calls.
"This figure would drop in half overnight if American carriers simply paid fees even vaguely related to costs," FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said in a recent speech. He noted that the imbalance dwarfs the U.S. foreign aid budget of $2 billion.
The United States has big imbalances with China, Jamaica, Mexico, Hong Kong, Columbia and Argentina, among others.
"Those few countries trying to defend their monopolies are going to be nervous" about the FCC effort, said Dan Rosen of the Institute for International Economics.
U.S. carriers support the strategy.
"You've got to move accounting rates to cost," said AT&amp;T Corp. Vice President Gerry Salemme. AT&amp;T said it must pay 45 cents a minute to have its calls connected to the Dominican Republic, but that the actual cost is 7 to 8 cents a minute.
The FCC actions come as the United States is seeking to open overseas telecommunications markets through talks sponsored by the World Trade Organisation.
To cut rates and open markets, the FCC is adopting a carrot-and-stick approach. Tuesday's order is meant for open markets, such as those in Britain, Canada and Chile.
The FCC will waive its "proportionate return" rules that limit the ability of U.S. and foreign carriers to negotiate lower rates for overseas calls. To win a waiver, a foreign carrier's home market must be open to competition.
The existing rules require overseas companies to turn over their long-distance calls to U.S. carriers in the same proportion U.S. carriers send calls to a foreign carrier's home market.
If AT&amp;T, for example, accounts for 60 percent of calls to a country, then that country's monopoly must hand off 60 percent of its U.S.-bound calls to AT&amp;T.
The FCC proposal due next month would set "benchmark" rates for what U.S. carriers could pay foreign carriers to complete calls. These rates, according to FCC officials, would better reflect actual costs.
The agency must still work out the details of how long a country would have to lower its rates and what steps could be taken if it refused to do so.
"It literally has the potential of saving consumers billions of dollars," said Scott Harris, an attorney with Gibson, Dunn &amp; Crutcher.
But the plan could rub governments the wrong way. High rates charged by their own phone monopolies can be used to maintain bloated payrolls or to subsidise local phone service.
Australian mineral sands and base metals miner RGC Ltd reported on Thursday that it had doubled annual operating profit for the 1995/96 year, thanks largely to a boom in demand for aircraft and golf clubs.
RGC, 40 percent owned by British conglomerate Hanson Plc, reported a 101 percent rise in operating profit to A$108.57 million (US$85.99 million) for the year ended June 30.
And it said it was on the lookout for expansion opportunities in Bolivia, India, Sri Lanka and the Ukraine.
The higher profit was due to improved mineral sands demand and prices, together with a stronger tin price and output, chairman Tony Cotton told reporters on Thursday.
"It was a good result and was in line with market expectations," Pru-Bache Securities mining analyst Quek told Reuters. "The mineral sands division did very well and there was an improvement in the tin business too," he said.
The higher mineral sands and tin prices helped lift sales 54 percent to A$986.39 million in 1995/96.
RGC, which tussles with South African miner Richards Bay Minerals for the title of the world's largest mineral sands miner, has about 30 percent of the world market for titanium dioxide (Ti02), which is used to make titanium metal.
"With Ti02 we have good news and bad news," RGC managing director Mark Bethwaite told reporters. "The good news is that U.S. growth forecast is very strong, around three to four percent, and there is strong titanium metal demand particularly because of some aviation growth and also of golf clubs.
"Titanium is now a favourite material to make golf driver heads," Bethwaite said.
As for the bad news, Bethwaite said: "In the U.S. and in Asia there is something of a price war going on.
"So prices are taking quite a battering," he said.
RGC, which has operations in Australia, the United States, Papua New Guinea (PNG) and Indonesia, was also keen on expanding to other countries, including Bolivia, India, Sri Lanka and the Ukraine, for mineral sands and base metal exploration, he said.
"What we are saying there is that we are ready and able to joint venture particularly with junior (small miners) and governments, where they seek a strong partner in both financial and technical capacity," he said.
The Sydney-based miner said it was one of three companies on the short-list to buy the tin assets of the Bolivian state-owned COMIBOL mining corp, which include a tin smelter and two mines.
"We are on the short-list for what is called the capitialisation of COMIBOL tin assets. There were four parties, there are now three, including RGC as one," Bethwaite said.
If RGC was successful with its tender to acquire the tin assets in the land-locked South American nation it would become one of the world's largest tin miners, he said.
RGC produced about 16,000 tonnes of tin in concentrate in the 1995/96 year. The two Bolivian tin mines up for sale would increase the group's annual tin output to over 35,000 tonnes.
The world's largest tin miner is Tambang Timah of Indonesia, which is expected to produce 41,500 tonnes in 1996.
Despite the better-than-expected profit, RGC shares rose just one cent to A$5.94 on light volume.
(A$1 = US$0.7920)
Korean Air Lines Ltd's cargo load factor dropped 3.2 percent in the six months to end-June this year compared to the same 1995 period, the airline's official traffic results provided to Reuters show.
The cumulative cargo tonnage carried to end-June was 448,000 tonnes, a rise of 8.2 percent over last year's 414,000 tonnes, the figures show.
International cargo in June was up 11.1 percent on last year to 60,000 tons, bringing the cumulative total to 335,000 tonnes, an 8.1 percent rise.
Domestic cargo in the month reached 16,000 tonnes, an increase of 6.7 percent from June last year, the figures show. The month's total cargo tonnage of 76,000 tonnes is 10.1 percent up on 1995.
Load factors for the month were 77.7 percent for international cargo in June down 0.1 percent last year. The domestic cargo load factor fell 1.8 percent to 38.7 percent. last year.
The cumulative totals are down 0.1 percent on the month compared to last June and 3.2 percent down on the year so far.
The international cargo flight tonnage kilometres (FTK) totals for June increased 16.4 percent to 407 million from 350 million last year.
The June FTK domestic total is up 10.3 percent from 5 million to 6 million. The cumulative FTK total is 9.1 percent higher at 2,315 million.
Korean Air also reported an 8.3 percent increase in the number of passengers carried in the first six months at 11,416,000. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44-171-542-7706 Fax +44-171-542-5017
Jardine Fleming Holdings Ltd said in Hong Kong on Thursday that clients should be reassured that revelations of front-running by one of its fund managers had prompted much greater emphasis on regulatory compliance.
"Clients must look at this going forward," Alan Smith, chairman of Jardine Fleming Holdings Ltd, told Reuters. "The important thing is to make sure you take the right action, and we've taken the right action."
A five-month probe by regulators in London and Hong Kong uncovered a series of irregular trades by a former senior fund manager at Jardine Fleming Investment Management Ltd, one of Asia's largest fund houses with US$22 billion under management.
The United Kingdom's Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong said fund manager Colin Armstrong delayed processing deals, allowing for changes in the trading price. Some of the deals involved his personal trading account.
In addition to the fines, Jardine Fleming agreed to pay the disadvantaged clients US$19.3 million.
"This incident was regrettable and we've expressed regret for it," Smith said. "Clearly as a result of this incident we've conducted a major review and we have a new emphasis on dealing and compliance procedures."
The SFC said it revoked the registration of the chief executive at Jardine Fleming Investment Management in Hong Kong, Robert Thomas. It also issued a public reprimand to the company.
"The SFC is committed to maintaining Hong Kong's reputation as an investment management centre in which bad practice will not be tolerated," SFC executive director Gerard McMahon said.
London-based Jardine Fleming Asset Management (JFAM) was fined 400,000 sterling and had its authorisation revoked, while three London-based companies in the Robert Fleming group were fined 100,000 sterling each.
The London-based companies delegated fund management to Jardine Fleming Investment Management in Hong Kong, which the SFC said failed to facilitate investigation when misconduct was suspected and lacked an effective audit trail.
"IMRO's investigation has amply illustrated the danger of firms paying insufficient attention to the responsibilities that arise when they delegate business to another entity, whether in the United Kingdom or overseas," said Phillip Thorpe, IMRO's chief executive.
Jardine Fleming was taking it on the chin, Smith said, but he noted that the five-month investigation identified problems with only one of about 40 fund managers.
"I'm not seeking to minimise the seriousness of what happened, but I think it's important you're balanced," he said.
Jardine Fleming has appointed a new chief operating officer at JFIM and a new head of compliance. The compliance section is being beefed up and centralised dealing structures are being created in Hong Kong and Tokyo.
"I think clients will understand that steps have been taken, and these do include a significant beefing up in the compliance system we have in place," Smith said.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin tried to reassure Taiwanese businessmen on Thursday, saying Beijing would not allow political differences to stand in the way of trade and investment.
"We maintain that political differences should not be allowed to affect and interfere with economic cooperation between the two sides," state radio quoted Jiang as telling visiting Taiwanese business leaders.
The economies of China and Taiwan were complementary, Jiang said, adding that the two sides should strengthen economic cooperation to benefit the entire Chinese race.
"We will continue to carry out our long-time policy of encouraging Taiwanese businessmen to invest," Jiang was quoted as saying. "No matter what the circumstances, we will protect all legitimate rights of Taiwanese investors."
A delegation of nearly 80 Taiwanese business leaders and politicians arrived in Beijing on Tuesday for a high-profile visit. Taiwanese economic officials are part of the delegation in a private capacity.
Taiwan has banned direct trade, transport and mail links with China since 1949 when the nation's Nationalist rulers fled to the island after their defeat by the communists.
Indirect trade and investment has been allowed since the late 1980s, usually through Hong Kong.
Jiang said China has always sought to speed up the establishment of direct trade and transport links with Taiwan.
Beijing has stepped up pressure on the island to lift the ban. Last week it unilaterally announced a set of regulations to pave the way for direct links.
Many Taiwanese businessmen, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, are eager for direct trade and transport, but Taiwan has been reluctant to remove the curbs, which it views as its last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
Kao Ching-yuan, head of the delegation, urged Beijing on Wednesday to resume talks with Taiwan, saying the island's investors would lose confidence in China if political friction impeded ties.
The talks were suspended last year after Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui made a landmark trip to the United States. Beijing views the island as a rebel province and insists it is not entitled to official links with other states.
Kao, vice-chairman of President Enterprises, a major Taiwanese conglomerate, was quoted by state television as saying the Chinese market had great potential and many Taiwanese businessmen were pushing for expanded economic cooperation.
President Enterprises is Taiwan's biggest investor in China.
Kao's visit came less than two weeks after Taiwan's President Lee called for a review of economic policy toward China with the aim of avoiding overdependence on the mainland.
The Taiwanese delegation was the largest to visit China since a trend of easing tensions was reversed by Lee's mid-1995 U.S. visit.
A former top judge who is vying to lead Hong Kong after China takes over next year has said the territory needs a neutral and impartial leader rather than a well-connected tycoon, and one who is tolerant towards dissent.
"I'm for tolerance," Yang Ti Liang, one of three candidates trying to become Hong Kong's first chief executive after Britain hands the colony back to China at midnight next June 30, told Reuters in an interview.
The 67-year-old Shanghai-born former chief justice, who shed his British knighthood a month ago, came through this month's first round of voting by a 400-strong China-backed Selection Committee with 82 of the votes.
He was well behind frontrunner Tung Chee-hwa, a shipping tycoon with strong China links who scored 206 votes, but ahead of another entrepreneur, Peter Woo, who scraped through with 54.
Tung has often been depicted as Beijing's favourite in the race. But Yang, who has emerged as the people's favourite in some recent opinion polls, and once with a lead of as many as 10 percentage points, is battling on, even though there will be no public vote for the top post.
"Of course the votes indicated that certainly the Selection Committee favours Tung much more than they favour me. It's an uphill battle. It's not easy. But I think there's still hope," Yang said.
Over the coming week candidates will be quizzed by committee members on their policies ahead of their final vote on December 11.
Asked if the committee was likely to heed his popularity with the public, Yang said: "I think to a certain extent it will. I don't think they will follow the poll to the letter. If there's a vast difference shown between candidates in the polls, the committee will have to take note."
Yang's campaign headquarters is a modest, cramped office rented in a hotel, in marked contrast the plush executive suites occupied by Tung. The "campaign" is a crusade to lobby business and interest groups, not the general public.
Yang described his greatest strength in comparison with Tung as his long experience as a fair, unbiased arbiter.
"I have no business connections or political connections ... having been a judge for the past 30 years. I am somebody above politics, above connections, neutral, impartial, as opposed to somebody who is very much in business and whose contact with the Chinese government is very good," he said.
"I think anybody who has a huge network with other people does give rise to the problem as to whether, if eventually selected, he might not be perceived to be influenced by these connections when making a decision."
Yang said Hong Kong's future leader would not face a test of courage in standing up to Beijing's communist rulers to resist pressure for a crackdown on anti-communist dissenters and pro-democracy activists.
"It's not a question of being brave or not brave. It's a question of looking at the letter of the law and seeing what it allows," he said. "I want to be on the side of tolerance."
He said he hoped a law on sedition, treason and subversion required by Beijing would not be enacted by the controversial interim legislature that China plans to install at the handover, but by a new long-term legislature to be elected in 1998.
Yang also said he believed the Chinese Communist Party, which has long operated underground and behind the scenes in Hong Kong, should register as a party under local law if it planned to be active in the territory after 1997.
A threatened proxy fight at Ashland Inc, coming at a time of widespread oil industry consolidation, may force the Kentucky-based energy company to restructure its diverse holdings.
Sources close to Ashland said the company is considering strategic alternatives, although it has not yet determined whether major action is necessary.
Meanwhile, Providence Capital Inc, which has been involved in similar efforts at other firms, is expected to pressure Ashland to enhance its value by breaking up its operations.  
Widely considered a regional oil refiner, Ashland owns 56 percent of Ashland Coal Inc, a substantial chemicals business and a highway construction unit. It makes Valvoline motor oils and owns SuperAmerica convenience stores.
Some industry analysts have said that Ashland, which is trading at around $46 per share, would be worth more than $60 per share if its businesses were separated.
Providence has formally told Ashland that it has nominated a three-man slate for election to the board at the January 30 annual shareholders' meeting. Shareholders will be asked to fill six slots on the 16-member board.  
Ashland spokesman Dan Lacey said the company has hired First Boston Corp to advise it on the proxy issue. A source familiar with the situation said Ashland also may discuss strategeic alternatives with investment firm Wasserstein Perella &amp; Co, which has worked with Ashland in the past.
Sources said New York-based Providence is not seeking control of Ashland, but instead wants to push a restructuring. Founded in 1991 by a group of merger experts at Jefferies &amp; Co, previous investments have included California Microwave, Duplex Products Inc and Ideon Group Inc It also has invested in Russia.  
Ashland earlier this month acknowledged Providence's interest, noting that it holds 100 shares of Ashland's 64 million outstanding common shares.
Ashland has declined to comment further on Providence, noting that it is prohibited from discussing the issue until it files documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a move that is expected by mid-December.
Providence and Wasserstein also declined comment. Sources said both Ashland and Providence recently have held meetings with institutional investors to discuss shareholder value.  
Industry experts think Ashland is primed to participate in industrywide consolidation, especially as Ashland veteran and Chief Executive Paul Chellgren moves into the role as chairman. He is replacing retiring longtime Chairman and former Chief Executive John Hall.
"Under his leadership, Ashland could be restructured along individual lines of business. If done correctly, we think it could lead to an increase in shareholder value of 25 percent or more," Bear Stearns &amp; Co analyst Fred Leuffer said in a report issued Monday.
The push for a restructuring comes as giant oil firms join forces to combat poor refining profits. Texaco Inc and Shell Oil Co are mulling an alliance of U.S. refining and marketing operations, while Mobil Corp and British Petroleum Co Plc have a similar venture in Europe.
And smaller refiners also are seeking partners. Diamond Shamrock Inc has proposed a merger with Ultramar Corp, Tosco Corp is buying Unocal Corp's West Coast refining assets and just last week refiner Valero Energy Corp said it was seeking an alliance for its natural gas services unit.
More than $1 billion in royalty payments to Texas Instruments Inc from Samsung Electric Co Ltd will bolster Texas Instruments's net income, and allow it to focus on more profitable lines of business.
But while the deal reassured some Wall Street analysts who were not already counting on the additional earnings from the settlement, others noted the terms appeared to be far less generous than one with Samsung in 1995.
The stock, which gained 4-3/8 to 60-7/8 by late Wednesday, was among the most actively traded stock on the NYSE.  
Earlier, Texas Instruments said it expected Samsung to pay it more than $1 billion as part of a 10-year technology cross-licensing pact. In exchange, each side agreed to drop pending patent infringement lawsuits against each other.
"Our assessment is that the agreement is at roughly 40 to 50 percent of the rate of the old agreement," Merrill Lynch analyst Tom Kurlak said, referring to the royalty formula for Samsung to pay Texas Instruments.
"Texas Instruments appears willing to take a lower number to get the suits dropped against them," Kurlak said. The analyst maintained an attractive rating on the stock.
Chrysler Corp minivans have came under fire again from U.S. safety regulators, as federal officials said Tuesday they stepped up two probes involving the vehicles' doors, including an inquiry into several dozen reported collapses of a 90-pound rear hatch.
Nearly two million minivans are involved in the investigations, which also include complaints that side sliding doors on 1996 models flew open at high speeds.  
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said it has received reports that 39 people have been injured when the rear lift-gate on 1991-1993 Caravan, Voyager and Town &amp; Country minivans dropped unexpectedly.
The problem occurs when retaining bolts holding two cylinders that prop the door open shear, according to NHTSA. The agency has received a total of 477 complaints. The probe, first launched in May and upgraded to an engineering analysis on October 31, covers 1,271,575 minivans.  
NHTSA also upgraded a preliminary investigation into 581,686 1996-model Caravan, Voyager and Town &amp; Country minivans. It has received 19 complaints that either the right or left sliding door can come open while the vehicle is moving.
Owners have reported the doors open anywhere from a few inches to fully open at speeds ranging from 15 mph to 60 mph. No injuries have been reported from the openings. NHTSA said it was not aware of any incidents involving vehicles built during or after January 1996.  
Chrysler was the first automaker to offer a sliding door on the left side of a minivan. The feature has made the U.S. No. 3 automaker's minivans the hottest seller in the popular family segment.
A Chrysler representative could not be reached Tuesday. But the company has told the safety agency the problem may stem from incorrect dealer latch adjustments, which the company attributed to an inaccurate service manual procedure.  
Chrysler also said eight of the complaints involved vehicles that had door repairs made. Chrysler said it has corrected the manual procedure and has made three design changes to various door components.
Still, NHTSA said it has continued to receive complaints about sliding doors opening, including vehicles with no repair history.
In 1995, Chrysler agreed to replace rear liftgate latches on more than four million 1984-95 model minivans, but stopped short of recalling the vehicles. Safety officials said the doors could pop open during low-speed crashes.  
Separately, NHTSA said it upgraded an investigation into 621,000 1995 and 1996 Windstar minivans from Ford Motor Co. Regulators have received 327 complaints about brake problems on the minivans, which have led to 76 accidents and two injuries.
In addition to the incidents reported to NHTSA, Ford said it has received 64,000 warranty claims that could relate to a brake problem resulting in long stopping distances.
Also, NHTSA said it opened an investigation into Land Rover's Discovery sport/utility vehicle. It has received two complaints that the right front door opened on 1996 models.
Rover is a unit of German carmaker Bayerische Motoren-Werke AG.
The Czech trade deficit jumped sharply in October, rising nearly 16 billion crowns, but analysts said they were not alarmed by the rise which is inline with their full year forecasts.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said on Tuesday the trade gap for the first 10 months of the year hit a record 125.5 billion crowns, up from a revised 109.6 billion crown shortfall for January-September.
The CSU, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and most analysts, however, have predicted the deficit -- accelerated by an economic slowdown with the country's main trading partner, Germany -- will finish at a record 150-160 billion crowns.
"The figures are developing according to forecasts. It's clear that the year-end deficit will be 150-160 billion crowns," said Kamil Janacek, chief economist at Komercni Banka.
"I'm not surprised by the jump since the economic revival of Germany will only show up in export growth in the first half of next year, not in one or two months," he added.
The CSU in a statement said that imports rose by 14.4 percent year-on-year for the 10-month period, down from 15.2 percent for January to September, while exports rose by 5.2 percent, down from 5.9 percent for the first nine months.
It added that strong growth in machinery and transport equipment imports continued, growing by 19.1 percent year- on-year and accounting for 38.3 percent of total imports.
Analysts said they were encouraged by the rise in this sector, saying that imports of this nature are needed to restructure industry, allowing it to produce more competitive goods for exporting.
"The trend seems unchanged. The financing of future economic growth is being done with imports, especially in the heavy machinery sector," Boris Gomez, an analyst at ING Barings told Reuters.
Added Martin Kupka of Patria Finance:"The country is still clamoring for machinery and raw materials which are necessary for industrial restructuring."
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, a monetarist-economist, has said the record trade deficit is "not tragic" saying it has come in part from a temporary foreign investment wave.
The Czech crown reacted indifferently to the trade figures, hovering around three percent above its dollar/mark basket parity, where it was for most of Monday.
The crown was trading at 26.919 to the dollar at 1230 local time (1130 GMT).
The rate implies a deviation from the midpoint of the currency basket of +3.09 percent, after the central bank's fixing on earlier on Tuesday at +3.00 percent.
"The market is neither alarmed nor pleased with the figure. If the deficit hits the forecast level, I doubt we will see any significant change in the currency's value," said one local forex dealer.
-- Prague newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Debt-laden Eurotunnel is awaiting the outcome of insurer investigations into the costs of the major fire aboard a freight train last week.
Lead insurer Union des Assurances De Paris (UAP) said on Tuesday it was "impossible to quantify yet the cost of the damage."
"Up to now, there is no reliable estimate of the amount of damage caused by the fire on November 18 in the south tunnel," it said, adding its maximum residual risk was 75 million francs ($14.4 million).
Eurotunnel said in a statement earlier that it will hold a press conference to update the situation on Wednesday.
The beleaguered tunnel operator also said the investigating judge had finished his inspection of the scene of the blaze, but insurers and company engineers were continuing to investigate.
The latest statements were made amid rife speculation on the cost of the fire, including unconfirmed reports of total insured costs of as much as 200 million pounds ($334 million).
Current restrictions caused by fire damage are costing the group a million pounds in lost revenue every day.
Eurotunnel was also hit this week by reports of possible claims from companies operating the Eurostar high-speed train service which runs through the tunnel.
Eurostar's British owners, the London and Continental Railways consortium, said there were provisions in its contract with Eurotunnel for reduced access charges if the tunnel was partially or fully closed.
Eurotunnel's spokeswoman said reduced access meant Eurostar (and possibly its French and Belgian counterparts) could see "a reduction to their payment."
She reiterated that Eurotunnel is fully insured.
"The insurance should cover loss of business, the rolling stock, damage to the tunnel, compensation," she said.
The company declined to comment further at this stage.
One source close to Eurotunnel said last week that the cost of fire damage alone to freight and to the tunnel could run to tens of millions of pounds.
"The cost will be millions (of pounds) and could get into double figures, if you consider the damage to the 15 wagons and a locomotive, plus severe tunnel damage," said the source.
The cost of replacing a whole train was estimated at around 25 million pounds.
A senior source close to Eurotunnel insurers told Reuters on Tuesday that the cost of replacing rolling stock could be "in the range of mid- to late-teens (of millions of pounds)."
Adding to uncertainty surrounding insurance cover was the possibility that any payout could be affected by suggestions that the train was on fire before entering the tunnel.
However, analysts seem confident the costs would be covered.
But some said the level of losses caused by the fire were belittled by the scale of Eurotunnel's total debts.
"In relation to Eurotunnel's other financial problem of 8.8 billion (pounds) in debt anything else is incidental, even if the fire cost is 200 million at worst," one analyst said.
Since the fire, Eurotunnel's shares have fallen from a close of 91-1/2 pence on November 18 before the fire broke out to 77-1/2 by the close on Tuesday. ($1=5.190 French Franc) ($1=.5990 Pound)
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke on Tuesday took the expected step of phasing out tax relief on profit related pay (PRP) schemes.
But analysts were pleasantly surprised the proposal still allowed new schemes to be registered as the tax relief is reduced and were relieved the Chancellor did not abolish the arrangement in one go.
Clarke said there would be no change to the upper limit of pay that is free of income tax, currently 4,000 stg, in profit periods beginning before January 1 1998.  
For 1998 the ceiling will be reduced to 2,000 stg and 1,000 stg in 1999. No relief will be given for profit periods starting on or after January 1, 2000.
"I'm not surprised that the relief was not abolished in one go," said Bob Rothenburg of accountancy firm Blick Rothenberg. "It would have created a lot of pressure on employers to compensate employees."
Douglas Fairbairn of Ernst and Young said he was relieved at the Chancellor's proposals, which could have included immediate abolition.  
For Fairbairn, the main surprise was that new schemes would be allowed at the lower rates of relief.
This was confirmed by the Inland Revenue, where a spokeswoman said if existing schemes were to be allowed to continue, it was only fair that companies wishing to introduce new schemes, even at the lower rates of relief, should be allowed to do so.
Fairbairn said the fact that new schemes were to be allowed, meant he doubted the government's estimate of the yield from the measure would be met.
The Inland Revenue said it expected the proposal to yield 100 million stg in 1997/98; 700 million stg in 1998/99; 1.7 billion stg in 1999/2000; and 3.1 billion stg in 2000/2001.
Tax experts contacted by Reuters said one other possibility for Clarke would have been to limit the relief on PRP to the standard rate of tax, which he reduced to 23 percent from 24 percent, rather than the marginal rate -- currently 40 percent.
After a slow start following its introduction in 1987, there are now around 14,000 PRP schemes covering 3.7 million employees. Take-up of the schemes increased considerably after the tax relief was doubled in 1991.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Bank of Montreal, Canada's third biggest bank, said Tuesday annual profits soared past C$1 billion ($750 million) as it kicked off the fourth-quarter earnings reporting season for the country's largest banks.
The Toronto-based bank, which has operations in Canada, the United States and Mexico, said net income jumped 18.4 percent to C$1.17 billion ($873 million) in the year ended Oct. 31. The bank's return on equity, a key measure of profitability, rose to 17 percent from 15.4 percent last year.
"These results represent the seventh consecutive year of record earnings and the seventh consecutive year return on equity was over 14 percent," Chairman Matthew Barrett said in a statement.
Bank of Montreal is the third bank to break through the C$1 billion threshold in recent years, following the Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
The bank attributed the record earnings to higher fees, volume growth in Canada and the United States and the impact of acquiring a 16 percent stake in Mexico's Grupo Financiero Bancomer SA de CV.
About 47 percent of the Bank of Montreal's total income came from operations outside of Canada in fiscal 1996.
Net income from its U.S. operations, where the bank owns Chicago-based Harris Bankcorp Inc., rose 6 percent to C$390 million ($291 million).
Earnings from Mexico rose 4 percent to C$57 million ($42 million). Other international businesses contributed C$102 million ($76 million) to the bank's bottom line, up 1 percent from 1995.
Speaking to reporters, Barrett said the bank should meet or exceed 10 percent growth in annual earnings per share going forward.
"There is sufficient counter cyclicality built into the range of businesses and range of geographies that we're operating in now that we continue to feel that we would be able to maintain that 10 percent EPS growth or better in the years ahead," Barrett said.
The bank's earnings were generally in line with estimates.
Fourth quarter earnings rose to C$1.04 (77 cents) a share from 93 cents (69 cents) in the same period in 1995.
"They were a little weaker than what I was looking for, but pretty much in line for intents and purposes," said Kevin Choquette, an analyst with Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc.
Choquette had forecast fourth quarter earnings of C$1.06 (79 cents) a share.
Improved credit quality also contributed to the bank's strong performance. It's provision for credit losses fell to C$225 million ($168 million) in 1996 from C$275 million ($205 million) in 1995.
Barrett told reporters that the bank will plan for a credit loss provision of C$275 million in 1997.
"We'll stick with that until we are six months into the year and see how the credit cycle shakes out," he said.
Bank of Montreal's stock closed down C$0.45 (33 cents) to C$44.20 (33 cents) in heavy turnover of 1.5 million shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The recent rally in Canadian bank stocks pushed Bank of Montreal's return on investment up 42.4 percent in 1996, compared to a 24-percent gain last year.
Despite today's weakness in Bank of Montreal shares, the TSE's banks and trusts index climbed 14 points to a new high of 6164.60.
Gold giant Barrick Gold Corp. is negotiating with Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd. to gain control of Bre-X's huge Busang gold discovery in Indonesia, the two companies said on Tuesday.
The companies were negotiating under the "guidance" of the Indonesian government, which asked Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick, Bre-X said.
Calgary, Alberta-based Bre-X discovered Busang, one of the world's biggest gold deposits, in 1994.
Official estimates of Busang have outlined 47 million ounces of gold so far, but analysts have said that number could rise to 100 million ounces.
"This is a result of Barrick working very hard behind the scenes to circumvent Bre-X's sale process," one analyst said of the news. Bre-X has been seeking a partnership with a major gold producer to operate Busang.
To satisfy Indonesia, Bre-X would keep 25 percent of its stake and 75 percent would go to Toronto-based Barrick, the world's third largest gold producer.
Bre-X said that the Indonesian government "would appreciate it if the parties could consider a 10 percent participation being given to the Indonesian government."
The Indonesian government wants Barrick and Bre-X to reach a deal by December 4 or else the government "will take steps to prevent a delay in the development" of Busang, Bre-X said.
Development of Busang has been held up by disputes between Bre-X and its Indonesian partners over ownership of the discovery.
Bre-X, which controls 90 percent of Busang, said it asked Indonesia's Mines Ministry if other deals would be acceptable, but had not yet received an answer.
A deal between the two companies was not a sure thing, Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said in an interview.
He said he had no details about how much money or stock would change hands or when a deal would be reached.
With the Indonesian government guiding the Busang negotiations, Bre-X's powers to negotiate a favorable deal were curbed, analysts said.
"There have been some constraints imposed on Bre-X," said mining analyst Chad Williams at Research Capital Corp. in Montreal. "That's going to negatively impact on how much Bre-X can receive for its interest."
But Barrick has an international reputation at stake and will have to be seen to treat Bre-X fairly, analysts said.
"Given the possible questions that may be raised over how Barrick obtained this special status, it will be essential that they are viewed as treating Bre-X shareholders fairly in any negotiations going forward," said an analyst who did not wish to be identified.
Barrick shares soared on the news, gaining C$2.30 to C$38.85 by mid-afternoon on the Toronto Stock Exchange. They rose 2-1/4 to 29-3/8 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Bre-X shares fell in Toronto before the news and held steady in active trading at C$20.10, down C$2.45, after the market digested the news.
Its stock has been volatile lately, clouded by the ownership dispute over Busang.
Busang would set Barrick well on its way to achieving its dream of becoming the world's biggest gold company.
In 1995, the company -- already North America's largest -- produced 3.1 million ounces of gold and had gold reserves totaling 43.3 million ounces.
It has become increasingly aggressive in moving towards its goal, analysts said.
Last summer, Barrick acquired Arequipa Resources Ltd. and its promising Pierina gold property in Peru for about $800 million.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416-941-8100
The Toronto market was boosted to another record close on Tuesday by strong buying interest in Barrick Gold Corp. after news broke that it is negotiating to gain control of a huge gold deposit in Indonesia.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index gained 23.15 points to end at 5975.56. Turnover was heavy, with 123 million changing hands worth C$2.12 billion (US$1.58 billion). Trading value was the fifth highest ever.
Barrick Gold, the world's third largest gold producer, announced that it was in talks with Bre-X Minerals Ltd. over its massive Busang discovery in Indonesia.
The market opened stronger, turned mixed at midday but surged again after Barrick and Bre-X announced their negotiations. The Indonesian government had asked Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick.
"That pulled the gold and precious metals sub-sector higher," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie.
Barrick, the world's third largest gold producer, has a relative weighting of 3.28 percent on the TSE's list of its top 300 stocks. Relative weighting describes the impact a particular share issue has on the 300 list.
Bre-X, which saw its shares tumble, is not included in the TSE 300 index.
Ten of Toronto's 14 sub-indices rolled higher, led by golds, transports, consumer products and real estate issues.
Sectors which lost a bit of ground were media, base metals, oils and forestry products.
On the broader market, declining issues still outpaced advancing ones 553 to 412. Another 305 traded flat.
Barrick rose C$2.45 to close at C$39.00 while Bre-X fell C$2.20 to end at C$20.35. Bre-X topped the most actives list, with 8.2 million shares traded, followed by Barrick at 5.9 million shares.
Other active stocks included Newbridge Networks Corp., which fell after brokerage Merrill Lynch cut the stock's rating to near-term neutral from near-term accumulate. Shares in the high technology products maker fell by C$2.25 to reach C$37.60.
The Bank of Montreal, which is Canada's third largest bank, slipped after it announced record yearly profits as expected. Annual profit soared past C$1 billion (US$745 million) but the stock, which had surged in recent weeks, dipped C$0.45 to C$44.20.
Czech President Vaclav Havel, former dissident playwright and leader of Prague's 1989 revolution against Communism, will undergo exploratory surgery on his lungs next week, the presidential office said on Tuesday.
In a statement, Havel's spokesman Ladislav Spacek said the president would have "a necessary operative procedure" on his lungs. A surgeon described the procedure as "medium-serious".
Havel, 60, was admitted to hospital on Monday more than a week after his office said he was suffering from pneumonia, causing him to cancel his official commitments for the rest of November and early December.
"X-ray findings cannot be specifed until a diagnostic operative measure is carried out," Spacek said. The symptoms or extent of Havel's illness have not been fully disclosed.
The Czech news agency CTK quoted the chief of staff at the Third Surgical Clinic in central Prague where Havel will be treated as saying the procedure was considered to be a "medium-serious operation as would be any lung surgery".
Havel is known to be a heavy smoker, but the illness has not been officially linked to his smoking.
The president cancelled a planned two-day state visit to Ukraine last week and on Monday called off plans to attend a summit of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on December 2 and 3 in Lisbon.
Spacek said the president was in "good physical and psychological condition" and is in constant contact with his office, monitoring events in the country.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus visited Havel on Tuesday, Spacek said.
The illness comes just as a sensitive post-World War Two reconciliation treaty with Germany, on which Havel has spent much effort, nears completion.
The treaty is to address issues arising from the Nazi occupation of Bohemia and Moravia and subsequent expulsion of ethnic Germans after the Czech lands were liberated in 1945.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said recently he hoped the treaty could be signed before the end of the year, and Czech politicians have been quoted in local media saying they expected a signing in mid-December.
The president's office has not commented on how his illness might affect the treaty.
Havel has had various ailments, none considered serious, during his nearly seven years as president of Czechoslovakia and later of the independent Czech Republic, after a peaceful split with Slovakia at the beginning of 1993.
He had urgent surgery last February after a polyp in his mouth started bleeding, but that incident was not considered serious.
Last January the president lost his wife Olga, who died of complications from tumors.
The Czech trade deficit jumped sharply in October, rising nearly 16 billion crowns ($600 million), but analysts were not alarmed by the rise, which was in line with their full year forecasts.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said on Tuesday the trade gap for the first 10 months of the year hit a record 125.5 billion crowns, up from a revised 109.6 billion crown shortfall for January-September.
The CSU, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and some analysts have predicted the deficit -- inflated by economic slowdown with the country's main trading partner, Germany -- will finish the year at a record 150-160 billion crowns.
"The figures are developing according to forecasts. It's clear that the year-end deficit will be 150-160 billion crowns," said Kamil Janacek, chief economist at Komercni Banka.
"I'm not surprised by the jump since the economic revival of Germany will only show up in export growth in the first half of next year, not in one or two months," he added.
The CSU said in a statement that imports in the first ten months of the year rose by 14.4 percent year-on-year, down from 15.2 percent in the first nine months, while exports rose by 5.2 percent after a 5.9 percent increase in January-September.
It added that strong growth in machinery and transport equipment imports continued, growing by 19.1 percent year- on-year and accounting for 38.3 percent of total imports.
Analysts said they were encouraged by the rise in this sector because the imports were needed to restructure industry, allowing it to produce more competitive goods for exporting.
"The trend seems unchanged. The financing of future economic growth is being done with imports, especially in the heavy machinery sector," Boris Gomez, an analyst at ING Barings said.
Martin Kupka of Patria Finance added -- "The country is still clamouring for machinery and raw materials which are necessary for industrial restructuring."
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, a monetarist-economist, has said the record trade deficit is "not tragic", adding it has come partly from a temporary foreign investment wave.
The Czech crown reacted indifferently to the trade figures on Tuesday, hovering around three percent above its dollar/mark basket parity, where it was for most of Monday.
The crown was trading at 26.919 to the dollar at 1230 local time (1130 GMT).
The rate implies a deviation from the midpoint of the currency basket of +3.09 percent, after the central bank's fixing earlier on Tuesday at +3.00 percent.
"The market is neither alarmed nor pleased with the figure. If the deficit hits the forecast level, I doubt we will see any significant change in the currency's value," said one local forex dealer.
-- Prague newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003 ($1=26.78 Czech Crown)
Colombia denied on Monday that its army was linked to paramilitary death squads and said the world should focus instead on the "cursed alliance" between leftist guerrillas and drug traffickers.
"Narco-guerrilla groups are heading a disinformation campaign throughout the world. ... The United States and the world must wake up to the new threat posed by the cursed alliance between drug traffickers, guerrillas and international mafias," Defence Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra said.
The comments were part of a fiery response to a report issued in Bogota by New York-based Human Rights Watch.
The organisation's report, titled "Colombia's Killer Networks," concluded, "The military has not only created paramilitary groups but allows virtually all of them to carry out political killings when it serves a common purpose, ridding the country of perceived guerrilla support."
The rights group, citing confidential defence documents, said U.S. military advisers fuelled the surge in death squads after helping restructure Colombia's gathering of military intelligence in 1990.
The organisation's legal adviser, Jamie Fellner, alleged that top army commanders Gen. Harold Bedoya and Gen. Manuel Jose Bonett were "accomplices" or tolerated such groups in a systematic "dirty war" on political dissidents.
Human Rights Watch echoed calls by London-based Amnesty International last month demanding the immediate suspension of U.S. and European military aid and arms sales to Colombia until human rights violations were curbed.
Human Rights Watch estimated that much of the $322 million in U.S. military aid to Colombia since 1989 had been handed out to counterinsurgency battalions accused of rights violations.
A U.S. State Department spokesman said in Washington on Monday there were no plans for tighter checks.
The Colombian Army was dramatically humiliated when the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia overran a jungle post in southern Colombia on Aug. 30, killing 27 soldiers and taking 60 prisoners.
"These soldiers are being kept in cells reminiscent of the infamous tiger cages seen in Vietnam. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch would do well to investigate those abuses instead of inventing new charges," Esguerra said.
British Petroleum Co Plc gave a lukewarm reception Tuesday to a Colombian proposal that would see it losing almost half the oil-rich Piedemonte field in return for sweeter contract terms on much of the remainder.
The proposal, outlined by Mines and Energy Minister Rodrigo Villamizar to reporters Monday, is the latest twist in a long- running saga that has seen BP trying to boost the profit margins on its Piedemonte operations while Colombia seeks to sidestep criticism that it is allowing multinationals to call the shots.  
Piedemonte, in Colombia's eastern plains is estimated to contain between 600 million and one billion barrels of crude oil and condensates.
But so far BP has only pinpointed three hydrocarbon formations -- Volcanera, Pauto and Florena -- accounting for about 15 percent of the total area, arguing that current overheads do not make it profitable to explore the rest.  
If Villamizar's complex proposal were accepted, a BP spokesman said it would require the company to hand back rights to the 85 percent of the Piedemonte field that is still virtually unexplored, with the guarantee that state oil company Ecopetrol would re-award BP half that area under improved contract terms.
The spokesman for BP's Colombian subsidiary, BP Exploration Co (Colombia) Ltd, told Reuters: "This is an interesting proposal but we regret that this solution would mean losing access to what is a large proportion of the Piedemonte field."  
He conceded it may be a possible way forward but indicated that it represented little more than an opening gambit in the search for a new working formula between BP, Colombia's single largest foreign investor, and Ecopetrol.
Under the so-called "sliding scale" terms of the existing Piedemonte association contract, profits are divided equally between BP and Ecopetrol while production remains below 60 million barrels. Ecopetrol's share rises as production increases, topping out at 76 percent when output hits 150 million barrels.  
BP had been pressing for the entire Piedemonte contract to be renegotiated using the new-style Factor R, which takes account of investment and operating costs in individual fields to ensure adequate profit margins for foreign companies.
But those demands were rejected by Villamizar last month following a congressional debate. Villamizar's new proposal, however, would open the way for a Factor R contract to be drawn up on that area of the Piedemonte field which BP would cede and then win back. Ecopetrol would then operate the rest of field itself or contract it to other private oil companies.  
Gustavo Triana, a senior official of the powerful USO oil workers' union, known for its fierce opposition to multinationals, said the union would not readily welcome any "underhand deal" that granted better terms to BP after the government had said it would not do so.
Britain risked China's wrath on Tuesday by proposing new laws on subversion in Hong Kong, laying down legal markers intended to head off Chinese-style jailings of dissidents after Beijing takes over the colony in 1997.
The colonial government unveiled draft amendments to Hong Kong's criminal law, ordered by Governor Chris Patten's cabinet, to cover crimes of subversion and secession. The bill will go to the Legislative Council next Wednesday.
Britain's move, after months of fruitless exchanges with China on the issue, was an effort to set down legal standards for China to follow after Beijing takes control of the territory at midnight next June 30, British officials said.
But the move was promptly attacked by Chinese officials. A spokesman for China's de facto embassy, the Xinhua News Agency office, was quoted by a local Beijing-controlled news agency as saying Britain had "violated promises on the transition" and London "must bear all the consequences of its actions".
Under a post-1997 Hong Kong constitution promulgated by China, the Basic Law, the territory must add laws against secession and subversion to the statute book after the handover.
Until now China has indicated it will have the law enacted by a new legislature it planned to install after the sovereignty transfer, sparking fears in Hong Kong that it will bring in draconian communist-style laws clamping down on dissent.
Mainland China has always eyed Hong Kong as a potential base of subversion, ever since revolutionaries used it as one of their bases against the imperial Manchu dynasty in the last century.
A Legislative Council motion in January urged the Hong Kong government to introduce pre-emptive laws on the issue to protect the civil rights of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people.
Fears were aggravated by remarks made by senior Chinese officials this year including Foreign Minister Qian Qichen and Beijing's Hong Kong policy chief Lu Ping, who set clear limits on post-1997 freedom of expression in the territory.
Britain's draft bill proposes adding the crimes of secession and subversion to the existing criminal law and clarifies the definition of seditious activity. It removes references to the present sovereign Queen Elizabeth, and refers only to Britain.
"It would not be desirable to leave a legislative gap in this important and sensitive area," an official said.
"It is quite clear that it is the view of the community that we should seek to have legislation on these concepts in place before July 1, 1997," said Secretary for Security Peter Lai.
The changes take a form that makes them easily adaptable by the future government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) that China will install, an official said, adding that all that would have to be changed in the law after 1997 would be the name of the sovereign state from Britain to China.
Under the amended law, sedition would carry a maximum jail term of two years, subversion and secession 10 years, and treason life imprisonment. In China these crimes can earn a death sentence. In Hong Kong the death penalty is non-existent.
The draft law makes clear the offences are related to the use of force to attempt to overthrow the government, and not to non-violent criticism of the regime or of the political system as in China, officials said.
"What the British seem to be doing is to set down legal standards that would give space to non-violent critics and dissenters -- a law that wouldn't put people like Wei Jingsheng or Wang Dan in jail," a source close to the government said.
Wei, the father of the Chinese democracy movement, and former student leader Wang Dan, were both given lengthy jail terms in China this year for subversion.
Both dissidents had criticised the government orally and in their writings and had called for democratic change in China, but neither man had resorted to violence.
China's foreign currency B shares went on another roller-coaster ride on Tuesday, with Shenzhen stocks rising 9.5 percent at midday before falling back to score a modest 1.27 percent increase on the day.
The Shanghai B share index was up 2.1 percent at the close after hitting its year-high of 54.475 at the end of the morning session.
Brokers said domestic investors were heavily in the market again in spite of a ban on the purchase of the B shares by local Chinese and selling by overseas investors was much in evidence, particularly in Shenzhen.
The B shares in both of China's stock markets have soared in the past 10 days on persistent rumours that the authorities plan to take measures to boost the market.
But one foreign analyst in Shanghai said it appeared that the implication the authorities would take no further action to limit domestic buying of B shares was enough to push them up.
"They're not going to make an announcement, but it would appear the authorities have let it be known that local investors can participate in the market," the analyst said.
"If that is true, then there will be some sustained momentum to the market," the analyst added.
The Shanghai B index rose 1.104 points or 2.10 percent to 53.766 points, on volume of 36.4 million shares worth $15.7 million, but off the intra-day year-high of 55.097 points due to profit-taking in the afternoon, brokers said.
In Shenzhen, the B index rose 1.70 points, or 1.27 percent, to end at 135.14 after touching an intraday high of 147.70 on turnover of HK$415.10 million, compared with Monday's HK$347.13 million.
"Heavy profit-taking pushed the index off its day high," said a broker at China Southern Securities. "But the (Shenzhen) index still has space to go up if there is no official denial of rumours that Beijing is considering market-boosting plans."
"With the index having gained about 50 percent over the past few sessions, the risk has become gradually higher," another Shenzhen analyst said.
Shanghai shares were pushed up largely by domestic buying of shares related to the Pudong development zone. But interest in the markets from foreign investors is gradually reviving as a result of the booming trade.
"Foreign investors are looking at China's B share markets again, encouraged by improved fundamentals of the B share companies and especially encouraged by the liquidity shown over the last few trading sessions," said Bruce Richardson of HG Asia in Shanghai.
Regulators took the first of two steps Tuesday to slash the cost of overseas phone calls for consumers and businesses, making it easier for U.S. and foreign carriers to negotiate cheaper international rates.
The Federal Communications Commission hopes to save U.S. callers billions of dollars by backing up the new rules with a separate proposal to be unveiled next month to cut the charges U.S. carriers pay foreign phone monopolies to complete calls from the United States.
Americans spend about 16 cents a minute for a domestic call. But they must shell out an average of 99 cents a minute to call overseas -- even though the cost of the calls are not much different, according to FCC officials.
"At 99 cents a minute, you're not going to get a global information highway," complained FCC Chairman Reed Hundt.
Tuesday's rules are targeted at countries whose own phone markets are open to competition from U.S. carriers, or are in the process of opening. FCC officials cited Canada, Britain, Chile and Sweden, as well as Europe and Mexico.
Under the plan announced Tuesday, the FCC will waive rules that limit the ability of U.S. carriers to negotiate cheaper calling rates with an overseas phone company whose own market is considered open. The rules were crafted to prevent market abuse by foreign monopolies.
Don Gips, head of the FCC's International Bureau, said the new rules "will allow competitive pressures, rather than archaic rules," to govern the telecommunications market.
AT&amp;T Corp. Vice President Gerry Salemme said they "can lead to a significant reduction in the amount that American consumers pay for international telephone calls."
Under the new approach, a company such as AT&amp;T -- with FCC approval -- could ask competing foreign carriers to bid for the right to handle AT&amp;T phone traffic from the United States to a foreign market.
Alternatively, a U.S. carrier could offer end-to-end service from the United States to a foreign market without using the existing rate system for completing calls.
Officials say these "accounting rates" run five to 10 times actual costs, reflecting the power of state-run monopolies unexposed to home competition. U.S. carriers paid their overseas counterparts $5.5 billion more in 1995 than foreign companies paid U.S. carriers to complete calls.
While the accounting rates paid by both carriers are about equal, the imbalance reflects the fact that many more overseas calls are made from the United States than into this country.
International calls from the United States account for about a quarter of all international calls worldwide.
To reduce the rates, the FCC proposal scheduled for next month would set "benchmark" rates for what U.S. carriers could pay foreign carriers to complete calls. These rates, according to FCC officials, would better reflect actual costs.
The agency must still work out the details of how long a country would have to lower its rates and what steps could be taken if it refused to do so.
The FCC actions come as the United States is seeking to open overseas telecommunications markets through talks sponsored by the World Trade Organisation.
The United States has big rate imbalances with China, Jamaica, Mexico, Hong Kong, Columbia and Argentina, among others. Next month's proposal is likely to ruffle feathers.
"There will be concern from countries around the world with the benchmark item. There's no doubt about that," said the FCC's Gips.
Texas Instruments Inc. said Tuesday it set a licensing pact with Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. of Korea that will generate royalty payments of more than $1 billion over 10 years.
In exchange, each side agreed to drop pending patent infringement lawsuits against each other.
The agreement replaces a previous five-year deal that expired at the end of 1995, the Dallas-based maker of computer chips, notebook computers and other electronics products said.
While the deal reassured some Wall Street analysts who were not already counting on additional earnings from the settlement, others noted the terms appeared to be far less generous than one with Samsung in 1995.
"Texas Instruments appears willing to take a lower number to get the suits dropped against them," Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas Kurlak said.
"Our assessment is that the agreement is at roughly 40 to 50 percent of the rate of the old agreement," Kurlak said of the royalty formula Samsung will use to pay Texas Instruments.
The new license, which runs until the end of 2005, covers a broad base of patents from both companies, including those for semiconductors, personal computers, consumer products and telecommunications equipment, Texas Instruments said.
"We are pleased with this agreement and the value it places on our patented technology," said Richard Agnich, a senior vice president and general counsel at Dallas-based Texas Instruments.
The company in 1985 started to more aggressively defend alleged unauthorised use of its technology in a bid to improve the value of its intellectual property within the semiconductor industry. In the intervening decade, the company has won billions of dollars in additional royalties, a spokesman said.
Texas Instruments said it expected Samsung to pay it about $105 million in the fourth quarter for "catch-up royalties" covering the first nine months of 1996 when the companies were battling in court.
Analysts said the "catch up" payments should substantially boost earnings for the quarter ending in December, but the gain will be offset by a charge for an undisclosed amount the company plans to take for an early retirmement programme.
Kurlak estimated Texas Instruments will see $35 million in additional quarterly royalties going forward as a result of the Samsung deal, but that is down from the roughly $85 million it received quarterly from Samsung at the end of 1995.
With this deal, Texas Instruments said it has almost completed its 1995 round of patent cross-license agreements with major semiconductor makers.
Earlier in the year, Texas Instruments reached 10-year deals with Fujitsu Ltd., Oki Electric Industry Co. Ltd. and Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd.
It said talks continue with NEC Corp. and several smaller producers.
The royalty payments will bolster Texas Instruments's net income, and allow it to focus on more profitable lines of business, analysts said.
Texas Instrument stock jumped $4.375 to $60.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Chrysler Corp. minivans have came under fire again from safety regulators, who said Tuesday they stepped up probes into two problems, including reports that a 90-pound rear hatch door can close suddenly without warning.
Nearly 2 million minivans are involved in the investigations, which were also sparked by reports that side sliding doors on 1996 models flew open at high speeds.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said it received reports that 39 people have been injured when the rear hatch door on 1991-1993 model Caravan, Voyager and Town &amp; Country minivans dropped unexpectedly.
The problem occurs when bolts holding cylinders that prop the door open shear, according to the federal safety agency. The agency has received a total of 477 complaints. The probe, first launched in May and upgraded on Oct. 31, covers almost 1.3 million minivans.
NHTSA also upgraded a preliminary investigation into about 582,000 1996-model Caravan, Voyager and Town &amp; Country minivans. It has received 19 complaints that the right or left sliding door can come open while the vehicle is moving.
Owners have reported doors opening a few inches or flying wide open at speeds from 15 to 60 mph. No injuries have been reported. NHTSA said it is not aware of any incidents involving vehicles built during or after January 1996.
Chrysler was the first automaker to offer a sliding door on the left side of a minivan. The feature has made the No. 3 automaker's minivans the hottest seller in a popular segment.
Chrysler agreed in 1995, under pressure from regulators, to replace the latches on the rear hatch doors on more than 4 million minivans but stopped short of recalling the vehicles, from the 1984 through 1995 model years. Safety officials said the doors could pop open during low-speed crashes.
Chrysler told the safety agency the sliding door problem may stem from incorrect latch adjustments by dealers, which the company attributed to problems with the service manual.
Chrysler also said eight of the complaints about side doors opening involved vehicles that had had door repairs made. Chrysler said it has corrected the manual procedure and has made three design changes to door components.
But NHTSA said it has continued to receive complaints about the doors opening on vehicles with no repair history.
Chrysler spokeswoman Michele Tinson said the automaker was working with the safety agency to resolve the complaints. Injuries reported from sudden closings of rear hatch doors have been minor, she said, noting Chrysler stood behind the safety record of its vehicles.
"Minivans are the safest vehicles on the road today," she said.
Separately, NHTSA said it upgraded an investigation into 621,000 1995 and 1996 Windstar minivans from Ford Motor Co. Regulators have received 327 complaints about brake problems, which have led to 76 accidents and two injuries.
In addition to the incidents reported to NHTSA, Ford said it has received 64,000 warranty claims that could relate to a brake problem causing long stopping distances.
Also, NHTSA said it opened an investigation into Land Rover's Discovery sport/utility vehicle. It has received two complaints that the right front door opened on 1996 models. Rover is a unit of German carmaker BMW.
Chrysler stock fell 25 cents to $34.75 on the New York Stock exchange in afternoon trading.
Deere &amp; Co. Tuesday reported record fourth-quarter and annual earnings as demand grew for its agricultural, industrial, commercial and consumer equipment worldwide.
Net income jumped 15 percent to $173.9 million, or 68 cents a share, for the quarter ended Oct. 31, from $150.6 million, or 57 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Revenues rose 7 percent to $2.9 billion from $2.7 billion.
"The company's operating margins remain strong as our focus on continuous improvement and growth is having a positive impact throughout our businesses," Deere Chairman Hans Becherer said in a statement.
But fourth quarter profits were less than some analysts had expected, although results did include a $15 million after-tax write-off to integrate and consolidate various Mexican operations.
Deere's stock dropped $2.625 to $44 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"Deere came in a little light on a reported basis," NatWest Markets analyst Thomas Burns said.
Profits for the fiscal year rose 16 percent to $817.3 million, or $3.14 a share, from $706.1 million, or $2.71 a share, last year. Revenues climbed 9 percent to $11.2 billion from $10.3 billion.
One area of weakness was Deere's commercial and consumer equipment business, such as lawn and landscaping products.
Worldwide commercial and consumer equipment operating profits fell to $1 million for the fourth quarter from $35 million last year, and to $118 million for the full fiscal year from $165 million a year ago. Deere blamed the drop on lower sales volume and increased promotional and growth expenditures.
"The one big operational shortfall that was very, very disappointing and was a surprise to us was the commercial and consumer business," Dain Bosworth analyst J. Blair Brumley said.
Moline, Ill.-based Deere said export sales from the United States continued to grow, by 20 percent to $1.58 billion for 1996 from $1.31 billion last year.
Overseas sales for the year remained very strong, rising by 26 percent to $2.75 billion, topping $2.5 billion for the first time in the company's history, Deere said.
Worldwide agricultural equipment operating profits jumped to $202 million for the fourth quarter from $135 million in the year-ago period.
Worldwide demand for John Deere agricultural equipment remains very strong, Becherer said.
Overseas agricultural equipment sales, which were strong during 1996, are expected to continue to increase in 1997 due to sales in Ukraine and Kazakhstan.
Industrial equipment operating profit fell to $34 million for the fourth quarter from $36 million last year. Deere cited increased development expenses associated with improving the fuel efficiency and emissions performance of new engines.
Net income of Deere's financial services subsidiaries was $47.6 million for the quarter vs. $41 million a year ago.
Looking ahead, Deere said it expected worldwide physical volume of sales to dealers on a comparable basis to increase by about 5 percent in 1997 compared with 1996.
Chrysler Corp said Tuesday it filed an appeal protesting a California Department of Motor Vehicle (DMV) ban on the company shipping new vehicles to dealers as a penalty for allegedly violating the state's "lemon law."
The move, which was expected, means the U.S No. 3 automaker can delay the 45-day ban taking effect for years as it pursues an appeal through the legal system.  
The ban, issued October 16, came after the DMV determined Chrysler resold 116 vehicles in 1991 and 1992 without properly disclosing to new owners the cars were so-called lemons, a term that refers to vehicles with chronic repair problems.
In its appeal to California's New Motor Vehicle Board, Chrysler called the DMV's actions a "draconian penalty." The company argues it complied with the lemon law as it was written at the time of the vehicle sales.  
Chrysler said the statute in effect at the time was vague about which vehicles repurchased by manufacturers had to be branded as lemons. Specifically, it said the law did not address disclosures relating to the resale of other vehicles bought back by automakers, such as those repurchased after informal dispute resoltions, or as part of a legal settlement.
Chrysler said it made good faith efforts to keep used car buyers informed about the vehicles they were purchasing. The company also complained about the economic ramifications of the penalty on its 240 California dealers.
"The economic harm to the dealers and their employees caused by this action has been well documented but ignored by the DMV," the company said in its appeal.
The New Motor Vehicle Board, which was set up to render an impartial view of regulatory actions, can reverse or amend the DMV's decision.
Chrysler sold nearly 170,000 new cars and trucks in California in 1995, representing close to eight percent of its annual volume, according to R.L. Polk &amp; Co.
The DMV ban, which would have taken effect November 25, was hailed by consumer advocates as the first tough stance aimed at ending the process of "lemon laundering."
French computer maker Cie des Machines Bull now has the freedom to deal with any other computer group in Europe following the sale of some five percent of its shares held by the government.
Thierry Breton, managing director of Bull, told Reuters in a telephone interview that the company still planned to be part of a restructuring of the European computer industry.
"With the support of our private shareholders, we can do that either by a market operation, by a merger or acquisition or by both," he said.  
"Rather than to wait for when the opportunity presented itself before doing anything, the shareholders decided to put us in a position so that we can act as a private company when the time is ripe."
Breton said others involved in the restructuring of the European computer industry included Italy's Olivetti, Philips Electronics of the Netherlands and Siemens AG of Germany.
"There are also the European units of U.S. companies that may be interested in participating in the restructuring," he added.  
Jean-Marie Descarpentries, the former McKinsey consultant who became chairman in 1993, earlier this year said Bull wanted the state to sell 20 percent to a fourth industrial partner, preferably European, and to financial investors.
Bull returned to profit in 1995 after posting combined losses of 22 billion francs since 1990.
The French government has said it plans to privatise Bull before the end of 1997.
Breton said the state share sale would take place after a capital increase amounting to "several hundreds of millions of francs."  
The state will subscribe to its portion of the capital increase, but resell its shares to private investors.
Motorola of the U.S., NEC of Japan and France Telecom, which each have a 17 percent stake, are expected to subscribe to their part.
"They are on our strategic commission. They come here every three months for two days. I think I can say that we have the support of our shareholders," Breton said.
IBM, which has 1.6 percent, is not expected to join in the capital increase. It has passed up two previous opportunities.  
Japan's Dai Nippon Printing, with 3.3 percent, has been invited to join the capital increase.
Bull in February effectively withdrew from the personal computer market by merging its Zenith Data division with Packard Bell Electronics Inc.
Breton said the company was standing by its profit forecast of higher profits in 1996 compared with a 306 million profit in 1995, but he declined to confirm the group was aiming for more than 600 million.
"We keep our forecast, we are on line to deliver on our promise," Breton said.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452
The French government said on Tuesday it was to complete the privatisation of computer-maker Cie des Machines Bull by selling another stake of at least five percent.
The sale, after a capital increase of "several hundreds of millions of francs" will reduce the government's share in the company, both directly and through the national telecoms company France Telecom to below 50 percent.
The Paris Bourse said it had suspended Bull's shares, which last traded at 33 French francs ($6.36), at the company's request until after completion of the operation which will take several weeks.
Japan's NEC, Motorola of the U.S. and France Telecom have a 17 percent Bull stake each and are expected to subscribe to the capital increase.
The state, with a 36 percent stake, will first subscribe to the capital increase and then sell the shares to private investors.
IBM, which has 1.6 percent, is expected not to join in the capital increase. It had also passed at two previous occasions. Japan's Dai Nippon Printing, 3.3 percent, has been invited to join in the capital increase.
The Finance Ministry said in a statement it will decided on the issue price and the identity of the buyers after advice by the independent Privatisation Commission.
Interested parties have 15-days to express their interest in blocks of at least 1.4 million shares, or one percent of Bull.
Thierry Breton, managing director, told Reuters the operation would give Bull the freedom to decide on any mergers or acquisitions while it played its role in the restructuring of the European computer industry.
"With the support of our private shareholders, we can do that either by a market operation, by a merger or acquisition or by both," he said.
Jean-Marie Descarpentries, the former McKinsey consultant made chairman in 1993, said earlier this year that the company wanted the state to sell a 20 percent stake to a fourth industrial partner, preferably European, and financial investors.
"Rather than to wait for when the opportunity presented itself before doing anything, the shareholders have decided to put us in a position so that we could act as a private company when the time is ripe," Breton said when asked whether today's announcement meant the industrial plans had changed.
Breton said the other companies invloved in the restructuring of the European computer industry were Italy's Olivetti, Philips Electronics of the Netherlands and Siemens AG of Germany. "There are also the European units of U.S. companies that may be interested in participating in the restructuring," he said.
Bull came back to the black in 1995 after combined losses of 22 billion francs since 1990. Breton said the company kept its profit forecast of higher 1996 profits, after 306 million in 1995, but he declined to confirm the group aimed at more than 600 million.
"We keep our forecast, we are on line to deliver on our promise," Breton said.
Bull in February effectively withdrew from the troubled personal computer market by merging its Zenith Data division with Packard Bell Electronics Inc of the U.S. ($1=5.190 French Franc)
North America's largest gold producer, Barrick Gold Corp., is negotiating with Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd. to gain control of Bre-X's huge Busang gold discovery in Indonesia, the companies said Tuesday.
Acquiring a stake in Busang would set Barrick well on its way to becoming the world's biggest gold producer, industry analysts said. It is currently ranked third.
Barrick has become increasingly aggressive in moving toward its goal, analysts said. Last summer, it acquired Arequipa Resources Ltd. including its promising Pierina gold property in Peru, for about $800 million.
The companies were negotiating under the guidance of the Indonesian government, which asked Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick, Bre-X said.
Calgary, Alberta-based Bre-X discovered Busang, one of the world's biggest gold deposits, in 1994.
Official estimates of Busang have outlined 47 million ounces of gold so far, but industry analysts have said that number could rise to 100 million ounces.
"This is a result of Barrick working very hard behind the scenes to circumvent Bre-X's sale process," one analyst said. Bre-X has been seeking a partnership with a major gold producer to operate Busang.
To satisfy Indonesia, Bre-X would keep 25 percent of its stake and 75 percent would go to Toronto-based Barrick.
Bre-X said the Indonesian government "would appreciate it if the parties could consider a 10 percent participation being given to the Indonesian government."
The Indonesian government wants Barrick and Bre-X to reach a deal by Dec. 4, or else the government "will take steps to prevent a delay in the development" of Busang, Bre-X said.
Development of Busang has been held up by disputes between Bre-X and its Indonesian partners over ownership of the discovery. Bre-X, which controls 90 percent of Busang, said it asked Indonesia's Mines Ministry if other deals would be acceptable, but had not yet received an answer.
A deal between the two companies was not a sure thing, Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said.
With the Indonesian government guiding the Busang negotiations, Bre-X's powers to negotiate a favourable deal appear to be curbed, analysts said.
"There have been some constraints imposed on Bre-X," said analyst Chad Williams at Research Capital Corp. in Montreal. "That's going to negatively impact on how much Bre-X can receive for its interest."
Barrick has an international reputation at stake and will have to be seen as treating Bre-X fairly, analysts said.
"Given the possible questions that may be raised over how Barrick obtained this special status, it will be essential that they are viewed as treating Bre-X shareholders fairly in any negotiations going forward," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.
Barrick shares soared on the news, gaining C$2.45 ($1.82) to C$39 ($29.05) on the Toronto Stock Exchange. They rose $1.75 to $28.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Bre-X shares fell in Toronto before the news and held steady at C$20.35 ($15.16), down C$2.20 ($1.64) afterward. The stock has been volatile lately, clouded by the ownership dispute over Busang.
In 1995, Barrick -- already North America's largest gold miner -- produced 3.1 million ounces of gold and had gold reserves totalling 43.3 million ounces.
Chrysler Corp. minivans have came under fire again from safety regulators, who said Tuesday they stepped up probes into two problems, including reports that a 90-pound rear hatch door can suddenly close without warning.
Nearly 2 million minivans are involved in the investigations, which were also sparked by reports that side sliding doors on 1996 models flew open at high speeds.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said it has received reports that 39 people have been injured when the rear hatch door on 1991-1993 model Caravan, Voyager and Town &amp; Country minivans dropped unexpectedly.
The problem occurs when bolts holding cylinders that prop the door open shear, according to the federal safety agency. The agency has received a total of 477 complaints. The probe, first launched in May and upgraded on Oct. 31, covers almost 1.3 million minivans.
NHTSA also upgraded a preliminary investigation into about 582,000 1996-model Caravan, Voyager and Town &amp; Country minivans. It has received 19 complaints that the right or left sliding door can come open while the vehicle is moving.
Owners have reported doors opening a few inches or flying wide open at speeds from 15 to 60 mph. No injuries have been reported. NHTSA said it is not aware of any incidents involving vehicles built during or after January 1996.
Chrysler was the first automaker to offer a sliding door on the left side of a minivan. The feature has made the No. 3 automaker's minivans the hottest seller in a popular segment.
Chrysler agreed in 1995, under pressure from regulators, to replace the latches on the rear hatch doors on more than 4 million minivans but stopped short of recalling the vehicles, from the 1984 through 1995 model years. Safety officials said the doors could pop open during low-speed crashes.
A Chrysler official could not be reached to comment.
But the company has told the safety agency the sliding door problem may stem from incorrect latch adjustments by dealers, which the company attributed to problems with the service manual.
Chrysler also said eight of the complaints about side doors opening involved vehicles that had had door repairs made. Chrysler said it has corrected the manual procedure and has made three design changes to door components.
But NHTSA said it has continued to receive complaints about the doors opening on vehicles with no repair history.
Separately, NHTSA said it upgraded an investigation into 621,000 1995 and 1996 Windstar minivans from Ford Motor Co. Regulators have received 327 complaints about brake problems, which have led to 76 accidents and two injuries.
In addition to the incidents reported to NHTSA, Ford said it has received 64,000 warranty claims that could relate to a brake problem causing long stopping distances.
Also, NHTSA said it opened an investigation into Land Rover's Discovery sport/utility vehicle. It has received two complaints that the right front door opened on 1996 models. Rover is a unit of German carmaker BMW.
Chrysler stock fell 25 cents to $34.75 on the New York Stock exchange in afternoon trading.
Regulators took the first of two steps Tuesday to slash the cost of overseas phone calls for consumers and businesses, making it easier for U.S. and foreign carriers to negotiate cheaper international rates.
The Federal Communications Commission hopes to save U.S. callers billions of dollars by backing up the new rules with a plan next month to cut the charges U.S. carriers pay foreign phone monopolies to complete calls from the United States.
Americans spend about 16 cents a minute for a domestic call. But they must shell out an average of 99 cents a minute to call overseas -- even though the cost of the calls are not much different, according to FCC officials.
"At 99 cents a minute, you're not going to get a global information highway," complained FCC Chairman Reed Hundt.
Tuesday's rules are targeted at countries whose own phone markets are open to competition from U.S. carriers, or are in the process of opening. FCC officials cited Canada, Britain, Chile and Sweden, as well as Europe and Mexico.
The FCC will waive rules that limit the ability of U.S. carriers to negotiate cheaper calling rates with an overseas phone company whose own market is considered open. The rules were crafted to prevent market abuse by foreign monopolies.
Don Gips, head of the FCC's International Bureau, said the new rules "will allow competitive pressures, rather than archaic rules," to govern the telecommunications market.
AT&amp;T Corp. Vice President Gerry Salemme said they "can lead to a significant reduction in the amount that American consumers pay for international telephone calls."
Under the new approach, a company such as AT&amp;T -- with FCC approval -- could ask competing foreign carriers to bid for the right to handle AT&amp;T phone traffic from the United States to a foreign market.
Alternatively, a U.S. carrier could offer end-to-end service from the United States to a foreign market without using the existing rate system for completing calls.
Officials say these "accounting rates" run five to 10 times actual costs, reflecting the power of state-run monopolies unexposed to home competition. U.S. carriers paid their overseas counterparts $5.5 billion more in 1995 than foreign companies paid U.S. carriers to complete calls.
While the accounting rates paid by both carriers are about equal, the imbalance reflects the fact that many more overseas calls are made from the United States than into this country.
International calls from the United States account for about a quarter of all international calls worldwide.
To reduce the rates, the FCC proposal scheduled for next month would set "benchmark" rates for what U.S. carriers could pay foreign carriers to complete calls. These rates, according to FCC officials, would better reflect actual costs.
The agency must still work out the details of how long a country would have to lower its rates and what steps could be taken if it refused to do so.
The FCC actions come as the United States is seeking to open overseas telecommunications markets through talks sponsored by the World Trade Organisation.
The United States has big rate imbalances with China, Jamaica, Mexico, Hong Kong, Columbia and Argentina, among others. Next month's proposal is likely to ruffle feathers.
"There will be concern from countries around the world with the benchmark item. There's no doubt about that," said the FCC's Gips.
U.S. high tech venture fund investment soared 50 percent in the seasonally-slow third quarter vs. overall U.S. venture investment growth of 25 percent from year-ago levels, according to a survey released by Price Waterhouse Monday.
"It is so hot it's scary," Kirk Walden, who compiles the quarterly Price Waterhouse LLP National Venture Capital Survey, said in an interview.
Venture investment in high technology industries, from computer software and semiconductors to medical instruments, rose to $1.32 billion in the third quarter, accounting for two-thirds of the $2 billion invested during the period, the survey found.
Software investments alone more than doubled from year-ago levels to $596 million, and in the first nine months of 1996 alone reached $1.74 billion, more than the $1.34 billion recorded for the sector in all of 1995.
For the first nine months of 1996, total venture-backed investments in the country reached $7 billion, nearly the $7.5 billion reported for the full year last year.
"Based on the current rate of venture capital investments, 1996 will certainly be another record year," Donald McGovern, chairman of the Price Waterhouse Technology Industry Group, said in a statement accompanying the results.
The third quarter total figure of $2 billion was a sequential drop from the blistering $2.8 billion pace the industry recorded in the second quarter.
"Third-quarter numbers are traditionally lower than second-quarter numbers because deal flow slows considerably in the summer months," said Carl Thoma, president of the National Venture Capital Association.
"But the venture capital industry still remains strong. Good deals are being made across the country in all industries."
Companies in the start-up and early stages attracted the greatest level of venture capital investment, the study found, with these comprising 46 percent of the 444 companies receiving funds and accounting for $600 million invested.
On average start-up companies received more than $3.1 million in funding and, communications firms accounted for nearly 56 percent of the total invested in this category.
Funding for Internet-related companie continued at the high level set in the second quarter of 1996, with 62 Internet-related companies receiving funding in the quarter exceeding the year-ago period by six times.
In a new trend, third quarter venture investment activity appeared to expand beyond the traditionally dominant Silicon Valley and New England areas, whose combined share of investment fell to 33 percent of value invested.
Typically the two regions account for some 40 percent to 45 percent of the total amount invested by venture funds, and experts said it confirms atriend towards more even distribution.
"Nobody in Silicon Valley is going to panic," because of the increase in funding outside the key areas, Walden said.
- sam.perry@reuters.com +1415 846 5400
Following weeks of talks, representatives from the television and computer industries reached an agreement in principle Monday on a broadcast standard for a new generation of high-definition digital TV.
The accord is aimed at allowing the Federal Communications Commission to finalise by year's end a government-prescribed standard for advanced digital TV, which offers cinema-quality pictures and CD-quality sound. TV manufacturers, as a result, hope to begin bringing digital-TV receivers to market in 1998.
While the accord between the computer, broadcast and consumer electronics industries calls on the FCC to issue a broadcast transmission standard, the agency would not mandate key aspects of digital TV technology.
Instead, the eventual shape of the TV screen and the technology for putting images on to the screen would be dictated by the market -- and not a government agency.
FCC officials welcomed the pact. "I am confident that, based on today's announcement, the FCC can act before the end of 1996," Commissioner Susan Ness said in a statement.
FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said, "Our goal has been to trust the market, not government, to define the digital television of the future. Today's agreement is wholly welcome."
Computer companies, led by Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates, had objected to the broadcast standard the FCC initially proposed in May, saying it would work poorly with computers and stifle the the convergence of TV and computer technologies.
The long-promised convergence would allow consumers to watch TV and surf the Internet via the same "smart box."
The latest round of talks, which were held in Washington, also resolved objections raised by Hollywood directors, actors and cinematographers who complained that the proposed screen size would mangle images in wide-screen films.
The FCC proposal stalled after the Clinton administration made an election-year reversal in August and warned the plan could be "overly prescriptive" and could "stymie" development of new products and services.
It initially backed the plan, but reversed itself after the objections from the computer industry and Hollywood.
"If the FCC acts this year, it could make high-definition TV a reality for consumers in 1998," said Gary Shapiro, president of the Consumer Electronics Manufacturers Association, a trade group representing TV makers.
The latest talks involved representatives for TV broadcasters, the big networks, TV manufacturers Philips Electronics N.A. Corp. and Thomson Consumer Electronics, plus Microsoft, Intel Corp., Compaq Computer Corp., and Apple Computer Inc.
The initial FCC proposal stemmed from a recommendation by an advisory panel that included representatives from the entertainment, broadcast, electronic and computer industries. The plan took more than eight years to develop.
The negotiations were initiated after a request last month from Commissioner Ness. She set a Nov. 25 deadline for the negotiators to reach agreement, although the date was not legally binding.
Be Inc., a private software company which Apple Computer Inc. is eyeing as a possible acquisition target, will announce Tuesday that it will license software to an Apple rival, Be executives said.
Be will license its BeOS operating system -- a type of programme that controls the basic functions of a computer -- to Power Computing Corp., a maker of computers compatible with Apple's Macintosh, executives of the companies said. Power Computing will have an exclusive license until April 1997.
Apple itself has been considering using Be's software. Earlier this year, the No. 3 PC maker shelved a mired effort to rewrite the Macintosh operating system and has been looking outside, primarily at Be, for programming talent.
Be and Power Computing executives said their agreement was not a threat to Apple's plans. Instead, the companies are offering fast machines that would appeal to saavy users, such as programmers, game developers and Web site managers, known as Webmasters.
"This agreement has no impact on any deal we may or may not conclude with Apple," said Mark Gonzalez, marketing director at Be, based in Menlo Park, Calif.
An Apple spokesman declined to comment on the agreement.
Be, founded in 1992 by the former head of Apple's research and development, writes software that takes full advantage of the multimedia and computing capabilities of the PowerPC microprocessor, the same computer chip that serves as the brains of the Macintosh.
The company's BeOS includes many software features and innovations that Apple's programmers have not been able to include in Macintosh software.
Apple, struggling to set the Macintosh apart from personal computers running software from Microsoft Corp., has been negotiating with Be since June about licensing its products or buying Be outright, executives close to the negotiations have said.
Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio and Chief Technology Officer Ellen Hancock have hinted in recent weeks that Apple planned to rewrite the core of the Macintosh software itself, but will turn to outside software companies for help in developing the features a computer user would see on the screen, including next-generation multimedia capabilities.
There is a discreet battle raging in France over whether future competitors of a privatised France Telecom will be able to make a living or whether the playing field will be tilted against them.
With billions of francs at stake, analysts are scutinising the abstruse technical details of interconnection charges and the cost of public service.
The government expects to dispose of about 20 percent of France Telecom next April and plans eventually to selloff 49 percent of the state-owned-company.
French telecommunications minister Francois Fillon said on Tuesday that French interconnection charges would have to be "comparable to other countries, in particular countries where there is already competition."
Interconnection charges are the payments telecom rivals have to pay to France Telecom for the use of its network.
France Telecom confirmed a leaked document showing it planned a charge of 0.16 francs per minute for local calls, 0.18 francs for regional calls and 0.26 francs for national calls.
France Telecom says these are among the lowest in Europe, with only Britain having cheaper local interconnection charges.
But its future rivals, however, say these prices are still too high and claim they are higher than what the state-owned company uses as internal charges.
On top of the interconnection charges comes the cost for the "public service" -- telecoms available to everyone, everywhere in France. By law, France Telecom will run this public service and its rivals will have to share the costs.
The newspaper Les Echos recently cited a study by the Analysis research bureau showing the the costs of such a service would be nine billion francs ($1.76 billion) per year.
France Telecom's rivals, using another research bureau, arrive at a figure of 4.5 billion francs at most.
"The total interconnection charges and public service payments for a local call would be some 0.21 to 0.22 francs per minute, or some 80 percent of the current price and nearly two to three times as high as in other countries where there is competition," a confidential document said.
The new French telecommunications regulator, ART, which will be in place in January 1997, is expected to decide on the charges in February.
And during the first three months of the year the future telecommunications operators will apply for their licences in order to be ready for competition in 1998.
Two groups have announced intentions to become national operators. One is CEGETEL, a joint venture of Generale des Eaux, British Telecom Plc, SBC Communications Inc, and Mannesmann of Germany. The other is headed by Bouygues in association with Italy's STET and Germany's VEBA.
AT&amp;T also wants to be active in the French market, with the help of a partner, but a spokesman for the U.S. group in France declined to comment whether it was in talks with Bouygues or preparing a fourth consortium.
AT&amp;T is in talks to combine it forces in Europe with Unisource -- a joint venture of the Dutch PTT, Telia of Sweden, Swiss Telecom PTT and Spain's Telefonica.
Unisource had previously teamed up with Generale des Eaux but the latter preferred BT.
Other companies will operate on a smaller scale, targetting either a region or a specific market. Eurotunnel's Trans Manche has received a licence for Paris to London lines. Fillon said he would sign in the next few days telecom operating licences for railroad company SNCF, Colt of Britain and MFS Ltd.
($1=5.118 French Franc)
The Brunei Investment Agency (BIA) on Tuesday bought a 13.4 percent stake in Macquarie Bank Ltd, removing the links between one of Australia's top four investment banks and its British founder.
Macquarie said in a stock exchange statement just after the start of morning trading that the Brunei government-owned agency paid Lloyds TSB Plc A$151.7 million (US$122.8 million) for the stake.
The purchase by the agency's Brunei Investment and Commercial Bank (BICB) from Lloyds' Hill Samuel &amp; Co unit makes it the largest individual shareholder in Macquarie.
Macquarie Bank managing director Allan Moss said the bank had developed a good relationship with BIA and its senior management over the months it had taken to arrange the deal.
"We are delighted that they have become associated with the bank as a major shareholder, and we are confident that BICB will prove to be a constructive and long term investor in Macquarie," Moss said.
The purchase ends Hill Samuel's 27-year direct involvement in the Australian investment banking sector.
Hill Samuel set up what is now known as Macquarie Bank in 1969 before selling down its stake to 30 percent in 1985 and then down to 15 percent in 1993.
Since then Macquarie, which now has 1,800 staff, has listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and is now one of Australia's top 100 companies.
It has offices throughout Australasia and in China, Singapore, Malaysia, London, Munich, New York, Hong Kong, Indonesia and South Africa. Its asset base stood at A$5.17 billion on March 31, the end of its financial year.
Macquarie also has more than A$20 billion in assets under management and has operations in corporate finance, sharebroking and in commodities, debt and foreign exchange trading.
It posted net profits of A$93.2 million in 1995/96.
Macquarie Equities ranks amoung the top four brokers in terms of turnover on the Australian Stock Exchange and had the biggest inflow of retail funds for management in the year to June 30, 1996.
Macquarie chairman David Clarke told a news conference he was confident that BICB was a stable shareholder.
"By and large you only read announcements of them buying things and investing in things you don't read about them selling out of things," Clarke said.
The sale of the Hill Samuel stake appears to remove from the market a convenient bridgehead for a takeover bid from another Australian bank.
Australia's conservative government is currently reconsidering financial regulations governing bank takeovers.
A report by the government-sponsored Wallis inquiry due in March next year is widely expected to trigger a series of bank takeovers.
($A = US0.81 cents)
Australia's information technology and telecommunication industry (IT&amp;T) on Tuesday welcomed a decision by Asia-Pacific leaders that would lead to a substantial reduction in tariffs.
"It is certainly welcome, as the telecommunications area has some very strong barriers in many markets," said Fleur Bayley, export manager of the Australian Informational Industry Association (AIIA).  
Bayley told Reuters that Australia has no trade barriers on IT&amp;T equipment, whereas local companies have to compete in markets that have high tariff barriers.
The meeting in the Philippines of 18 leaders of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies endorsed a United States plan to free the annual US$500 billion global trade in computers, memory chips and telecommunications equipment.
However, most IT&amp;T observers wanted more details about the tariff plan before they could assess its implications for the Australian sector.  
One computer industry analyst said the APEC plan is likely to benefit Australian IT&amp;T exports, but is unlikely to stimulate growth of technology imports into Australia.
"One would have thought with the relative maturity of our market that exports could increase faster than imports," the analyst said.
He said there could be a mild boost in demand from home users of computers, but it is unlikely to affect the demand in the corporate market.  
But another analyst said most of Australia IT&amp;T exports are from multinational corporations with operations in Australia and these companies are the ones that are most likely to benefit.
Australia exported more than A$2.5 billion in IT&amp;T goods in the 12 months to September this year but imported around A$9.6 billion worth of IT&amp;T goods over the same period.
U.S. computer giant International Business Machines Corp lBM exports about A$500 million of its computers from Australia to Asia, making it the country's single largest technology exporter.  
French telecommunictaions equipment maker Alcatel Alsthom is another multinational with large export volumes from Australia.
AIIA's Bayley said the association has a target of A$10 billion in IT&amp;T exports by the year 2000.
A decade ago, Australia's IT&amp;T exports were negligible.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Australian government plans to toughen the rules for the rollout of optic fibre cable could make Optus Communications' cable rollout plans uneconomic, said Optus chief executive officer Zygmunt Switkowski.
"We looked at the technology and the economics of underground cabling and we can't make the business case work for us," Switkowski told Reuters, before addressing a luncheon at the Committee for Economic Development of Australia.
"It could certainly add hundreds of millions of dollars to our cost base," Switkowski said.  
Last week, the Australian government said Optus and Telstra Corp would need the approval of a local council before it could install cables in its jurisdiction.
Optus, through its 46.5 percent owned Optus Vision, is rolling out fibre optic cables overhead on mainly existing telephone poles to carry pay television and telephone services at a cost of around A$3.0 billion.
Switkowski said there was no overall figure on how much extra it would cost Optus for the underground cables.
"It can be three to six times more costly to roll out an underground cable than it is to roll out an aerial cable."  
However, Switkowski said the government's decision had not affected the group's cable rollout programme.
Optus has targetted 2.3 million homes to be cabled by the end of 1996. "Everything is going according to plan," he said.
Switkowski played down newspaper reports that the telecommunications group would take the government to court over its change in policy.
"I think the suggestion that the rules under which have established this corporation should change earlier than expected is an unsettling one," he said.
The new cable rollout rules start on July 1, 1997.  
This is the same day that Australia's telecommunications industry will be liberalised, allowing overseas telephone carriers to provide local telephony services.
Australian Communications Minister Richard Alston announced the cable rollout changes last week, following lobbying by some lcoal councils and back-benchers in his own conservative Liberal party who wanted the roll-out restricted or stopped.
Alston said cable operators would not be able to install overhead cables where there had previously been no overhead cables and would have to go underground when above-ground power cables in that street went underground.  
Several councils have taken Optus Vision to court, but the rollout has continued because it is permitted under the current telecommunications regime.
Switkowski said he could make no comment on Optus Communications planned sharemarket float, which is scheduled to list by the end of this year, but has been delayed by legal action between Optus Vision and Seven Network Ltd.
Optus Communications is 25 percent owned by Mayne Nickless Ltd, BellSouth Corp and Cable and Wireless Plc both have a 24.5 percent stake in the Sydney-based group.
The balance is owned by Australian institutions.  
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Canada's gold giant Placer Dome Inc said it is poised to become a more powerful player in the Asia-Pacific region with its late Wednesday US$600 million takeover bid for Highlands Gold Ltd and the rest of its subsidiary, Placer Pacific Ltd.
A takeover of Papua New Guinea's Highlands would make Placer the main company involved in the rich Porgera gold deposit in that country,  Placer Dome spokesman Hugh Leggatt said in an interview from Vancouver.
"We think exploration at Porgera will be very prospective in the future," he said.
"It simplifies our structure and we believe it gives us more bang for the buck in terms of future exploration."
Highlands owns 25 percent of the Porgera joint venture. Placer Pacific also owns 25 percent of the gold deposit and is the mine's manager. The takeovers would give Placer Dome a 50 percent stake.
If the takeovers are successful, Placer Dome's yearly gold production would be boosted by 430,000 ounces to more than three million ounces a year by 1998, Leggatt said.
Reserves would go up by four million ounces to a total of 30 million ounces, he said.
"It clearly consolidates Placer's position in Porgera," said gold analyst David Christensen of Merrill Lynch in San Francisco.
"It's a very high quality operation with low production costs."
But Highlands' initial reaction to the takeover bid was to advise shareholders not to sell their shares.
"At the moment, the advice would be not to sell," Highlands company secretary Phillip West told Reuters in Sydney. "But the directors are considering the offer and are expected to make a statement later today," he said.
Placer has offered A$0.75 (corrects from A$0.25) a share for Highlands and has offered one Placer Dome share for every 15 Placer Pacific shares.
"We think it's a very fair bid. We have no intention of changing it," said Leggatt.
Placer already owns 75 percent of Placer Pacific and 33 percent of Highlands Gold.
It said its bid for Highlands represents a 36 percent premium to the price of Highlands shares on November 26, and its bid for Placer Pacific has a premium of almost 50 percent.
"This is about growth for Placer Dome shareholders and a golden opportunity for the shareholders of Highlands Gold and minority shareholders of Placer Pacific," John Willson, Placer's chief executive, said in a statement.
"We have great confidence in the Asia Pacific region. Placer Dome is consolidating its presence to compete more effectively."
A financial agreement between Barney's Inc and Hong Kong-based Dickson Concepts International Ltd will open the door to potential bidders for the famed New York luxury retailer.
Speculation about interested buyers has been rampant ever since Barney's filed for bankruptcy nearly a year ago.
Dickson and Saks Holdings Inc previously have expressed interest in privately held Barney's. Neiman Marcus Group Inc and Canada's Holt Renfrew also have been cited by industry experts as potential bidders.  
Barney's has repeatedly said that it is not for sale but only wants to talk with potential investors.
Under the pact announced Tuesday, Barney's will pay Dickson up to $1 million to complete its financial review of Barney's and Dickson will submit a recapitalization proposal.
In return, Barney's, which has been operating under bankruptcy protection since January, will make the financial information available to other prospective investors.
"We have the basis by which another investor can look at the information from that due diligence," said Barney's spokeswoman Sandra Sternberg.  
The pact with Dickson must be approved by the bankruptcy court, which may consider the issue as early as next week.
Officials at Saks, Neiman Marcus and privately held Holt Renfrew could not be reached for comment.
But Japanese retailer Isetan Co Ltd, which is tangled in court with Barney's over a soured business arrangement, said it was not interested in buying Barney's.
"I don't think we're considering it right now. We're sitting on the sidelines," said spokesman Yasuo Okamoto.
Saks and Isetan joined forces in July to explore a plan for Barney's, but they never reached terms on a proposal.  
Although Barney's has shuffled management to help turn around the business, the troubled retailer is still viewed as weak in the luxury retail sector even as other companies are performing well.
However, analysts think a new owner or partner can breathe new life into the company.
"It can be viable going forward. It needs to be trimmed down and it needs merchandising talent," said Howard Eilenberg of Johnson Redbook Service.
Founded in 1923 by Barney Pressman and operated under the leadership of his grandsons Robert and Gene, Barney's has long been plagued by a reputation for weak management.
Privately owned British investment bank Robert Fleming on Wednesday announced increased pre-tax profits for the first half of the year which it said underlined its ability to remain independent.
"We are committed to remaining independent. These results, our second best interim results ever, show we can remain independent," a Robert Fleming spokesman told Reuters.
Flemings has been widely talked about as a possible takeover target for a larger foreign investment bank, but has resolutely said it would retain its independence.
Flemings said its pretax profit for the first half of the year had increased by 16 percent to 92.2 million pounds ($154 million), from 79.4 million pounds a year earlier but warned it would have to cope with difficult markets in the second half.
Some analysts said the increase was not particularly impressive given market conditions but chief executive John Manser said it was "a very good start" and showed new businesses were "making a valuable contribution to profitability."
"While the outlook for the year seems promising, flat Asian markets and heightened competitive pressures in other markets are factors that we will continue to have to contend with during the next six months," Manser said in a statement.
The Flemings official said the results showed that while Flemings may have been perceived as an Asian-centric bank, it was now a much more international operation and had succeeded in bringing down its cost income ratio.
Flemings has not had an easy year so far. In July it lost investment banking head Bill Harrison who was poached by BZW, the investment banking arm of Britain's Barclays.
And in August Jardine Fleming, a joint venture with Jardine Matheson, revealed a five-month probe by British and Hong Kong regulators into irregular trades by a former senior fund manager at Jardine Fleming Investment Management.
This resulted in hefty fines and voluntary compensation of nearly $20 million to clients. Regulators also withdrew the authorisation of Jardine Fleming's London-based fund company. In September the company's chairman retired and the group created a new supervisory board.
Flemings acknowledged the problems at Jardine Fleming meant the joint venture had recorded a "marginally lower" interim result than its net interim profit of $63.9 million in 1995.
This was after taking into account provisions "arising from the regulatory issues relating to earlier years," it said. The Flemings spokesman told Reuters some clients had been lost, but new clients had also been taken on.
He described the events as a "painful experience." "But we believe we have clearly drawn a line in the sand," he added.
Any impact these problems may have had on Flemings' overall business was not, however, reflected in the interim dividend which rose to eight pence per share from seven pence.
Flemings said it had seen strong profit growth from its fund management businesses adding that its securities business had reported "a marked increase in profits aided by a strong performance by UK and continental European broking."
Its capital markets arm had helped companies raise 13.4 billion pounds of new capital while its corporate finance division had completed 43 deals during the period.
The appointment of Manser, 56, to replace Robin Fleming, 64, who will retire as chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings at the end of March 1997, means Manser would be more involved in business development and winning new business as well as strategy and relationships with major clients and shareholders.
William Garrett, 50, who was hired by Manser as a fund manager in 1970, was named as his replacement as chief executive and chairman of the group executive committee. Garrett will be responsible for the day-to-day running of the group.
Privately-owned British investment bank Robert Fleming on Wednesday announced increased pre-tax profits for the first half of the year but warned it would have to contend with some difficult markets in the second half.
Flemings said its pretax profit for the first half of the year had increased by 16 percent to 92.2 million pounds ($154 million), from 79.4 million pounds a year earlier.
Some analysts said the increase was not particularly impressive given market conditions but chief executive John Manser said it was "a very good start" and showed new businesses were "making a valuable contribution to profitability".
"While the outlook for the year seems promising, flat Asian markets and heightened competitive pressures in other markets are factors that we will continue to have to contend with during the next six months," Manser said in a statement.
But one analyst, who declined to be named, said the group would have given a more precise break-down of the performance of its various arms if the results had been outstanding.
Flemings has not had an easy year so far. In July it lost investment banking head Bill Harrison who was poached by BZW, the investment banking arm of Britain's Barclays.
And in August Jardine Fleming, a joint venture with Jardine Matheson, revealed a five-month probe by British and Hong Kong regulators into irregular trades by a former senior fund manager at Jardine Fleming Investment Management.
This resulted in hefty fines and voluntary compensation of nearly $20 million to clients. Regulators also withdrew the authorisation of Jardine Fleming's London-based fund company. In September the company's chairman retired and the group created a new supervisory board.
In its interim results on Wednesday Robert Fleming acknowledged that the problems at Jardine Fleming meant the joint venture had recorded a "marginally lower" interim result than its net interim profit of $63.9 million in 1995.
This was after taking into account provisions "arising from the regulatory issues relating to earlier years", it said. But despite widespread speculation that Jardine Fleming would lose clients as a result of the scandal, it recorded a net trading profit of $82.0 million, an increase of 28 percent.
Robert Fleming said "the shortcomings which gave rise to these problems have been fully addressed", management had been strengthened and the Jardine Fleming businesses were fully compliant with "local and UK regulation and controls".
They were "being further upgraded to bring them completely in line with best international practice," it added.
Any impact these problems may have had on Flemings' overall business was not, however, reflected in the interim dividend paid by Robert Fleming, which announced an increased dividend of 8.0 pence per share, from 7.0 pence.
Flemings said it had seen strong profit growth from its fund management businesses and its securities business had reported "a marked increase in profits aided by a strong performance by UK and continental European broking".
Its capital markets arm had helped companies raise 13.4 billion pounds of new capital while its corporate finance division had completed 43 deals during the period.
It also announced that Manser will replace Robin Fleming who will retire as chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings at the end of March 1997. William Garrett was named as replacement chief executive and chairman of the group executive committee.
Other moves include Peter Jamieson becoming chairman of Robert Fleming &amp; Co and Lawrence Banks who will join him as deputy chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings.
U.S./Canadian mobile satellite communications group Odyssey Telecommunications is near securing $600-$800 million of the $3.2 billion it needs to launch 12 satellites into orbit from 2001, an industry source said.
The group -- the joint project of U.S. aerospace giant TRW Inc and Canada's telecoms firm Teleglobe Inc -- is one of four main rivals that want to allow subscribers to receive voice, faxes and paging services anywhere in the world using only a pocket telephone.  
"We're pleased with the progress we have made in bringing together a global team of national service operators."
OTI declined to name the companies attending the meeting, citing concerns for confidentiality. But it said there were representatives from companies in Asia, Europe and North and South America.
So far, the company has received letters of intent, which are non-binding until the initial round of financing is closed.  
Although the company has dismissed speculation that it has had difficulties finding backers for its system, its plans to launch the satellites have been delayed by around three years.
However, after representatives from 12 strategic partners in the company met in London to review the planned project, the source told Reuters: "The first round of financing is expected to be completed in three to four months."
"This meeting marks the first time we have all met around the same table," said Odyssey Telecommunications International (OTI) managing director Marc Leroux in a statement.  
"Participants in the meeting were enthusiastic and confident about Odyssey's business plan and system design," Bruce Gerding, a managing director of OTI said in a statement.
The second and third phase of funding is expected to include further equity and an element of debt finance, the source said.
The worldwide market for personal satellite telephones (satphones), that seeks to replace the cumbersome suitcase-sized terminals costing up to $10 per minute to use, has been estimated by some analysts to be worth $12 billion in global annual revenues by 2004.  
The main contenders for their share of the hand-held satphone market are Iridium, backed mainly by U.S. technology gaint Motorola Inc, U.S. aerospace firm Loral Corp's and Qualcomm's Globalstar and ICO Global, a spin-off of international telecom consortium Inmarsat.
Odyssey wants to launch its satellites into "medium-Earth" orbit -- about 10,000 kms from the earth's surface. Seven Earth stations, linked by a global fibre-optic network, are also part of the patented Odyssey system.  
The company has started legal proceedings against ICO Global for alleged infringement of its medium earth orbit technology patents.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7987
Britain's top fraud watchdog, the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) on Wednesday launched an investigation into former bosses of Wickes Plc, the do-it-yourself retailer rocked by accounting irregularities worth tens of millions of pounds.
"The SFO has launched an investigation into the former senior management of Wickes," an SFO spokesman told Reuters.
It said the probe was being carried out jointly with the British police fraud squad in London.
Investigators are now expected to interview the ex-chairman and chief executive Henry Sweetbaum who resigned from the group in the summer, former finance director Trefor Llewellyn who is now at Caradon Plc, and the former buying and commercial directors.
"No-one has been arrested or charged and we have not executed any search warrants," the SFO spokesman said, adding that it had taken on the case on November 20 but had not announced its involvement "for operational reasons."
Wickes uncovered the accounting scam in June. The discrepancies date back five years and led to a 51 million stg overstatement of profits which will be wiped off shareholder funds.
The news led to a boardroom shake-up last summer and a three-and-a-half month internal inquiry by accountants Price Waterhouse and law firm Linklaters &amp; Paine.
"These investigations have led to the SFO having the reasonable grounds it requires to be able to launch a criminal investigation," said the SFO spokesman.
Meanwhile, Wickes is trying to salvage its business which was shaken by the summer's events.
Its shares remain frozen at 69 pence per share and it is planning to restate profits next month and launch details of a refinancing rights issue of between 30 and 40 million pounds.
A Wickes spokesman told Reuters those plans were "well advanced." It is also close to deciding on a new chief executive, with two to three candidates shortlisted including an internal candidate.
The former chief Sweetbaum said last month that he accepted "ultimate responsibility" for what happened under his regime.
He has agreed to repay his 1.2 million pounds in bonuses including tax. Former finance chief Llewellyn has also agreed to repay his bonus of 485,000 pounds for 1995.
Moves to refinance the group will help cut gearing to around 70 percent said analysts, who believe it will be far from easy to raise the rights issue cash needed to put the company back on the road to recovery.
Shares are not expected to resume trading until early 1997.
Rumours Swiss drugs group Roche Holding has designs on Anglo-American group SmithKline Beecham Plc need to be treated with intense caution, analysts said on Wednesday.
Shares in SmithKline Beecham Plc rose sharply in late trading, closing up 30 1/2 pence at 788, while in Zurich shares in Roche dropped 140 Swiss francs to 9,830 francs.
Analysts said rumours that Roche was trying to put together a funding package of up to 50 billion Swiss Francs had fueled the late buying of SmithKline.  
But one analyst with a European bank who asked not to be named said rumours about Roche, which has most commonly been cited as a suitor for another British company, Zeneca Group Plc, have become a regular feature of the market.
Both Roche and SmithKline declined to comment on the speculation.
SmithKline had a market capitalization of around 21.3 billion stg at the close of trading on Wednesday and analysts said a hostile bid would probably lead to a 30 to 40 percent premium on top of this.  
Roche, which is worth 95.1 billion Swiss francs, already has a cash pile of around six billion Swiss francs to fund any ambitions it might have.
Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull's director of equity research Paul Diggle said: "Don't hold your breath, but it isn't that stupid." But Diggle said an agreed merger between the two companies was more feasible than a takeover. He noted that Roche and SmithKline, which are both in the world's top 10 in terms of sales, have made no secret of their desire to be bigger in a rapidly consolidating drugs market and a merger could "satisfy the ambition of both companies."  
A merger would give Roche and SmithKline Beecham a combined world market share of over five percent, putting them on a par with current world leader Glaxo Wellcome Plc.
SmithKline would also offer Roche a much firmer footing in the key U.S. market, where it lacks critical mass. Roche's vitamin business, which is the biggest in the world, would provide a useful fit with SmithKline' consumer healthcare and over-the-counter drugs operations.
In terms of drugs, both companies have strong portfolios of central nervous sytem drugs and antibiotics.
However, a UK brokerage analysts, who also declined to be identified, said that, beyond size, a merger with SmithKline would offer little in the way of attractions for Roche.
"If I was the finance director of Roche I would look at SmithKline and see there was a lot of stuff I didn't want," he said. SmithKline's involvement in the U.S. pharmacy benefit management business would offer few attractions to Roche, whose drugs are targeted largely at hospitals, he added.
The Toronto Stock Exchange posted another record close on Wednesday on the back of stronger financial service and conglomerate stocks.
The TSE's key 300 Composite Index rose 10.85 points to 5986.41 in heavy trading. Trading volume was 108.2 million shares worth C$1.9 billion (US$1.4 billion).
Of Toronto's 14 sub-indices, eight rose led by conglomerates, banks, pipelines and media.
"This is an interest-sensitive area and where buyers tend to conglomerate," said ScotiaMcLeod senior vice-president Fred Ketchen.
Falling sectors included oils, transports and real estate.
Barrick Gold Corp. led Toronto's active issues after news on Tuesday of a deal which will give it a majority share in a rich Indonesian gold deposit.
One dealer said he had only traded Barrick -- the world's third largest gold producer -- and Bre-X Minerals Ltd. which discovered the Busang gold deposit.
"I think both are buys at this point in time," he said.
Bank stocks were snapped up by investors as Canada's Big Six banks began reporting year-end earnings this week.
Bank of Nova Scotia posted its first C$1 billion ($750 million) annual profit on Wednesday.
On the broader market, declining stocks edged out advances 556 to 437, despite gains in the key index. Another 294 shares were unchanged.
U.S. markets will be closed on Thursday due to the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.
--- HOT STOCKS ---
* Barrick Gold rose 0.75 to 39.65 on more than 7.1 million shares, while Bre-X Minerals gained 0.65 to 21 on 6.5 million shares.
* Bank of Nova Scotia climbed 0.20 to 46.05 on 745,000 shares. Toronto-Dominion Bank jumped 0.80 to 36.85 in heavy turnover of 1.3 million shares.
T-D Bank is scheduled to report its fourth quarter results on Thursday.
* Newbridge Networks Corp. jumped 1 to 38.60 on 1.5 million shares. The stock regained some lost ground since analysts' downgraded Newbridge last week.
Canada's Barrick Gold Corp seems poised to supplant two South African mining giants to become the world's biggest gold producer through an unprecedented deal which will give it a majority share in Indonesia's rich Busang gold discovery.
Barrick, whose high-profile board of directors includes a former U.S. President George Bush, on Wednesday confirmed weeks of rumors it was negotiating with Bre-X Minerals Ltd for a stake in the Busang deposit, which contains at least 47 million ounces of gold, possibly more.
The unusual negotiations were requested by the Indonesian government, which has urged Bre-X to hand over 75 percent of its Busang stake to Barrick and form a joint venture.
"If this thing comes off, it makes Barrick the leading gold producer in the world," said Fred Ketchen, vice-president of Toronto brokerage ScotiaMcLeod.
"It indicates the advantages to major companies in having such high profile people on their board as George Bush and (former Canadian prime minister) Brian Mulroney."
Exploration at the Busang property is still in its early days, but already the potential promises to catapault Barrick's production above that of the world's two leading gold companies, Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd and Gold Fields of South Africa Ltd.
Barrick started with basically no gold production in 1983 and grew through acquisition and exploration to produce about 3.1 million ounces a year.
Barrick's flamboyant chairman Peter Munk, a fabulously wealthy risk taker well connected in both business and politics, has made no secret of his ambition to make his company number one.
While neither Barrick nor Bre-X would comment on how Barrick managed to persuade the Indonesian government to virtually mandate a deal with Bre-X, pieces of an intriguing jigsaw are beginning to fit together.
Bre-X bought the Busang properties in 1993 and made the huge gold find in 1995. The discovery propelled the company's stock from pennies to over C$200 before a stock split.
After Bre-X announced it would search for a heavyweight mining partner in Busang, the Cinderella story turned sour.
One of Bre-X's Indonesian partners claimed rights to up to 40 percent of the deposit and threatened to sue. The Indonesian government then delayed granting Bre-X its vital mining permits because of the ensuing disputes. "It's quite clear that Bre-X did not follow protocol in its ownership issues," said an analyst who asked not to be named.
So Bre-X set up a strategic alliance with the eldest son of Indonesia's President Suharto, hoping the alliance would help sort out its problems. At the same time, Barrick was worked behind the scenes to gain the upper hand, sources said.
"Peter Munk is a pretty smart guy," said Ketchen. "No grass grows under his feet."
Barrick developed a relationship with Suharto's eldest daughter, hiring her construction company for future mining work. It developed ties with the Indonesian government, probably using Bush and Mulroney's influence, sources said.
"They (Barrick) really did the end run. There was lots of arm twisting," said an executive at a rival mining company.
Spokesmen for both Bush and Mulroney declined comment.
With the Indonesian government almost forcing Bre-X into Barrick's arms, Bre-X has lost much of its bargaining power. "The government is God here. It holds most of the cards," said Michael Fowler with brokerage Levesque Beaubien Geoffiron.
Jakarta has given the companies until December 4 to come up with an arrangement. If they do not, the Indonesian government could take matters into its own hands.
But on Wednesday Bre-X investors seemed confident that Bre-X would win a reasonable deal. They pushed the stock up C$0.65 to 21.00 in heavy trading. Barrick rose 0.75 to 39.65.
"At the end of the day, I believe Barrick will be fair," said Fowler. Barrick has an international reputation to uphold and could face lawsuits from Bre-X shareholders if it tries to undermine Bre-X. Barrick may buy part of Busang and act as operator, rather than bidding for Bre-X, analysts said.
"None of the parties involved here will walk away completely unscathed," said analyst David Christensen with Merrill Lynch in San Francisco.
With all the intrigue and rumor clouding the Busang developments, investors will always wonder if they've heard the whole story, he said.
Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada's fourth largest bank, joined a once exclusive club on Wednesday, reporting its first C$1 billion annual profit.
The Toronto-based bank said net income jumped 22 percent to C$1.069 billion in the year ended October 31. It also rewarded shareholders with a C$0.03 increase in its quarterly dividend to C$0.37 a share, its second dividend hike of 1996.
"Scotiabank's financial results exceeded our targets once again in 1996," chairman and chief executive Peter Godsoe said in a statement.  
Scotiabank was the fourth of Canada's Big Six banks to break the C$1 billion threshold.
Bank of Montreal posted a record C$1.17 billion profit on Tuesday when it kicked off the Canadian banking group's year-end reporting season.
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce joined the club last year, following Royal Bank of Canada in 1994.
Godsoe said all of Scotiabank's main business lines contributed to its record performance, including personal, corporate and investment banking. Improved credit quality also contributed to the bank's bottom line.  
Return on equity, a key measure of profitability, rose to 15.8 percent in 1996 from 14.2 percent last year.
The bank's fourth-quarter earnings were slightly better than the average of analysts' estimates.
Earnings rose to C$1.08 a share in the three months ended October 31 from C$0.88 in the same period in 1995.
The consensus forecast from analysts was C$1.05 or C$1.06 a share. "They are strong and probably surprising," one industry analyst said.
Other analysts said the results were in line with their expectations.  
Susan Cohen, an analyst with Deacon Capital Corp, had forecast C$1.08 per share in the fourth quarter.
"They were right in line," Cohen said, adding that the bank's loan losses and the dividend increase were expected.
Scotiabank stock rose 0.30 to 46.15 in mid-afternoon turnover of 402,000 shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Among other financial highlights:
* Net interest income rose 15 percent to C$3.58 billion in 1996, due mostly to strong growth in earning assets across all business lines. The bank also posted securities gains of C$129 million in 1996, versus gains of C$38 million in 1995.  
The cost of funding impaired loans also fell due to lower interest rates and a drop in the level of impaired loans.
* Other income jumped 14 percent to C$1.78 billion in 1996. The bank attributed the increase to stronger revenues from electronic and card services and higher loan fees.
With financial markets enjoying a prolonged rally in 1996, the bank's full service and discount brokerage operations posted a 50 percent jump in revenues.
* Non-interest expenses grew by 13 percent to C$3.22 billion, due mostly to performance related compensation and higher business volumes.  
* Net impaired loans fell 49 percent to C$743 million in 1996. Net impaired loans as a percentage of total loans and acceptances improved to 0.7 percent, their lowest since 1989.
* Provision for credit losses dropped to C$380 million in 1996, down from C$560 million last year. The bank's general provision remained at C$325 million.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100
Azerbaijan is proving more successful in attracting foreign oil investment dollars than big brother Russia, but the Caspian state must still deal with Moscow if it wants to become a major world energy player.
In the latest deal underscoring the shift, Azeri oil officials said Amoco Corp, Unocal Corp, Japan's Itochu Corp and Saudi Arabia's Delta Nimir would initial a $1.5 billion agreement with Azeri officials on December 14 to tap unexplored reserves in the Azeri sector of the Caspian.
The deal is the fourth multi-billion-dollar project Baku has won since the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991 and takes place as a chill settles over Western oil companies struggling to push Russian-based deals through a legal maze.
"I think there's really a question of how much Russia really wants the investment," said one Western oil executive in Moscow. "With the Azeris, it's never really a question."
Douglas Hill, resident manager of Amoco unit Amoco Caspian Sea Petroleum Ltd in Baku, said the Azeri government had done much to make deals attractive to foreign investors.
"There's a strong realisation here that some assistance is needed and that oil is going to be the primary driver of the economy," he said.
Actual foreign oil investment in Russia has all but dried up as Moscow struggles to pass tax and resource laws backing investors' projects and is less than $1 billion out of a planned $60 billion. No deals are close to the production stage.
In contrast, Azerbaijan's flagship $8 billion Azerbaijan International Operating Company (AIOC) project grouping 13 international oil companies is scheduled to start pumping in the third quarter of next year.
Moscow is not indifferent to the change in focus to high-yielding Caspian reserves and has pushed to get Russian oil giant LUKoil involved in the projects -- partly, some analysts say, in exchange for not arguing over who owns Caspian oil.
Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Russia all border the sea. Russia says its resources should be shared equally but Azerbaijan follows a sectoral approach and is proceeding with deals in its area.
"Of course, Azerbaijan is now our competitor," said Nikolai Bolmasov, deputy head of the Russian Fuel and Energy Ministry's section for cooperation with the Commonwealth of Independent States.
He said Moscow was "analysing" Azerbaijan's role in landing foreign oil deals but declined to say if the ministry would produce policy directives on the issue.
Caspian oil projects are next door to the Middle East Gulf region, which contains nearly 70 percent of world oil reserves and produces one quarter of global oil supplies. They will make Azerbaijan and neighbouring Kazakhstan big competitors to Russia.
"Over the next three or four years, production will shift from Siberia to higher yielding Caspian and Sakhalin projects," Stephen O'Sullivan, associate director of oil and gas at MC Securities in London, said in a recent interview.
But the deals on Far Eastern Sakhalin island do not have Russian majors as shareholders, and analysts say LUKoil's participation in leading Azeri deals has kept Moscow quiet on the Caspian status issue.
LUKoil could yet join the latest Caspian group, which will tap the unexplored Dan-Ulduzu and Azhrafe reserves.
One hand Moscow has not forced is the question of how the region's oil will be transported to Western markets.
Russia is keen to earn crude oil transit tariffs and control supplies, but knows some new pipelines will probably go through Turkey due to worries over increased tanker traffic through the Bosphorus.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
Shanghai city is on the verge of renting out the former Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Bank building on the riverside Bund to an unnamed bank but definitely not the Hongkong Bank, a senior official said on Wednesday.
The official, Zhou Jinbao, said final negotiations were in progress with two or three contenders for the huge building, built in 1925 as a symbol of the financial might of the British Empire.
"I will invite you to the signing ceremony. It will be held very soon," Zhou, general manager of the Bund Buildings Transformation Corp, said in an interview. "The basic issues have now been basically agreed upon."
He declined to say which companies were in the final running but said he expected the winner to be a bank.
"It is not the Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Bank," he added.
The Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp Ltd, a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, had more than two years of discussions with Shanghai city officials on terms for resuming control of their former headquarters but finally announced that they had decided not to proceed with the proposal.
Zhou said the Hongkong Bank had wanted to demolish several buildings behind the main structure and erect a modern office tower.
But he said this proposal would have had an impact on wider development plans for the area which have not yet been fixed and are unlikely to be finalised for at least another year or two.
The main building has 24,000 square metres of space and Zhou said he was looking at around three U.S. dollars per square metre per day in rental. The lease can be for any period up to 30 or 40 years.
"The rental fee we are looking for is based on the fact the Bund should be the highest priced piece of land (in Shanghai). If other buildings are currently renting for two dollars a day (per square metre), then this building should be three dollars," he said.
At that price, the monthly rental fee for the building would be over $2 million per month. Renovation costs, he estimated, would cost around $15 million.
The building is steeped in history. After serving in effect as the East Asian financial headquarters of western imperialism for a quarter of century, it became after 1949 the Communist Party's Shanghai headquarters and city hall.
The city officials finally moved into a new building last year, leaving the old bank empty and echoing, waiting for a new tenant.
The main banking hall, with its magnificent marble pillars and curved glass roof, has had its banking counters removed and the murals which adorned the main domed entrance hall have been painted over.
The room just off the hall which served as the bank's general manager's office and later the office of a succession of Shanghai city Communist Party chiefs, is small and airless.
"This building has not only huge architectural value, but also great cultural and historical significance," said Zhou. "That is why we will only rent it. We will not sell it. It is a treasure."
Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel SA/Plc sought to reassure the public Wednesday about the safety of the rail link between France and Britain following last week's fire that halted most services.
But its public relations effort was marred by a minor fire that broke out near the site of last week's blaze.
"There is no doubt the tunnel is at least as safe as other Channel transport systems," French Co-Chairman Patrick Ponsolle of the Anglo-French company told a news conference.
A fire in a truck on a freight train seriously damaged a section of the tunnel on Monday last week, injuring 34 people and raising doubts over the safety of the cross-Channel service.
The Eurostar high-speed passenger train and Le Shuttle car and passenger services have been halted, although a limited freight service has resumed.
Wednesday's fire was apparently sparked by welding work during repairs, but it was quickly extinguished, British police said.
"Safety is our first consideration, ahead of commercial considerations," British Co-Chairman Robert Malpas said. "The emergency evacuation procedure which forms the backbone of the safety system worked after two other measures failed."
The cause of the fire remains a mystery, although sabotage is seen as one possibility by the French magistrate investigating the fire.
"The judge has not ruled out the theory of foul play," said a Eurotunnel spokeswoman.
But legal sources said the idea that the fire was started deliberately was regarded as a remote possibility and not the most likely cause.
Ponsolle said Eurotunnel's maximum potential loss from the fire was five to seven million pounds ($8.40 million to $11.75 million).
"The ultimate maximum loss for the company after receiving insurance indemnities could be of the order of five or six or seven million pounds," he said.
Eurotunnel's monthly revenue before the fire was between 350 million and 400 million francs ($67.75 million and $77.43 million). Loss of revenues would depend on the re-establishment of a partial service, he said.
If passenger and freight services resumed to 50-60 percent of previous capacity, this would mean a maximum monthly loss of 200 million francs ($38.7 million), Ponsolle said.
Eurotunnel's maximum insurance coverage is 1.5 billion francs ($290.4 million) for equipment and 4.5 billion ($871.1 million) for earnings losses, Ponsolle said.
Eurotunnel hopes to resume partial passenger service early next week, if the safety commission that oversees the tunnel approves a new set of temporary evacuation measures, Ponsolle said.
Because a 1.243 mile section of one of the tunnel bores cannot be used for evacuation, the company is laying on special fire-fighting and ambulance crews on 24-hour alert, with two cars for extricating passengers.
The train that was destroyed in the fire was worth nearly 100 million francs ($19.4 million) and repairs to the tunnel and related equipment would cost between 200 million and 500 million ($38.7 million to $96.8 million). But Eurotunnel is awaiting the results of insurance investigations into the costs of the fire.
Ponsolle said the blaze should not affect a complex plan to restructure the company's 70 billion francs ($13.6 billion) of junior bank debt, which took a year to negotiate. "There is no reason for us to put into question the restructuring," he told reporters.
"We do not see at this stage there needs to be any delay in the rescheduling of the debt," Malpas told Reuters Financial Television when asked whether the banks had asked for new clauses to be added to its restructuring because of the fire.
"The creditor banks have been very understanding; they wish us well ... they see it as an incident which we will get over and which will be contained in insurance arrangements and the financial arrangements we have set up," Malpas said.
Ponsolle said the company did not face any problems with cash flow. Eurotunnel had 100 million pounds ($167.7 million) in cash holdings and "it is not under financial pressure to reopen services."
Privately-owned British investment bank Robert Fleming on Wednesday announced increased pre-tax profits for the first half of the year which it said underlined its ability to remain independent.
"We are committed to remaining independent. These results, our second best interim results ever, show we can remain independent," a Robert Fleming spokesman told Reuters.
Flemings has been widely talked about as a possible takeover target for a larger foreign investment bank, but has resolutely said it would retain its independence.
Flemings said its pretax profit for the first half of the year had increased by 16 percent to 92.2 million pounds ($154 million), from 79.4 million pounds a year earlier but warned it would have to cope with difficult markets in the second half.
Some analysts said the increase was not particularly impressive given market conditions but chief executive John Manser said it was "a very good start" and showed new businesses were "making a valuable contribution to profitability."
"While the outlook for the year seems promising, flat Asian markets and heightened competitive pressures in other markets are factors that we will continue to have to contend with during the next six months," Manser said in a statement.
The Flemings official said the results showed that while Flemings may have been perceived as an Asian-centric bank, it was now a much more international operation and had succeeded in bringing down its cost income ratio.
Flemings has not had an easy year so far. In July it lost investment banking head Bill Harrison who was poached by BZW, the investment banking arm of Britain's Barclays.
And in August Jardine Fleming, a joint venture with Jardine Matheson, revealed a five-month probe by British and Hong Kong regulators into irregular trades by a former senior fund manager at Jardine Fleming Investment Management.
This resulted in hefty fines and voluntary compensation of nearly $20 million to clients. Regulators also withdrew the authorisation of Jardine Fleming's London-based fund company. In September the company's chairman retired and the group created a new supervisory board.
Flemings acknowledged the problems at Jardine Fleming meant the joint venture had recorded a "marginally lower" interim result than its net interim profit of $63.9 million in 1995.
This was after taking into account provisions "arising from the regulatory issues relating to earlier years," it said. The Flemings spokesman told Reuters some clients had been lost, but new clients had also been taken on.
He described the events as a "painful experience." "But we believe we have clearly drawn a line in the sand," he added.
Any impact these problems may have had on Flemings' overall business was not, however, reflected in the interim dividend which rose to eight pence per share from seven pence.
Flemings said it had seen strong profit growth from its fund management businesses adding that its securities business had reported "a marked increase in profits aided by a strong performance by UK and continental European broking."
Its capital markets arm had helped companies raise 13.4 billion pounds of new capital while its corporate finance division had completed 43 deals during the period.
The appointment of Manser, 56, to replace Robin Fleming, 64, who will retire as chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings at the end of March 1997, means Manser would be more involved in business development and winning new business as well as strategy and relationships with major clients and shareholders.
William Garrett, 50, who was hired by Manser as a fund manager in 1970, was named as his replacement as chief executive and chairman of the group executive committee. Garrett will be responsible for the day-to-day running of the group.
A financial agreement between Barney's Inc. and Hong Kong-based Dickson Concepts International Ltd. will open the door to potential bidders for the famed New York luxury retailer.
Speculation about interested buyers has been rampant ever since Barney's filed for bankruptcy nearly a year ago.
Under a pact announced Tuesday, Barney's will pay Dickson up to $1 million to complete its financial review of Barney's and Dickson will submit a recapitalization proposal for the retailer.
In return, Barney's, which has been operating under bankruptcy protection since January, will make the financial information available to other prospective investors.
"We have the basis by which another investor can look at the information from that due diligence," said Barney's spokeswoman Sandra Sternberg.
Dickson and Saks Holdings Inc. previously have expressed interest in privately held Barney's. Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Canada's Holt Renfrew also have been cited by industry experts as potential bidders.
Barney's has repeatedly said that it is not for sale but wants to talk with potential investors.
The pact with Dickson must be approved by the bankruptcy court, which may consider the issue as early as next week.
Officials at Saks, Neiman Marcus and privately held Holt Renfrew could not be reached for comment.
But Japanese retailer Isetan Co. Ltd., which is tangled in court with Barney's over a soured business arrangement, said it was not interested in buying Barney's.
"I don't think we're considering it right now. We're sitting on the sidelines," said spokesman Yasuo Okamoto.
Saks and Isetan joined forces in July to explore a plan for Barney's, but they never reached terms on a proposal.
Although Barney's has shuffled management to help turn around the troubled retailer, it is still viewed as weak in the luxury retail sector even as other companies are performing well.
Analysts, however, think a new owner or partner can breathe new life into the company.
"It can be viable going forward. It needs to be trimmed down and it needs merchandising talent," said Howard Eilenberg of Johnson Redbook Service.
Founded in 1923 by Barney Pressman and operated under the leadership of his grandsons Robert and Gene, Barney's has long been plagued by a reputation for weak management.
Britain's fraud watchdog, the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) on Wednesday launched an investigation into former bosses of Wickes Plc, the do-it-yourself retailer rocked by accounting irregularities worth tens of millions of pounds.
"The SFO has launched an investigation into the former senior management of Wickes," an SFO spokesman told Reuters.
It said the probe was being carried out jointly with the British police fraud squad in London.
Investigators are now expected to interview the ex-chairman and chief executive Henry Sweetbaum who resigned from the group in the summer, former finance director Trefor Llewellyn who is now at Caradon Plc, and the former buying and commercial directors.
"No-one has been arrested or charged and we have not executed any search warrants," the SFO spokesman said, adding that it had taken on the case on November 20 but had not announced its involvement "for operational reasons".
Wickes uncovered the accounting scam in June. The discrepencies date back five years and led to a 51 million pound ($85.62 million) overstatement of profits which will be wiped off shareholder funds.
The news led to a boardroom shake-up last summer and a three and a half month internal inquiry by accountants Price Waterhouse and law firm Linklaters &amp; Paine.
"These investigations have led to the SFO having the reasonable grounds it requires to be able to launch a criminal investigation," said the SFO spokesman.
Meanwhile, Wickes is trying to salvage its business which was shaken by the summer's events.
Its shares remain frozen at 69 pence per share and it is planning to restate profits next month and launch details of a refinancing rights issue of between 30 and 40 million pounds.
A Wickes spokesman told Reuters those plans were "well advanced." It is also close to deciding on a new chief executive, with two to three candidates shortlisted including an internal candidate.
The former chief Sweetbaum said last month that he accepted "ultimate responsibility" for what happened under his regime.
He has agreed to repay his 1.2 million pounds in bonuses including tax. former finance chief Llewellyn has also agreed to repay his bonus of 485,000 pounds for 1995.
Moves to refinance the group will help cut gearing to around 70 percent said analysts, who believe it will be far from easy to raise the rights issue cash needed to put the company back on the road to recovery.
Shares are not expected to resume trading until early 1997.
($1=.5956 Pound)
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus on Wednesday said the government had approved a plan to privatise at least part of the state's 31.5 percent stake in commercial bank IPB a.s..
Speaking after the government's regular weekly session, Klaus said he had charged Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik with the task of setting conditions for a tender to sell the stake.
He added that no decision on a central bank proposal to merge banks CSOB a.s. and Ceska Sporitelna a.s. had been taken, though the government remained committed to privatising its holdings in the country's four biggest banks.
"He (Kocarnik) is due to submit to the cabinet, in cooperation with a chosen consultancy firm, the criteria for the selection of a strategic foreign partner," Klaus said.
Representatives from the state privatisation agency, the National Property Fund (NPF), and the central bank would also be involved in the process of developing the tender.
"The intention is for Mr Kocarnik to come up with the criteria as soon as possible," Klaus said.
Klaus did not say how much of the government's stake would be included in the sale to a strategic foreign partner.
Japan's Nomura and Dutch banks ING and ABN AMRO have been widely reported as expressing an interest in the IPB stake.
The central bank has submitted a plan to the cabinet proposing a merger of CSOB, where the Czech government holds 66 percent, and Ceska Sporitelna where it has 45 percent, but Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus has reacted coolly to the idea.
"We did not make any fundamental judgements on mergers today," Klaus said. He did not elaborate.
A merger of CSOB and Sporitelna would create post-Communist Europe's largest bank with assets topping $20 billion.
Klaus added that the privatisation of CSOB, which is wholly-owned by Czech and Slovak state institutions, and the selloff of Komercni Banka were complicated because of shareholdings and arrangements between the banks and Slovakia.
British sugar and starch producer Tate and Lyle reported an 11 percent fall in full year profits to 276 million pounds ($463 million) on Wednesday after an earnings drop of more than 50 percent at its U.S. subsidiary Staley.
But the company's shares rose 9-1/2 pence to 479-1/2 after touching 482 as company executives made positive noises about the current trading environment for corn miller Staley, with corn prices now at more normal levels and demand rising for ethanol, which is extracted from the corn.
The price of corn now at $2.60 a bushel has settled after a much larger crop this summer of 9.3 billion bushels, Tate chief executive Larry Pillard told Reuters in an interview.
"I would like to think futures prices will stay at about $2.60 a bushel. At this time last year they were up by 33 percent at 3.50 and as high as five dollars a bushel at mid-year. That's unprecedented, the highest price for 120 years," he said.
Staley was severely squeezed last year. On the one hand by very high corn prices, which doubled after a low U.S. corn crop, and increased competition from new producers of high fructose corn syrup and on the other hand by its inability to pass this added cost onto customers.
"Conditions have reversed this year so that corn milling companies can divert some of their excess capacity into ethanol and that could tighten up the market a bit," he added.
Ethanol, a gasoline substitute, can also be made by corn millers but the price of gasoline was so low last year that this option was closed. Gasoline prices have averaged 63 cents a gallon so far this year, reaching a peak of 77.01 in April, up from 56 cents a gallon in 1995.
"I think that obviously the world grain situation getting back to more normal levels is encouraging, the re-emergence of ethanol is quite encouraging and the three percent increase in sugar deliveries in the U.S. is quite encouraging," said Pillard.
Staley, which produces high fructose corn syrup used as sweeteners in Coca Cola and Pepsi drinks, renegotiates supply contracts with soft drinks firms at the beginning of every calender year. Pillard said it was too early to comment on the next round of contracts.
"It looks like Staley has finally hit the bottom of the cycle," said one analyst who declined to be named.
Tate benefited in the last quarter of the year from a recovery in the U.S. sugar market where the selling price of white sugar rose after a low U.S. beet crop reduced supplies.
Cane raw sugar costs declined as supplies of cane raw sugar rose due to increases in the import quota.
North American sweeteners and starches business chipped in 116.2 million pounds in the year ended September 28, down from 170.9 million, as a result of Staley.
European profits rose 8.0 million to 152.5 million pounds, with increased security of supply to Tate's sugars from the new European Union Sugar Regime and progress at Amylum, its European cereal sweetener and starch business.
Trading profit from its emerging markets business was up 6.4 million at 31.5 million. Tate's animal feed and bulk storage business showed a slight profit improvement to 36.8 million.
Tate reported a currency loss of 3.5 million pounds in the year, against a gain of 4.8 million last time, due to sterling's strength against the dollar.
The board recommended a final dividend of 11.7p, bringing the total for the year to 17.0p, an increase of six percent. ($1=.5956 Pound)
Luxury goods maker Vendome on Wednesday blamed poor tourist spending in the Far East for a 4.6 percent drop in first half profits, but hoped this would recover when the yen recovers its strength.
The group, whose exclusive brands include Cartier, Dunhill and Karl Lagerfeld, saw pretax profits fall to 113 million pounds ($190 million) from, 118.5 million, while sales rose to 703.6 million from 699.5 million.
A fall in interest income to 3.2 million pounds from 5.7 million contributed to the profit decline, the company said.
Chairman Joseph Kanoui said he believed the drop in Far East demand was temporary and would pick up when the yen recovered.
"The decrease in tourist spending in the Far East, we believe, is a direct result of the weakening of the yen in the second half of last year," he said in a statement.
"The combination of these two factors has particularly affected those of our brands which have a greater proportion of their sales in the Far East."
Vendome's profits fell short of market expectations which had looked for earnings of between 125 million and 135 million pounds. Its shares were five pence lower at 535.5.
The group, 70 percent owned by South African-controlled Richemont Securities, was set up three years ago as part of a reorganisation of the luxury goods and tobacco businesses of Compagnie Financiere Richemont AG, Dunhill Holdings and Rothmans International.
In Swiss francs, pretax profits fell 2.1 percent to 214.7 million ($166.3 million) in the six months to September 30.
Sales of jewellery in the first half decreased below last year by 17.4 percent and sales of leather goods, whch mostly depend on consumer demand in the Far East, fell by 2.3 percent.
Sales of watches rose by 10.4 percent and writing instrument sales increased by 1.7 percent over last year. Perfume sales showed an increase of 20.4 percent over last year, reflecting the success of the new Cartier fragrance launched in the second half of last year, but menswear sales were slightly down.
Cartier, founded in Paris in 1847, now has 164 retail outlets and provides an estimated 80 percent of group profits. Other Vendome brands include luxury writing goods maker Mont Blanc and Alfred Dunhill.
The group said it had made significant investments in the first half to boost its retail and wholesale network and in advertising major new products.
It is also building a new factory in France for leather goods, due to open next year. The group said this would give better control over production and higher margins. ($1=.5956 Pound) ($1=1.2908 Swiss Franc)
Tax changes on long-term assets made in the British budget sparked falls in utility sector stocks on Wednesday but analysts said the concerns might be overdone and expected the sector to recover.
"It is not a welcome move but it should not be a disaster. I do not think it should have a significant impact," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
The changes, proposed by finance minister Kenneth Clarke in the budget on Tuesday, cut capital allowances on assets with a working life of over 25 years to six percent from 25 percent.
The Treasury said it hoped to raise around 1 billion pounds ($1.68 billion) over three years from the move.
Shares in utilities fell across the board, with water company Anglian Water down five pence to 566 pence at 1150 GMT, Yorkshire Water losing seven pence to 677 pence and Severn Trent slipping nine pence to 671 pence.
Multi-utility Hyder slid 18 pence to 738 pence.
Among energy and power companies, PowerGen shed eight pence to 571.5 pence and Yorkshire Electricity lost 7.5 pence to 772 pence.
"The tax changes are definitely why the shares are down," one analyst said. The proposals will affect companies spending over 100,000 pounds a year on long-term fixed assets with exceptions for shipping and rail businesses and office buildings.
Utilities could be particularly vulnerable because they have large amounts of infrastructure and plant which will require future investment, analysts said.
"But a billion pounds across all companies means the impact will be pretty small for each business," one analyst said.
Companies were largely unwilling to comment immediately on the likely impact, with United Utilities and Southern Electric both saying it was too early to assess.
But both companies might give further details when they report half year results on Thursday, analysts said.
The change has been seen by some observers as pre-empting the opposition Labour party's proposals for a one-off "windfall" tax levy on utilities for what are seen as excess past profits.
These plans, from a party which is well ahead of the Conservative government in polls running up to a general election in the next six months, have been keeping a dampener on utility stocks recently.
Analysts said the changes in the budget would mean that any windfall tax imposed by a Labour government might hit companies harder.
Estimates are that a Labour government might seek to raise five billion pounds or more from such a measure in order to finance measures to combat youth and long-term unemployment.
At the same time, Labour might seek to reverse the changes on capital allowances, analysts said, as it pushes for increased investment by companies.
"These measures could reduce Labour's ability to push ahead with any windfall tax, on the other hand the party might repeal the changes to encourage investment," the analyst said.
"Utility shares have been discounted because of worries over any plans for a windfall tax by Labour. Today's falls could make some of them more attractive for canny investors," he added. ($1=.5956 Pound)
Lord Douro, deputy chairman of Vendome Luxury Goods, whose products are especially popular with Japanese consumers, said he thinks the yen has stabilised against the dollar and may improve.
"Chinese demand continues to increase strongly and the Japanese currency will stabilise if not improve from here and we will benefit from that," said Douro in an interview.
The yen reached a five year low of 82.52 against the dollar in April 1995. This April 1, at the start of Vendome's half year reporting period ending September 30, it stood at 107.17, before rising to around its current 111 level.
Anglo-French Eurotunnel SA/Plc on Wednesday sought to reassure the public about the safety of the Channel Tunnel following last week's fire which halted most rail services between France and Britain.
"There is no doubt the tunnel is at least as safe as other Channel transport systems," French co-chairman Patrick Ponsolle told a news conference.
A fire in a truck on a freight train seriously damaged a section of the tunnel on Monday last week, injuring 34 people and raising doubts over the safety of the cross-Channel service.
The Eurostar high-speed passenger train and Le Shuttle car and passenger services have been halted ever since, although a limited freight service has resumed.
"Safety is our first consideration, ahead of commercial considerations," British co-chairman Robert Malpas said. "The emergency evacuation procedure which forms the backbone of the safety system worked after two other measures failed."
The cause of the fire remains a mystery, although sabotage is seen as one possibility by the French magistrate investigating the fire.
"The judge has not ruled out the theory of foul play," said a Eurotunnel spokeswoman.
But legal sources said the idea that the fire was started deliberately was regarded as a remote possibility and not the most likely cause.
Ponsolle said Eurotunnel's maximum potential loss from the fire was five to seven million pounds ($8.40 million to $11.75 million).
"The ultimate maximum loss for the company after receiving insurance indemnities could be of the order of five or six or seven million pounds," he said.
Eurotunnel's monthly turnover before the fire was between 350 and 400 million francs ($67.75 million and $77.43 million). Loss of revenues would depend on the re-establishment of a partial service, he said.
If passenger and freight services resumed to 50-60 percent of previous capacity this would mean a maximum monthly loss of 200 million francs, Ponsolle said.
Eurotunnel's maximum insurance coverage is 1.5 billion francs for equipment and 4.5 billion for earnings losses, Ponsolle said.
Eurotunnel hopes to resume partial passenger service early next week, if the safety commission that oversees the tunnel approves a new set of temporary evacuation measures, Ponsolle said.
Because a two km (1.243 mile) section of one of the tunnel bores cannot be used for evacuation, the company is laying on special fire-fighting and ambulance crews on 24 hour alert, with two wagons for extricating passengers.
The train which was destroyed in the fire was worth nearly 100 million francs and repairs to the tunnel and related equipment would cost between 200 million and 500 million. But Eurotunnel is awaiting the results of insurance investigations into the costs of the fire.
Ponsolle said the blaze should not affect a complex plan to restructure the company's 70 billion francs of junior bank debt which took a year to negotiate.
"There is no reason for us to put into question the restructuring," he told reporters.
"We do not see at this stage there needs to be any delay in the rescheduling of the debt," Malpas told Reuters Financial Television when asked whether the banks had asked for new clauses to be added to its restructuring because of the fire.
"The creditor banks have been very understanding; they wish us well...they see it as an incident which we will get over and which will be contained in insurance arrangements and the financial arrangements we have set up," Malpas said.
Ponsolle said the company did not face any problems with cashflow. Eurotunnel had 100 million pounds ($167.7 million) in cash holdings and "it is not under financial pressure to reopen services". ($1=.5956 Pound) ($1=5.166 French Franc)
The former long-time head of Britain's General Electric Plc said in a newspaper interview on Wednesday the group was ready to deal with whoever won ownership of state-owned Thomson SA.
The comments to the Les Echos newspaper by Lord Weinstock, GEC's chairman emeritus since September, followed a statement by Alcatel Alsthom chairman Serge Tchuruk that he was ready to make a new offer for the state electronics group if a December 31 validity deadline for current offers passes.
Tchuruk added he was willing to adjust his company's bid to recent developments and suggested the state might want to spread the privatisation of Thomson SA out over time.
In October, the French government decided to sell Thomson SA for one franc to Lagardere Groupe after a 11 billion franc ($2.1 billion) cash injection, instead of to Alcatel.
This decision awaits approval of the European Commission (EC) as well as France's Privatisation Commission.
While the EC decision could be due in the first half of December, the Privatisation Commission will not render its decision until after the Brussels' stance is known.
The French Finance Ministry has conceded that the entire operation may not be finished before December 31, a date after which theoretically both the Lagardere and Alcatel bids expire.
The announcement of a possible new Alcatel bid caused a slide in the company's shares, down 1.5 percent at 455.20 francs at midday, because investors did not like the new uncertainty.
Lagardere plans to merge Thomson's 58 percent-owned defence unit Thomson-CSF with its Matra Defence Espace unit while selling consumer electronics group Thomson Multimedia to Daewoo Electronics of South Korea for one franc.
The second sale has caused a public outcry and thousands of Thomson employees have protested in France's main cities, fearing for their jobs and severe Korean working conditions, despite job creation promises by Daewoo.
A group of Thomson workers in the western town of Angers are currently walking to Paris in a protest action, aiming to arrive in the capital in time for a December 6 shareholders meeting.
Part of Alcatel's plans were to combine the Thomson-CSF business with its own defence activities and then merge these with GEC's Marconi to create a defence electronics giant.
Weinstock said that neither Lagardere's plan to merge Matra with Thomson-CSF, nor Alcatel's defence activities with Thomson-CSF, would give spectacular effects.
"Only a merger between Thomson-CSF and Marconi would produce the necessary economies of scale and a good combination of products," he said, adding the combined company would have about $11 billion of annual sales.
Alcatel had said it intended to find a European industrial partner for Thomson-CSF. While the company has long standing links with GEC through GEC-Alsthom, Tchuruk did not want to exclude a link with Germany's Deutsche Aerospace.
In a statement, Foreign Affairs minister Herve de Charette formally denied his staff would have handed a report to President Jacques Chirac about an alleged dinner conversation between Weinstock and GEC chief executive George Simpson in which they allegedly planned to seize control of the new defence grouping.
Weinstock told Les Echos such a conversation had not taken place but said a report which contained a summary of the alleged conversation existed.
"Yes, that report exists and has been very damaging for the Alcatel position, people told us," Weinstock said.
The French Industry Minister on Wednesday angrily reminded the chairman of Britain's General Electric Co Plc of his conditions for an Anglo-French nuclear merger on the day the plan was set to go ahead.
Franck Borotra issued a statement saying French interests needed to keep a majority in a merged combination of the GEC Alsthom joint-venture and state-controlled Framatome in reaction to the publication of an interview with GEC chairman Lord Weinstock in which he said he wanted at least 50 percent.
In a supervisory board meeting on Wednesday, Framatome shareholders are set to appoint Dominique Vignon as chairman and chief executive, replacing Jean-Claude Leny who had openly criticised the plan.
"The Minister of Industry, Post and Telecommunications, Franck Borotra, would like to recall that the study of a merger of GEC-Alsthom and Framatome, undertaken at the behest of GEC and Alcatel, can only be completed if five conditions are respected," the Industry Ministry said in a statement.
The conditions are that the state keep control of strategic decisions concerning nuclear activities, the continuation of Franco-German cooperation on the future EPR power station, preservation of the identity of Framatome's nuclear activities, the predominance of French interests in the new combination and clear provisions for nuclear risks.
Framatome has a technical alliance with Siemens to develop the future European nuclear power station.
"These conditions are non-negotiable because they constitute French control over its nuclear activities. They (the conditions) should notably lead to a shareholders' pact between the French parties," the statement said.
Weinstock told French financial daily Les Echos the merger talks should not change the balance of power in the joint Anglo-French venture with Alcatel Alsthom.
"The operation concerns mainly the relations within GEC-Alsthom...the balance in the company should not be changed," he said. "We should have the same stake as Alcatel Alsthom. Not more and not less. Even if we have to pay a dowry for it."
Alcatel has a 44 percent stake in Framatome and its chairman Serge Tchuruk has said in the past that he expected French interests to have a majority in the new enlarged group.
In a second phase, Tchuruk wanted to float a part of GEC-Alsthom Framatome on the share market in order to focus the venture's management on financial performance.
The French state gave a green light to the planned merger in August after years of opposition to Alcatel taking a majority stake in Framatome.
"Framatome is an important operation because nuclear power will become an alternative again. There are going to be new nuclear construction programmes even though there are none at the moment. GEC Alsthom will have a good card to play with Framatome," Weinstock said.
Framatome is currently controlled by the government through state owned energy holding group CEA-Industrie, with 36 percent, electricity utility EdF with 11 percent and the Consortium de Realisation (CDR) with four percent.
Asked by Les Echos whether he accepted the French idea of a shareholders' pact, Weinstock said, "No. We want to maintain our partnership. We do not want to become a minority that can be manipulated."
Larry Pillard, chief executive of British sugar and starch producer Tate and Lyle, said on Wednesday the company's beleagured North American unit Staley should benefit from improved market conditions this year.
"Conditions have reversed this year so that corn milling companies can divert some of their excess capacity into ethanol and that could tighten up the market a bit," he said.
Wet corn miller Staley posted a 50 percent fall in earnings because of a record increase in maize costs, dragging down group pretax profits for the year by some 35 million to 276.3 million.
Australia's second largest bank Westpac Banking Group renewed its interest in Asia on Wednesday through an alliance with British-based Standard Chartered Bank, 3-1/2 years after its sold a swag of its Asian units.
The move signals Westpac is ready to expand in Asia again after largely withdrawing from the region to focus on Australia and New Zealand during the last Australian recession.
Under the alliance Westpac and Standard Chartered would share banking services for medium-to-large scale corporate customers in their respective dominant markets of Australia and New Zealand and Asia.
Westpac chief executive Bob Joss said in a statement that the initiative was of major importance to Westpac.
"It is a good strategic fit for our future growth," he said. Standard Chartered group chief executive Malcolm Williamson said his bank was committed to "ensuring this new relationship with Westpac is of significant long-term benefit to both companies".
The venture would focus primarily on Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, before expanding into Vietnam and China in about six months, said David Morgan, group executive of Westpac's Institutional and International Banking.
"Initially the main purpose of this relationship is to provide select Asian banking services to Westpac's medium to large customers -- including cash management services, local Asian currency lending, local transaction facilities and trade finance facilities," the banks said in a joint statement.
The banks expect quick success from the alliance.
"We expect it to be a fairly rapidly growing revenue stream," Morgan told Reuters.
Westpac reported a A$16 million (US$12.8 million) profit in the year to September 30, 1996 from its Asian operations compared with A$10 million in 1994/95.
But, Morgan said he could not say how much revenue the alliance would produce in its first year of business or how much Westpac had invested in the venture, which started on Wednesday.
"We have made a substantial investment already, but it is going to be a continuing investment as we expand our capabilities across Asia," Morgan said.
The move was a cheap way of getting into Asia by Westpac, banking analysts said. "It gives them access to markets in a fairly cost effective way," said Graham Maloney, banking analyst at brokers Macquarie Equities. "It's a good thing. It gives them exposure to an area that is very fast growing."
Westpac has banking licences is some Asian countries, but its activities are limited, Westpac's Morgan said.
Traders welcomed news of the alliance pushing Westpac shares up two cents to A$7.36, while the overall market was lower.
The link with Westpac follows Standard Chartered's Asian pact formed with the U.S. First Chicago NBD Corp last week.
"They (Standard Chartered) are obviously looking around the region for alliances," one Melbourne-based analyst said.
Westpac's alliance with Standard Chartered also comes ahead of an inquiry into Australia's finance and banking industry, which could see further deregulation and some mega-mergers.
The inquiry's final report is due next March.
Last month, speculation mounted that Standard Chartered was looking at a merger with another Australian bank, the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ), but this was denied by Melbourne-based ANZ. (AUD=US$0.80)
Westpac Banking Group, the second largest bank in Australia, announced plans on Wednesday to expand its Asian activities through an alliance with British-based Standard Chartered Bank Plc.
The move signals Westpac is ready to expand in the region again after putting most of its Asian activities up for sale 3-1/2 years ago to focus on Australasia.
At the time a recession was biting deeply into profits and the share register held potential predators such as Australia's richest man Kerry Packer and Lend Lease Corp Ltd.  
Westpac chief executive Bob Joss said in a statement the deal with Standard Chartered was of major importance.
"It is a good strategic fit for our future growth," he said. Standard Chartered group chief executive Malcolm Williamson said his bank was committed to "ensuring this new relationship with Westpac is of significant long term benefit to both companies".
The venture would focus primarily on Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, before expanding into Vietnam and China in about six months, said David Morgan, group executive of Westpac Institutional and International Banking.
Westpac Banking Corp said on Wednesday it expected rapid revenue growth from the alliance it had formed with Standard Chartered Bank Plc for banking services in Asia.
"We expect it to be a fairly rapidly growing revenue stream," said David Morgan, group executive of Westpac's Institutional and International Banking Group.  
However, Morgan said he could not say how much revenue the alliance would produce in its first year of business or how much Westpac had invested in the venture, which officially started on Wednesday.
The banks said earlier there would be no exchange of equity between the two.
"We have made a substantial investment already, but it is going to be a continuing investment as we expand our capabilities across Asia," Morgan told Reuters by telephone.  
Westpac has no plans to extend the alliance beyond Asia to the Middle East and Africa, where Standard Chartered also has operations.
"We are going to purely focus it on Asia," Morgan said.
The venture would focus primarily on Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, before expanding into Vietnam and China in about six months, Morgan said.
Seven of Japan's eight biggest life insurers said on Wednesday that they experienced a drop in assets in the first half of the current fiscal year, the first such fall in many years.
Executives attributed the decline to a cancellation of pension fund management contracts after the firms cut their guaranteed rate of return in April.
"It was the first time we have seen a drop in assets since we started announcing our interim business reports (six years ago)," said Taichi Ohtaki, managing director of Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co. "It would probably be the first time we have experienced a decline in our assets since World War Two."
Combined assets at the eight firms totalled 142.8 trillion yen ($1.26 trillion) at the end of September, down 1.2 percent from 144.6 trillion yen ($1.27 trillion) at the end of March.
Only Nippon Life Insurance Co, the biggest life insurer in Japan, increased its assets -- to 39.44 trillion yen ($349 billion) from 39.03 trillion yen ($345 billion).
The other firms are Meiji Life Insurance, Sumitomo Life Insurance, Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance, Mitsui Mutual Life Insurance, Yasuda Mutual Life Insurance and Chiyoda Mutual Life Insurance.
Assets of the eight account for about 75 percent of the total assets held by all Japanese life insurers.
The executives said that some corporate pension funds and the Pension Welfare Service Public Corp (PWSPC) -- an affiliate of the Welfare Ministry -- had cancelled fund management contracts in the first half of 1996/97, due to a cutback in the guaranteed rate of return offered by life insurers to 2.5 percent from 4.5 percent.
The PWSPC said earlier this year that it had cancelled about five trillion yen ($44.2 billion) worth of fund management contracts with 18 life insurers.
However, some insurers were optimistic and said the decline in assets was only a temporary phenomenon.
"I think the cancellation of pension funds peaked out in the first half and assets at the end of next March will likely recover to the same level as at the end of last fiscal year," said Minoru Mochida, senior managing director at Meiji Life.
Analysts said that despite the decline in assets, the profitability of the insurers was improving.
A serious headache for the insurers has been the negative spread between current low investment yields and already promised payouts, they said. Since the cancellation of pension fund management contracts, the gap has been narrowing.
The payouts are calculated based on prospective investment yields at the time insurance policies were written.
Meiji Life's Mochida said the overall average guaranteed rate of return offered by life insurers would fall to about four percent in 1996/97 from about five percent in 1995/96, while investment yields would remain low at around three percent.
The eight firms also announced a combined 2.15 trillion yen ($19.0 billion) of problem loans as of the end of September, the first time they had revealed such statistics.
They said that at the end of September the amount of this total classified as "bad loans" -- loans to bankrupt companies and those on which interest payments are in arrears of six months or more -- was 1.06 trillion yen ($9.3 billion).
An official at Sumitomo Life said the firm would this fiscal year dispose of about 500 billion yen ($4.42 billion) of problem loans made to its non-bank affiliates in an effort to cut them back to a manageable level. At the end of September Sumitomo had 789.9 billion yen ($6.99 billion) of problem loans, more than any of the eight insurers. ($1=113 yen)
The seven-year-old boy chosen by China as Tibet's second holiest monk attended a ritual in Beijing last week to celebrate the first anniversary of his enthronement, major Chinese newspapers said on Wednesday.
Monks pounded drums, rang bells and chanted Buddhist scriptures as Beijing's choice as the reincarnation of the Panchen Lama visited the Yonghe Lamasery -- the Temple of Harmony and Peace, on November 22, the newspapers said, quoting a report by the official Xinhua news agency.
Xinhua gave no reason for the delay in reporting the celebrations which were held a week before the actual anniversary on November 29.
Tibet's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama, has named another boy as the reincarnation of the 10th Panchen Lama, the Himalayan region's second holiest monk who died in 1989.
Many Tibetans see the Chinese-sanctioned child, Gyantsen Norpo, as a pretender.
State media has given Beijing's choice much publicity in an apparent bid to convince Tibetans that he is the real reincarnation.
Major Chinese newspapers on Wednesday ran a picture of the child wearing traditional robes and a cap and surrounded by monks as he toured the Yonghe Lamasery which was built in 1694.
The boy blessed believers and preached from the seat reserved for the 10th Panchen Lama before his death.
Chinese sources have said Beijing's choice currently lives in the Chinese capital under state protection against any possible assassination attempts by radical Tibetans.
Western human rights groups have accused Beijing of detaining the boy recognised by the Dalai Lama and persecuting monks and nuns who refused to accept Beijing's choice.
The London-based human rights watchdog Tibet Information Network said last week a 19-year-old Tibetan nun had her jail term doubled to 18 years for refusing to recognise Beijing's choice.
China denies the accusations, saying the Dalai Lama's choice is "leading a free life, just like other Tibetan children".
But Beijing has refused to reveal the whereabouts of the Dalai Lama's choice or allow diplomats or foreign reporters to meet the boy.
China has lashed out at the exiled Tibetan leader, quoting the boy it anointed as the Panchen Lama as saying the Dalai Lama was the cause of turmoil in the region.
The Dalai Lama fled his homeland along with thousands of followers in 1959 after an abortive uprising against communist rule. He heads a government-in-exile, which is not recognised by any country, in the Indian town of Dharamsala.
The Dalai Lama won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign for autonomy for his homeland, but Beijing views international support for Tibet's holiest man as a Western plot to split China and contain its development.
Britain and China clashed over the future of Hong Kong on Wednesday as the colonial power took steps to bring in a pre-emptive new law on subversion ahead of the capitalist territory's 1997 return to communist-ruled China.
The quarrel was ignited when the government on Tuesday laid down legal markers defining the concepts of treason, sedition, subversion and secession in a bid to head off Chinese-style jailings of dissidents after Beijing takes over the colony.
The draft bill would jail only people who plot the violent overthrow of government, not non-violent critics and dissidents.
Chinese officials in Hong Kong immediately attacked the move and pro-China politicians said the law would probably be erased and replaced after China resumes sovereignty at midnight next June 30, when a century and a half of colonial rule expires.
A senior negotiator on the Hong Kong handover, Chen Zuo'er, told reporters Britain should not have acted unilaterally, but declined to say if China would repeal the bill if it became law.
A spokesman for China's de facto embassy in the territory attacked the move more sharply. "Britain violated its promise that all major issues must be decided through negotiations with China in the latter stage of transition," the spokesman said.
"Britain will have to take responsibility for all the consequences of amending this law," the spokesman said.
British officials said they were confident the bill could get through the Legislative Council (Legco) next Wednesday. But some pro-China politicians and analysts were sceptical.
"The move itself is bound to be futile. Even if the bill is passed by the present Legco, I don't think there is any chance that it can survive the handover," said Tsang Yok-sing, leader of the biggest pro-Beijing political party in the territory.
"This decision will not be useful because the Chinese side will eventually roll back all the reforms undertaken by the Hong Kong government before July 1997," said analyst Sunny Lo at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
"The Hong Kong government is trying to commit suicide by putting this legislation through Legco," Lo said.
He said China would want a broader definition of subversion that would include subversion in non-violent forms.
Beijing had previously said it opposed any major changes to Hong Kong's criminal law before the change of flag.
Governor Chris Patten, often vilified by Chinese officials, said the government had taken the step only after 17 months of efforts to clinch agreement with China had failed.
He challenged China to say exactly what it objected to in the proposed new bill.
"We've tried to establish in a very reasonable way what these crimes should actually mean," Patten told Hong Kong radio during a visit to Japan. "On this particular issue we really have been negotiating...with a brick wall," he said.
"There's been no response, no give at all," he said, adding that the only alternative to the bill would have been to break the government's word to Legco and the community that it would take action on the issue and ensure Hong Kong's "decent way of life" would not be "swept away" next July.
Independent pro-democracy legislator Emily Lau said she hoped China would not repeal the law, adding that if it did, "that will definitely cause instability in Hong Kong, and it will be a very high price for both China and Hong Kong to pay."
Treason and sedition are already on Hong Kong's law books.
The last time somebody was prosecuted for sedition was in 1953, and for treason in 1946. But These offences have since largely fallen.
Subversion and secession however are new concepts in the law required by China in Hong Kong's post-1997 constitution, known as the Basic Law.
The head of Walt Disney Co's international television business said on Thursday talks with Latin America satellite-television companies could at any moment yield a deal on The Disney Channel.
"The talks are ongoing," Herbert Granath, chairman of Disney/International Television, told Reuters. "We would be capable of reaching a deal in Latin America very quickly."  
Granath said such a deal for carriage of a Spanish version of The Disney Channel would likely be exclusive to one of two big media consortia active in Latin American direct-to-home (DTH) television.
An international group led by DirecTV of Hughes Electronics Corp, prominent in U.S., DTH is competing with another led by News Corp Ltd in offering multi-channel television delivered by high-power satellites.
Granath declined to detail the Latin American DTH talks, other than to say they were at a stage where a deal could come together on short notice. No agreement was imminent, he said.  
Disney earlier announced a 10-year film deal with KirchGroup of Germany which includes an option to distribute a German version of The Disney Channel on Kirch's DF1 satellite-television system.
Kirch will have pay-television and subscriber-television rights to all Disney's live-action movies for a decade.
The companies declined to put a value on the Kirsch deal, but industry executives said the transaction was likely in line with other recent Hollywood deals with Kirsch valued at about $1 billion.
Disney now produces tailored versions of The Disney Channel, a family-oriented entertainment service popular in the United States which draws heavily on Disney's film library, in Taiwan, Australia and Britain. A French version is due in 1997.
"We're concentrating on The Disney Channel," Granath said.
Spain and Italy were other markets where Disney deals might come soon, Granath said.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1713
Chrysler Corp. said Tuesday it has filed an appeal protesting a California Department of Motor Vehicle (DMV) ban on shipping new vehicles to dealers in the state for allegely violating the state's "lemon law."
The move, which had been expected, means the U.S No. 3 automaker can delay any effect of the 45-day ban for years as it pursues an appeal through the legal system.
The ban, issued Oct. 16, came after the DMV determined Chrysler resold 116 vehicles in 1991 and 1992 without properly disclosing their so-called lemon status to the new owners.
Under California's lemon law, an automaker must buy back a car from a first owner if the vehicle spends 30 days in a repair shop during the first year of ownership or if a specific problem has not been fixed after three attempts.
Once the cars are repaired, automakers must notify used car customers that the vehicles were repurchased under the lemon law because of chronic problems.
In its appeal to California's New Motor Vehicle Board, Chrysler called the DMV's actions a "Draconian penalty." The company argued that it complied with the lemon law as it was written at the time of the vehicle sales.
Chrysler said the statute in effect at the time was vague about which vehicles repurchased by manufacturers had to be branded as lemons.
Specifically, it said the law did not address disclosures relating to the resale of other vehicles bought back by automakers, such as those repurchased after informal dispute resolutions, or as part of a legal settlement.
Chrysler said it made good-faith efforts to keep used-car buyers informed about the vehicles they were purchasing. The company also complained about the economic ramifications of the penalty on its 240 California dealers.
"The economic harm to the dealers and their employees caused by this action has been well documented but ignored by the DMV," the company said in its appeal.
The New Motor Vehicle Board, which was set up to render an impartial view on regulatory actions, can reverse or amend the DMV's decision.
Chrysler sold nearly 170,000 new cars and trucks in California in 1995, representing close to 8 percent of its annual volume, according to R.L. Polk &amp; Co.
The DMV ban, which would have taken effect Monday, was hailed by consumer advocates as the first tough stance aimed at ending the process of so-called "lemon laundering."
Shareholders are troubled about negotiations between Barrick Gold Corp and Bre-X Minerals Ltd over the huge Busang gold deposit in Indonesia.
Some Bre-X shareholders are concerned they may be pushed into a bad deal; while some Barrick shareholders are worried they could emerge from any deal with a poor reputation.
"Shareholders are very vocal at this point," gold analyst Michael Fowler of brokerage Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion said Friday. "And you've got some influential shareholders here."
Many big institutions hold both stocks, he noted.
"I think it's the responsibility of Barrick to be responsible here, given that Bre-X has a gun to its head."
Earlier this week, Calgary-based Bre-X said the Indonesian government had told it to negotiate with gold giant Barrick Gold to carve up Bre-X's stake in Busang.
Jakarta wants Barrick to control 75 percent and Bre-X to control 25 percent, while both are to consider giving a 10 percent stake to the Indonesian government, Bre-X said.
"It's got to be a fair deal. Barrick can't screw Bre-X shareholders or there will be hell to pay," said Fowler.
If Barrick makes what is seen as a fair deal with Bre-X, shareholders may be prepared to ignore the fact that Bre-X is negotiating with a gun to its head, oberved a portfolio manager at one Canadian institution that has significant holdings in both companies.
"Everybody can sort of hold their nose and say, this thing smells, but it doesn't smell too badly," said the source, who asked not to be indentified.
However, if Barrick takes advantage of its favorable position and does not treat Bre-X fairly, "then it smells very, very bad," the portfolio manager said.
"The constraint on Barrick is that they have to go back to the capital markets from time to time doing other deals. "It's a question of sawing off somewhere where it smells but doesn't smell too bad," he told Reuters.
Retail shareholders are expressing their worries too.
One Bre-X shareholder, Gregory Chorny, who said he and his family owned about one percent of Bre-X's issued shares, circulated a letter to other shareholders on Friday, urging them to register their concerns by faxing a form letter to Barrick and Bre-X.
"I wish to register my concern with these developments and put both Bre-X and Barrick on notice that any transaction struck between them must fully represent full and fair value to Bre-X shareholders," the letter reads.
"I and other like-minded Bre-X shareholders plan to watch developments closely and are prepared to take appropriate action to ensure the rights of Bre-X shareholders are fully respected."
The letter demands access to any internal or external resource calculations so that shareholders can better judge the fair value of any deal between the two companies.
"We've had 4 1/2 months of drills working on that site and no published results. How can anyone possibly comment on the value?" Chorny told Reuters.
While Chorny acknowledged it is too early to judge the success of campaign, he said he had consulted with  "several dozens" of concerned Bre-X shareholders.
A fax machine at Bre-X was reportedly spewing out letters from shareholders at full tilt. Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said his company's fax machines were no busier than usual.
Toronto-Dominion Bank extended the run of record Canadian bank profits on Thursday with a 15 percent jump in 1996 earnings and a dividend hike for its shareholders.
Canada's fifth largest bank said net income climbed to C$914 million in the year ended October 31 from C$794 million in 1995. Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia earlier this week posted record full-year earnings.
The strong results prompted TD Bank to boost its quarterly dividend by C$0.03 to C$0.28 a share.  
Bank of Nova Scotia raised its dividend by C$0.03 a share to C$0.37 a share on Wednesday.
TD Bank said its performance reflected strong growth in other income, with significant gains in investment banking, brokerage and mutual fund businesses.
The bank's loan loss provision also sank to its lowest level in more than a decade.
"With a solid financial performance and progress in developing our businesses, TD had a positive impact on the Canadian economy in 1996," chairman and chief executive Richard Thomson said in a statement.  
Return on equity, a key measure of profitability, rose to 15.4 percent in 1996 from 14.3 percent last year.
The bank's fourth-quarter earnings were in line with analysts' estimates.
Earnings rose to C$0.79 a share in the fourth quarter ended October 31 from C$0.71 a share in the same period in 1995.
The consensus analysts' forecast was for C$0.79 a share in the fourth quarter.
"They were dead on expectations. The dividend increase was also expected," said Hugh Brown, an analyst with Nesbitt Burns Inc.  
Analysts said the revised loan loss provision was a surprise. The bank cut its 1996 provision to C$152 million from a previous third-quarter estimate of C$170 million and from C$180 million in 1995.
Net impaired loans in the fourth quarter fell C$95 million to C$344 million. "This decline was largely due to improvement in real estate loans to corporate borrowers," the bank said.
Net impaired loans as a percentage of total loans and acceptances dropped to 0.4 percent at year end. TD stock was up 0.80 to 37.65 on turnover of 821,000 shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  
TD  hit a 52-week high of 38.10 earlier in the session.
TD president Charles Baillie said Canada's low interest rates should boost consumer confidence and economic activity in 1997. That in turn was expected to increase demand for the bank's investment products.
"With the acceleration of growth in investment banking, brokerage, mutual funds, investment management and electronic banking services, TD is positioned to perform well in this environment," said Baillie.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100
The Czech Statistical Bureau
(CSU) said on Thursday it would change its methodology for
calculating industrial production, to bring it in line with
western standards.
CSU Chairman Edvard Outrata said the change, which updates
the old methodology introduced in 1953 under communist
planning, would take effect in January 1997.
The new methodology excludes multiple calculation of
semi-finished products, resources, and other materials and
commodities, which were included in output data at every stage
under the old method measuring the gross value of all goods
produced, the CSU said.
The new index will measure output changes by units, weight
or other measurements, of the total of 1,304 products out of
879 product groups consisting of one or more similar products.
The product groups's output indices will be placed in
sectors, using weighting equal to their weight in the
respective industrial sector.
The overall index will be calculated from weighted changes
in the sectoral indices.
Outrata said the old system of measuring "gross
production", or "goods production" was suited for the
management of a planned economy as it allowed to measure the
total summ of production and compare it with state plans.
Construction output data will be adjusted to the new
methodology at the beginning of 1998, Outrata added.
Preliminary monthly data will be released on the 40th day
after the end of the month being examined.
Outrata also said the data would include seasonally
adjusted and figures adjusted if the number of working days in
the period differed from previously measured periods.
He added the CSU would gradually, throughout next year,
start releasing seasonally adjusted and pro-rated figures for
most data on the same day as the raw figures.
 MONTH ('96)	REAL IND. OUTPUT		REAL IND. OUTPUT
		   UNDER CURRENT METHOD (YR/YR)   UNDER NEW METHOD
 Sept (pct)	   +6.9				 +7.8
 August		 +5.9				 +0.9
 July		  +15.7				+24.5
 June		   +1.5				 +2.2
 May		    +6.0				 +1.8
 April		 +12.8				 +6.9
 March		  +4.5				 +2.1
 Feb		   +13.4				+12.2
 Jan		   +12.0				 +7.8
Note. Current methodology examines companies with over 100
employees and includes estimates for smaller firms. The new
methodology includes data from some 5,200 firms with 25 or more
employees. As of January, it will include data form firms with
20 or more workers.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Stagecoach, the British bus and rail group which has seen its share price grow fivefold in three years, Thursday posted a bumper 127 percent rise in first-half profits, boosting its stock to a record high.
The Scottish-based group, which has enjoyed explosive growth since its flotation in 1993, said half year pre-tax profits climbed to a record 47 million pounds ($79 million). The half year dividend rose 43 percent to 3 pence (5 cents) a share and group revenues leapt to 405 million pounds ($679.0 million) from 198.8 million ($333.3 million).
Chairman Brian Souter called the results excellent.
Shares in Stagecoach were up 45.5 pence (76.28 cents) at 629 ($10.54) by 1350 GMT (8:50 a.m. EST), leading a fleet of other bus companies higher in its wake. Go-Ahead Group rose 15 pence to 411.5 ($6.90) and Cowie Group added 5.5 pence (9.2 cents) to 396p ($6.63).
"It's good news all round. The profits are two million ($3.4 million) above what I expected. We're upgrading our year forecast by five million ($8.4 million) to 97 million pounds ($162.6 million)," said UBS analyst Richard Hannah.
The results were the first since the group's high profile acquisitions of British rail rolling stock company Porterbrook and the Swedish bus group Swebus.
"The integration of Porterbrook and Swebus is proceeding and I am confident of a successful outcome," said Souter.
Porterbook and the bus operations were the real driver behind the growth in profits. The figures were also flattered by a one-off gain of 15 million pounds ($25.1 million) from the sale of a 21.7 percent stake in Strathclyde Buses. This was reflected in the high half-year payout.
Porterbook's profits were better than expected at 13.5 million pounds ($22.6 million) in the six weeks since it was acquired.
"That's about two million ($3.4 million) profit a week on operating profit margins of 40 percent," said Hannah.
Stagecoach finance director Keith Cochrane said operating profits would ease slightly in the latter part of the year as the company took on "on-going expenditure for maintenance."
He forecast Porterbrook would still perform strongly, although margins would not be as high as in the first six weeks.
Total sales in the bus operation rose to 232.2 million pounds ($389.3 million) against 189.2 million ($317.2 million), yielding profits of 34.6 million ($58 million) versus 29.0 million ($48.6 million).
South West Trains, a new business, saw sales of 128 million pounds ($214.6 million) and profits of 500,000 pounds ($838,222).
Porterbrook sales were 33.6 million pounds ($56.3 million), with 13.5 million ($22.6 million) profit and Swebus sales came in at 11.3 million ($18.9 million), with 600,000 pounds ($1 million) in profit.
Stagecoach, which started out as a brother and sister team in Scotland, was floated in 1993 at 112 pence ($1.87) a share. The share price has doubled this year.
Three of Britain's largest bulding societies, which plan stock market flotations in 1997, on Thursday said draft legislation relating to protection from takeovers had forced them to examine their float plans closely.
The mutually-owned societies, who specialise in mortgage lending, the Woolwich, Alliance &amp; Leicester and the Northern Rock, all plan to convert to bank status next year and have combined assets of around 70 billion pounds ($117 billion).
But a change in the draft of a new Building Societies Act has thrown their plans into confusion as the government proposes to change the way converted societies will be treated in the crucial area of takeover bids.
The issue is most pressing for the Alliance &amp; Leicester as it seems highly unlikely that the new draft will be ready before Alliance members meet on December 10 to vote on conversion.
Previously, converting societies were protected by a rule which protected them from takeover for five years after flotation, allowing them to make the transition successfully.
Until now, the only one to have gone through the process is the Abbey National, which converted to a bank in 1989.
Draft legislation is now under consideration although it is doubtful whether there will time for it to become law before next year's general election.
The draft proposes that societies lose their immunity from takeover if they merge with another "financial institution" (after flotation) even on an agreed basis.
A Treasury spokeswoman said this did not include the buying of mortgage portfolios from other financial institutions.
The Treasury argues that converting societies should play by the market rules and that the focus of the bill is on those societies who want to remain mutual.
"The loss of the five year protection if any acquisition is undertaken - not just a hostile bid - seems a little unfair," Adam Applegarth, director of Northern Rock told Reuters.
The Teasury said it was considering representations to retain immunity in the case of friendly mergers where a large society might merge with a small local institution.
Applegarth said the Northern Rock and other societies were also very concerned at another proposed clause which would allow shareholders of the new company to waive the five year protection, saying this could allow takeovers by the backdoor.
He said a predator might be able to buy up 10 percent of the stock of the company and announce a bid at the same time, calling an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders which would be asked to waive the protection, bypassing the board.
The societies all said the uncertainty was the biggest problem at the moment -- what the bill will say and also when it will be published and whether it will have time to be passed.
"We think that if there is little chance that the bill will be passed, it would be better not to publish it at all, frankly," said Applegarth.
The societies have a duty to inform members of all possible relevant information so they can make an informed decision.
The Treasury said it hoped to publish its revised proposals next month regardless of whether the bill is likely to pass into law before the election which must be held by May 1997.
A Woolwich spokeswoman said there was no more than a possibility that the draft bill would delay its float. "If the rules are changed, then the board would have a duty to reconsider," she said.
The other societies took a similar view, but the Alliance &amp; Leicester has a particular problem as its members have already been voting on the change by post.
"At the moment we are steaming ahead, we are on schedule," a spokesman for the Alliance said. But he agreed that timing could be affected and confirmed that the Alliance board would discuss the problem at a meeting on Thursday.
The Northern Rock plans to issue its transfer document, to members in early March of next year, but it must be printed in February, leaving little time for the government to produce the finished version of the proposed law ahead of this.
($1=.5956 Pound)
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said on Thursday it would change its methodology for calculating industrial production, to bring it in line with western standards.
CSU Chairman Edvard Outrata said the change, which updates the old methodology introduced in 1953 under communist planning, would take effect in January 1997.
The new methodology excludes multiple calculation of semi-finished products, resources, and other materials and commodities, which were included in output data at every stage under the old method measuring the gross value of all goods produced, the CSU said.
The new index will measure output changes by units, weight or other measurements, of the total of 1,304 products out of 879 product groups consisting of one or more similar products.
The product groups's output indices will be placed in sectors, using weighting equal to their weight in the respective industrial sector.
The overall index will be calculated from weighted changes in the sectoral indices.
Outrata said the old system of measuring "gross production", or "goods production" was suited for the management of a planned economy as it allowed to measure the total summ of production and compare it with state plans.
Construction output data will be adjusted to the new methodology at the beginning of 1998, Outrata added.
Preliminary monthly data will be released on the 40th day after the end of the month being examined.
Outrata also said the data would include seasonally adjusted figures and data adjusted if the number of working days in the period differed from previously measured periods.
He added the CSU would gradually, throughout next year, start releasing seasonally adjusted and pro-rated figures for most data on the same day as the raw figures.
 MONTH ('96)	REAL IND. OUTPUT		REAL IND. OUTPUT
		   UNDER CURRENT METHOD (YR/YR)   UNDER NEW METHOD
 Sept (pct)	   +6.9				 +7.8
 August		 +5.9				 +0.9
 July		  +15.7				+24.5
 June		   +1.5				 +2.2
 May		    +6.0				 +1.8
 April		 +12.8				 +6.9
 March		  +4.5				 +2.1
 Feb		   +13.4				+12.2
 Jan		   +12.0				 +7.8
Note. Current methodology examines companies with over 100 employees and includes estimates for smaller firms. The new methodology includes data from some 5,200 firms with 25 or more employees. As of January, it will include data form firms with 20 or more workers.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Chief Executive candidate Tung Chee-hwa, rated by a poll as the best man to deal with China after Britain leaves Hong Kong next year, said a proposed subversion law faces review by the post-colonial government.
"The Basic Law (Hong Kong's post-handover constitution) clearly states that it is up to the future government to draw up its own law on these matters," Tung told about 100 members of the 400-strong Selection Committee that will choose Hong Kong's future leader.
"The Special Administrative Region government will have to review these issues after the handover."
Britain hands its colony back to Beijing at midnight next June 30. The China-controlled Selection Committee is in the midst of a three-day vetting of Tung and two rivals who are bidding to succeed colonial Governor Chris Patten.
The winner will be announced on December 11.
On Tuesday, Britain began the process of bringing in a law on subversion, laying down legal markers defining the concepts of treason, sedition, subversion and secession in a bid to head off Chinese-style jailings of dissidents after the handover.
China has condemned the move but stopped short of saying whether the law would be scrapped when it takes over the territory.
Tung, a billionaire shipping tycoon, also told the committee that Hong Kong should stand by China if Beijing is under sanction by foreign powers.
"If sanction is for political reasons then we have to consider Hong Kong's position. Maybe Hong Kong has to make some sacrifices," he said.
An opinion poll released on Thursday showed Tung to be the favourite among the 967 respondents and indicated 73 percent of them also believed Tung was the candidate best able to communicate with the Chinese government.
The poll, conducted by the Chinese University of Hong Kong, showed that only 7.2 percent thought former chief justice Ti Liang Yang could commmunicate well with Beijing while businessman Peter Woo scored only two percent.
But Yang was seen as being the most impartial of the three and the one most ready to voice his opinion to China.
Asked who was most likely to speak out against Beijing, 31 percent said Yang, 20 percent Tung and 4.8 percent Woo.
After the first day of questioning by the committee on Wednesday, Tung emerged as a better communicator than he had during previous occasions, analysts said.
They said he produced a clearly focused vision for Hong Kong, with the main thrust on putting business and economic interests first.
During the quizzing by committee members representing Hong Kong's business community, Tung blasted the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest, urging it to drop its anti-China stance and to play a positive role in the transition for the sake of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people.
"At present they are objecting to anything Chinese," Tung said. "This is not good in the long term or for the interests of Hong Kong."
The Democrats are boycotting the Selection Committee, condemning its mission to pick the post-colonial leader as undemocratic and its task of assembling a new provisional body to supplant the elected legislature as a violation of handover pledges made by China.
A long-delayed Japanese mission to discuss the details of Tokyo's huge state loans to China has reached basic agreement on 22 development projects proposed by Beijing, Japanese officials said on Thursday.
Projects involving infrastructure, agriculture and environmental protection were likely to be among the recipients of favourable Japanese loans, said Shiro Sadoshima, director of the loan aid division of Japan's Foreign Ministry.
Final decisions had yet to be made on the 22 projects slated to receive the 180 billion yen ($1.6 billion) earmarked for the first year of the yen loan package, which will run from 1996 to 2000, Sadoshima told a news briefing.
Japanese sources in Beijing say discussions on the projects had been long delayed because of faltering relations and Japanese anger at China's nuclear testing that last year led to the freezing of Japanese grant-in-aid.
The 580 billion yen in Japanese soft loans due to be extended to China between 1996 to 2000 were not formally affected by the protest, but no missions to approve their details had been sent since China conducted a nuclear test in May 1995.
Asked if Chinese nuclear testing was a factor in Tokyo's delay in sending the loan mission, Sadoshima said that did not appear to be the case.
"At least, our government has never said that," he said, adding it was incorrect to say work on the loans had been "resumed" -- a word used by other Japanese officials.
"It's not a resumption... We never stopped," he said.
Relations between Beijing and Tokyo have been strained this year by a controversial visit by Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto to a shrine to Japan's war dead and by a territorial dispute over an island group in the East China Sea.
While Chinese state media have been quick to condemn what they call resurgent Japanese militarism, diplomats say Beijing is keen not to allow the disputes to harm an economic relationship in which the soft yen loans are an important part.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai earlier this week warned Japan not to use financial assistance as a form of political pressure, saying to do so could only harm ties.
The yen loans, widely seen in China as a form of reparation for the suffering inflicted by Japan during World War Two, have themselves been a source of dispute.
The rise of the value of the yen in 1994 and 1995 -- which sent the cost of the loans soaring -- prompted howls of Chinese complaints and demands to be allowed to repay in U.S. dollars.
Tokyo refused, but the yen's later decline helped blunt the issue as a potential cause of conflict and both sides have recently shown new willingness to cooperate on other issues.
Prime Minister Hashimoto has been reported as promising to consider lifting the freeze on grant-in-aid to China, but Sadoshima said that issue would not be discussed by the loan mission.
"That's not my department," Sadoshima said.
($1 = 113 yen)
China on Thursday savoured its latest victory in a diplomatic tug-of-war with Taiwan, while the stunned island scrambled to limit the damage from South Africa's decision to abandon it.
South African President Nelson Mandela said in Johannesburg on Wednesday that Pretoria would switch diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing by the end of 1997.
Beijing hailed the move, saying it was in South Africa's interest.
"We ...welcome President Mandela's positive statement concerning normalisation of relations between China and South Africa," Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai told a news briefing in Beijing.
"If South Africa can recognise reality at an earlier date it is in its own interest to do so," Cui said.
Beijing and Taipei have been diplomatic rivals since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949.
China regards Taiwan as a rebel province and has sought to push the island into diplomatic isolation. Taiwan insists its 21 million people should have a voice in international affairs.
South Africa is the biggest of just 30 states that recognise Taiwan's exiled Republic of China rather than the communist People's Republic on the mainland.
The Chinese government spokesman said the People's Republic was the sole, legitimate government of all China.
"South Africa must recognise there is only one China, recognise that Taiwan is a part of China and sever so-called diplomatic relations with Taiwan," Cui said.
Wealthy but diplomatically isolated Taiwan was stunned by Mandela's announcement and scrambled to limit the damage by urging its 29 other allies not to be swayed by China.
"We hope such a situation won't affect our diplomatic relations with other countries...," Taiwan's Foreign Minister John Chang said in a televised news conference in Taipei.
"We will actively negotiate with South Africa in the next 12 months," Chang said, adding that he might visit South Africa before an official visit scheduled for January.
South Africa's Ambassador to Taiwan Johannes Viljoen urged the island not to exact reprisals against Pretoria.
But Taiwan's top economic planner said the island would not continue to encourage investment in South Africa.
Tuntex, one of the island's major business groups, said earlier on Thursday it would respect the government's wishes in deciding whether to move ahead with a planned $3 billion petrochemical project in South Africa.
Taiwan officials said they would conduct an overall review of Taiwanese investments in South Africa, currently totalling over $1.5 billion.
South Africa's decision to switch ties to China sent Taiwan stocks into a brief dive, but the market had recovered by the close. Many businesssmen played down any potential for serious, long-term harm.
The Taiwan dollar closed little changed against its U.S. counterpart despite news of the island's diplomatic setback.
Taiwanese officials blamed China for South Africa's decision to ditch Taiwan, saying China was "buying" foreign ties and damaging chances for reunification between the longtime rivals.
There were no protests at Pretoria's embassy in Taipei, contrasting with the public outrage displayed in previous years after Washington, Seoul and other former allies dropped Taipei for Beijing.
China has captured the big prize in its recognition battle with rival Taiwan after South Africa announced plans to switch formal ties to Beijing.
But the lengthy transition of more than one year signals that much bargaining remains on the shape of future relations between the three governments, diplomats in Beijing said on Thursday.
"We...welcome (South African) President Nelson Mandela's positive statement concerning normalisation of relations between China and South Africa," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Cui Tiankai told a news briefing.
"If South Africa can recognise reality at an earlier date it is in its own interests to do so," he said.
"This is in keeping with the basic interests of the peoples of the two countries," Cui said.
Mandela told reporters in Johannesburg on Wednesday that Pretoria would switch diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing by the end of 1997.
Cui declined to comment on Pretoria's decision to switch only by the end of next year.
"South Africa must recognise there is only one China, recognise that Taiwan is a part of China and sever so-called diplomatic relations with Taiwan," Cui said.
"Taiwan is an inseparable part of China. The People's Republic of China government is the sole, legitimate government of all China," he said.
"This has been our longstanding stand. It is very clear... Our stand has not changed," the spokesman said.
South Africa is the biggest of just 30 states that recognise Taiwan's exiled Republic of China rather than the communist People's Republic on the mainland.
Taiwan and China have been separated since a civil war ended in 1949. China sees Taiwan as a rebel province not entitled to foreign ties while Taiwan insists its 21 million people should have a voice in international affairs.
"The South Africans have been the big fish for China," said a Beijing-based diplomat. "The others are just minnows."
But in most diplomatic divorces, the break is swift, and diplomats said South Africa was still trying to work out its future relationship with both sides.
"They are trying to gain maximum concessions out of the two sides," said a diplomat.
South Africa is probably looking for a package deal that includes investment and trade guarantees under a formal legal framework with Taiwan.
It is also hoping to limit damage.
Mandela, announcing the break wtih Taiwan, pointedly thanked the island for its economic support during his nation's transition from minority, white rule to democracy.
The announcement well ahead of formal recognition would also help South Africa preserve its consulate in the British colony of Hong Kong - which returns to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997.
South Africa had been hoping to maintain official relations with both sides, a goal that proved unrealistic.
Taiwan had also been looking to duplicate a framework with the Pacific states of Fiji, Vanuatu and Papua New Guinea which have formal relations with Beijing but have signed a "mutual recognition pact" with Taipei, diplomats said.
"These smaller states may get away with a format such as this but South Africa apparently was not in the same category," said a diplomat.
Sierra Semiconductor Corp jumped 23 percent Thursday on the expectation the company would emerge as a smaller but more profitable operation after its planned exit from the computer modem business.
The San Jose, Calif., company was up 2-1/8 at 11-3/8 after its announcement Wednesday that it planned to pull out of the highly competitive modem-chip business and focus instead on the fast-growing market for computer networking equipment.  
"Certainly the company will be a much smaller company now, but it will be a more profitable business," said analyst Elias Moosa of Roberston Stephens &amp; Co.
But analysts noted that Sierra still has much painful work ahead of it, including cutting as many as 150 jobs from its workforce, which currently has 500 people, and building up the business of its PMC-Sierra unit, which makes routing devices and chipsets for high-speed computer networks.
The company has announced plans to take a charge against earnings of $50 million to $80 million to write down the value of assets and inventories and cover severance payments.  
Scott Randall of Soundview Financial Group said the company likely would have difficulty selling its modem-chip business.
"Once you announce your intention to exit a business, it becomes a complete buyer's market," he said.
And he said that while the company is focusing on the fastest-growing part of its business, the market for networking chips has begun to attract the attention of much-larger players such as International Business Machines Corp.  
"As the market develops the question is, are they able to make that transition to be a much larger company?" Randall said.
Other analysts were more bullish, even though the company is expected to shrink to slightly more than half its current size in sales.
"It's a positive strategic move," said Miles Kan of Hambrecht &amp; Quist.
"The modem business is a low-margin, commodity business," he said.
The company's PMC-Sierra unit generated $33 million of the company's $117 million in sales in the first half of the year, compared with $45 million in sales of modem chips, Kan said. But the PMC unit is far more profitable, he said.
Sierra's stock has fallen from a high of nearly $25 this year as the computer chip sector has been battered by falling prices and concern about slowing demand. -- Seattle bureau 206-386-4848
European governments and industry on Thursday launched a high-technology programme aimed at staying among the leaders of the world technology race.
Microelectronic Developments for European Applications (MEDEA), a two billion ecu programme for the 1997-2000 period, takes over from the Joint European sub-micron semiconductor initiative (JESSI).
Horst Nasko, Austrian chairman of JESSI and now MEDEA, said that while Europe had closed the technology gap in the past eight years, the new programme was aimed at forging ahead.
"In terms of concrete results, the technology gap that had been growing at the end of the 80s at an alarming rate between Europe and the rest of the world has been substantially closed," Nasko said.
"The most important thing is that we can't be complacent. The race is getting faster and fiercer, new countries like Korea and Taiwan have joined and sitting still means falling behind," he told Reuters at the launch of MEDEA.
MEDEA, which will be based in Paris, will coordinate industry research programmes in six main areas. Three of them, getting half of the funds, are applications in the areas of multimedia, communications, and automobile and traffic systems.
The other three are more basic technologies, as covered by JESSI, in semiconductor design and manufacturing techniques. At stake is a frontline industry on which eight milllion jobs in Europe depend and in which the technology changes with a new generation of chips every three years and a doubling in processing power every 18 months.
"When we started in 1988, Europe was running two generations behind," said Jurgan Knorr of the Siemens AG semicondiuctor group. "We are now among the leaders."
Arthur van der Poel, chairman of Philips Semiconductors which is part of Philips Electronics, said that the three large European chip groups -- Seimens, Philips and SGS Thomson Microelectronics NV -- were among the most financially healthy in the world.
Asked whether Europe needed to continue to put money into an industry that has become strong, Nasko pointed out that the United States, Japan and other regional blocs spend "at least the same, and probably more" on the strategic semiconductor industry, be it through defence programmes or tax breaks.
With JESSI, Europe managed to become independent as far as its chip requirements was concerned. With MEDEA, Europe wants to go further, making even finer chips and bigger silicon wafers to cut costs per chip.
"There is one area where we lag, that is microprocessors. But that situaiton is the same for everybody whose name is not Intel," Nasko said.
Stagecoach, the British bus and rail group which has seen its shareprice grow fivefold in three years, saw its stock hit a record high on Thursday after posting a bumper 127 percent rise in first half profits.
The Scottish-based group which has enjoyed explosive growth since its flotation in 1993, said half year pre-tax profits climbed to a record 47 million pounds ($79 million). The half year dividend rose 43 percent to three pence a share and group turnover leapt to 405 million pounds from 198.8 million.
Chairman Brian Souter called the results excellent.
Shares in Stagecoach were up 45.5 pence at 629 by 1350 GMT, leading a fleet of other bus companies higher in its wake. Go-Ahead Group rose 15 pence to 411.5 and Cowie Group added 5.5 pence to 396p.
"It's good news all round. The profits are two million above what I expected. We're upgrading our year forecast by five million to 97 million pounds," said UBS analyst Richard Hannah.
The results were the first since the group's high profile acquisitions of British rail rolling stock company Porterbrook and the Swedish bus group Swebus.
"The integration of Porterbrook and Swebus is proceeding and I am confident of a successful outcome," said Souter.
Porterbook and the bus operations were the real driver behind the growth in profits. The figures were also flattered by a one-off gain of 15 million pounds from the sale of a 21.7 percent stake in Strathclyde Buses. This was reflected in the high half year payout.
Porterbook's profits were better than expected at 13.5 million pounds in the six weeks since it was acquired.
"That's about two million profit a week on operating profit margins of 40 percent," said Hannah.
Stagecoach finance director Keith Cochrane said operating profits would ease slightly in the latter part of the year as the company took on "on-going expenditure for maintenance".
He forecast Porterbrook would still perform strongly, although margins would not be as high as in the first six weeks.
Total sales in the bus operation rose to 232.2 million pounds against 189.2 million, yielding profits of 34.6 million versus 29.0 million.
South West Trains, a new business, saw sales of 128 million pounds and profits of 500,000 pounds.
Porterbrook sales were 33.6 million pounds, with 13.5 million profit and Swebus sales came in at 11.3 million, with 600,000 pounds in profit.
Stagecoach, which started out as a brother and sister team in Scotland, was floated in 1993 at 112 pence a share. The share price has doubled this year. ($1=.5956 Pound)
Royal Bank of Scotland on Thursday reported a 15 percent rise in full year pretax profits to 695 million pounds ($1.2 billion) as strong growth in its UK and U.S. banking operations offset a dip at its insurance unit.
Chief Executive George Mathewson told Reuters the bank is constantly reviewing its options to expand market share, especially in the south east of England.
"It's right to assume we've been talking to a lot of people," Mathewson said in an interview. "People (who are looking for a tie-up) assume they should talk to us because of our lack of penetration in the south east. All I can say is that we are reviewing all the options."
Earlier this year, Royal Bank's arch-rival Bank of Scotland announced a banking joint venture with retailer Sainsburys and other banks are making moves in the same direction including Abbey National, which on Thursday said it would offer financial services in conjunction with supermarket chain Safeway's loyalty card.
It has long been assumed that Royal Bank would boost its distribution by buying an English home loans institution and Mathewson again refused to rule this out.
"That remains a possibility," he said. "Assuming that a building society became available and that the price was not ridiculous."
Mathewson said any such purchase would have to take into account shareholder value and business criteria like the strength of the brand name.
Some analysts have doubted that Royal Bank's capital position would allow a major purchase but Mathewson dismissed such doubts.
Noting that its capital position had strengthened over the past year, Mathewson said Royal Bank would have no trouble raising money if necessary.
"Whatever we have done with our money has been open to market scrutiny unlike some other companies," Mathewson said. "We didn't just pay it down the drain. If we need money, we will make a case and we will get it."
Royal Bank said its U.S. bank Citizens, based in New England, lifted profits by 61 million pounds, or 57 percent, adding that it will continue its strategy of deepening its franchise and expanding its core business.
Profits were also higher in UK Banking, up 97 million pounds or 22 percent, and this part of the business also showed a healthy improvement in cost-to-income ratio.
The latter fell to 59.2 percent from 63.2 percent while the group ratio was down to 50 percent from 51.7 percent.
Direct Line, which sells motor, house and life insurance, saw profits shrink by 86 million pounds to 26 million for the year as premium rates continued under pressure and it saw increased claims.
Mathewson said he was not really disappointed by the Direct Line result -- "But I'd prefer it (profit) to be bigger, don't get me wrong" -- saying that it stemmed from the higher rate of claims and market pressure against higher prices.
"The pressure in the market means we couldn't put up prices to compensate but we are making an awful lot more than any of our competitors," he said.
Mathewson said the outlook was positive for Direct Line.
"But I'm not jumping to any conclusions. Prices are beginning to move (higher), many companies are losing substantial amounts of money and history tells me that can't continue for very long."
Premier League Sunderland, one of the great names in the history of English soccer, said on Thursday that they hoped to raise up to 12 million pounds ($20 million) through a flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
The north-east club, which won the league title for the sixth and last time in 1936, joins a growing number of clubs seeking to capitalise on the popularity of the national game.
Premier league rivals Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur have full stock market listings while clubs such as Chelsea trade on the secondary market.
Others are expected to follow suit as revenue from a television deal with satellite broadcaster BSkyB and higher crowds help to transform the sport's finances.
Sunderland said that the new funds would be used to add the finishing touches to a new 15 million pounds stadium, reduce borrowing and fund the purchase of new players.
"The proceeds will assist in retaining premier league status and enable the company to capitalise more fully upon the club's name, strong support and new opportunities arising from the move to the new stadium," chairman Bob Murray told a news conference.
Sunderland will leave their century-old Roker Park home at the end of the season and move to a 42,000-capacity stadium built on the site of a former colliery in the heart of the city.
The club, whose last real taste of glory came in 1973 when they won the F.A. Cup, are optimistic that the move to a new stadium will herald a period of prosperity on and off the pitch.
Sunderland were promoted to the premier league last season and forecast that increased gate receipts and television revenue would help double turnover this season to 13.6 million pounds.
Murray said that the new stadium should allow Sunderland to boost its season ticket holders from 17,000 to around 28,000. Roker Park is in a dilapidated state and large parts of the 22,000 capacity ground are vast terraces open to the elements.
Sunderland, managed by former England international Peter Reid, have only a modest playing squad without the star names of neighbours Middlesbrough and Newcastle United. They are fifth from bottom of the premier league and are likely to face a battle to avoid relegation this season.
The club conceded that staying in the premier league status was "critical" but said that it believed that increased income from the new stadium would offset lost television revenue if the team did go down.
Some 10 percent of the share issue will be made available to club employees and fans rather than institutional investors. The flotation is expected to value the club as a whole at 40-50 million pounds and share dealings will commence on December 24.
Chairman Murray and other leading shareholders, including manager Reid who has a six percent stake, have given undertakings not to dispose of any shares before early 1998.
($ = 0.596 British Pounds)
The British government on Thursday referred a proposed merger of key cross-Channel ferry services provided by Britain's P&amp;O and Sweden's Stena Line to its main competition watchdog for investigation.
Ian Lang, president of the Board of Trade, said he had asked the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC) to study competition effects of the deal -- hatched to help the ferry giants counter the impact on the market of Eurotunnel's Channel Tunnel.
Most Eurotunnel services, including its own passenger and freight shuttles and intercity rail trains run by Eurostar, were suspended following a serious fire last week.
Although the government gave no explanation of its motives for the review, both P&amp;O and share analysts said it seemed to be partly motivated by Eurotunnel's suspension of services.
P&amp;O immediately slammed the move, calling it "totally unnecessary". Its shares dipped on the news, and were down 6-1/2 pence at 589 1/2 pence by 1300 GMT.
P&amp;O chairman Lord Sterling said the two ferry companies' plans had now been "kicked into touch for three months," as the MMC has been given until March 6, 1997 to review the deal.
The two old shipping rivals unveiled plans in October to join forces on three routes across the English Channel, in response to the swift progress made by the tunnel in grabbing a 40 percent market share on the route two years after opening.
The tunnel opted for an aggressive pricing policy as it built up its market presence, cutting deep into the ferry lines' profits as firms led by P&amp;O European Ferries and Stena Sealink responded with parallel price-cuts and expensive extra ships.
The ferry duo's planned merger was designed to rationalise their capacity on the key short-sea section where the Channel is at its narrowest, crossing times are short and competition for millions of passengers and freight units a year is most fierce.
The ferry giants said the link-up would allow them to slash 75 million pounds ($126 million) off a combined fixed cost base of 280 million pounds, as well as building up cash generation.
P&amp;O's Sterling argued on Thursday that Eurotunnel's fire had done nothing to change the economic arguments for a ferry link-up to remove excess capacity.
"Although the tunnel is temporarily out of action due to the unfortunate fire, I cannot see how the MMC reference will change the underlying situation," the statement quoted him as saying.
With Eurotunnel taking 45 percent of the market, P&amp;O added, "it is difficult to see that there is any competition concern that requires investigation."
James Halstead, analyst at Credit Lyonnais Laing in London, said the referral decision was slightly unexpected and disappointing for the market.
"They were effectively given the green light in the summer by the government when the injunction on a merger was removed, and the government saw the impact on business after the Channel Tunnel opened. We thought there would be no problem," he said.
In Sweden, Stena Line's shares dipped 0.80 crowns to 28.50 after the news.
($1=.5956 Pound)
Mention moneylending to most Britons and their instant reaction is "you mean loan-sharks!".
But Britain's established credit companies, which lend to people unable to borrow from the high street banks or credit card companies, say the public image of menacing debt collectors is a far cry from how they conduct their regulated business.
"We are credit collectors. A debt collector is someone who has no relationship with the customer. It's a totally different process," says Eddie Cran, chief executive of the financial services group Cattle's, which runs door-to-door moneylenders Shopacheck.
Such firms are tied closely to the wheeling and dealing of the City of London. Provident Financial, Cattle's and London Scottish Bank are all publicly quoted, profitable firms paying shareholders annual dividends.
People who borrow from them may have had minor civil court judgements against them, be unemployed or simply not want to have bank accounts or credit cards. The firms provide a service others -- except for unregulated outfits -- will not, and while it won't cost a pound of flesh, it is not cheap.
To those used to credit cards or in-store credit the rates may appear outrageously high. But credit companies point out they include major costs such as collection and insurance, are agreed in advance and do not rise if a payment is missed.
So while interest rates may be at all-time lows, these service charges mean the APRs (annualised percentage rate) can exceed 150 percent. To borrow 100 pounds ($167) over 25 weeks from Shopacheck with a five pound weekly repayment costs 25 pounds.
Shopacheck, which started in the 1930s in northeast England, has 2,800 agents. Its average loan is for six months, the average amount 150 pounds and average indebtedness 350 pounds.
STREET COLLECTING
Only a few miles from the City, but a million miles from its hefty salaries and bonuses, Kathy, a self-employed agent for Shopacheck, does her weekly door-to-door collection of debt repayments through the streets of northwest London.
The terraced suburban houses at which she stops are remarkably average. Most have front gardens, some are neatly laid out with blooming rose bushes while others are less well-kept, with tatty patches of litter-strewn grass.
Inside there are the usual consumer trappings of late 1990s British life.
Televisions, video-recorders, washing machines and microwave ovens, even the odd fish tank, are all in evidence, especially when crammed into a small council flat along with children, their toys, pets and piles of ironing.
At each house Kathy, a 37-year-old mother of three, collects sums ranging from two pounds fifty to 20 pounds.
Some customers take loans in the form of vouchers which can be spent only at certain high street shops, while others use the retail service offered by Shopacheck and buy items such as bed linen, beds or barbeques from the firm's own catalogue.
Most of her clients seem to welcome her as a friend, they expect her visits and have the money ready to hand to her. Kathy says that, after eight years, she is a treated as a long-standing family friend or agony aunt by many of them.
Only at one home does the son of the house come to the door and tell Kathy that his mother isn't in. "Fine, can you tell her I'll see her as usual next week," says Kathy.
But getting money back isn't always this easy.
Kathy admits that if a customer threatens her, she passes the problem back to the company, which says it instructs its self-employed agents not to take personal risks.
MONEYLENDERS PLUG GAP IN FINANCIAL SERVICES
"The one thing about credit is that it is easy to give but much harder to get back," says Paul Oliver, a Shopacheck regional manager who has been in the business for 27 years as customer, agent and manager.
He is not alone as a successful businessman who has made use of Britain's long-standing system of moneylending. The managing director of one British bank confided he would not be where he is today had it not been for a money lending firm.
His family could not afford to buy him a suit for an interview. He took a loan, bought the essential attire, got his first job and set himself on the path to greater things.
Oliver says nine out of 10 times business is conducted with the woman of the house and although bad debts are expected, they only reach about four percent a year, which is good going for a business the mainstream lenders won't touch because of the risk.
A recent television documentary showed some moneylenders breaking rules laid down by the Consumer Credit Act. Oliver says he deals harshly with anyone who steps outside the rules.
For Cran firms such as his are plugging a gap in Britain's financial services marketplace and he is keen to correct what he sees as "untrue perceptions" about the business. "What we are actually attempting to do is to deal with customers who cannot get credit through the mainstream lenders," Cran told Reuters.
"It (door-to-door lending) is very high cost and very personal. We have to train people to look after a number of customers," he added. A customer who fails to pay is only pursued through the courts "as a very last measure" and only in "very extreme circumstances" is an outside firm called in.
Cran says Cattle's target market is about five-and-a-half million people, around two million of whom need the discipline of an agent calling to collect every week.
But the stigma involved means Cattle's also offers Welcome, a loans service for people who have bank accounts and pay by direct debit. This "requires a very high rejection rate and an in-depth granting procedure", Cran says.
SHAREHOLDERS REAP THE DIVIDENDS
For Cattle's and its competitors credit is a lucrative business. In September it reported increased pre-tax profits for the first six months of the year of nearly 15.0 million pounds. In 1995 its shareholders received a total dividend of 6.9 pence.
In August Provident Financial, the sector's biggest player, reported first half pre-tax profits of 47.5 million pounds. It said it had seen continued growth in home collected credit and was confident of a "good result" for the year as a whole.
But for customers, things might not be so rosy. While most manage to pay back their loans, some do not. Kathy soon spots trouble. "You can see they are struggling if they start having to scrabble around for pennies," she says. ($1=.5990 Pound)
British venture capital firm 3i Group Plc on Thursday reported a rise in first half net asset value (NAV) per share and revenue profits but said it had been held back by continental Europe and a strong pound.
3i's NAV for the period rose to 454 pence per share, from 426 pence in the first half last year, while profit before tax rose to 62.9 million pounds ($106 million) from 54.3 million.
"Its a pretty healthy increase. Its held back a bit by continental Europe...the markets have not been that good and there has also been the appreciation of sterling," Ewen Macpherson, 3i's chief executive said in an interview.
Macpherson said a better indication of the group's performance was its British portfolio which had performed "extremely well", reflected in an 18 percent growth in revenue.
There were still plenty of opportunities available, he said, with the sort of companies that 3i invested in doing very well.
There had also been an improvement in general business confidence in Britain, which had improved for the fourth consecutive quarter, according to 3i's latest "Enterprise Barometer" survey.
Of 327 million pounds invested by 3i during the period, 284 million was in Britain.
Macpherson said the prospect of a general election in Britain by May 1997, had resulted in a number of investment opportunities for 3i as some company founders or management teams decided to sell their corporate holdings while the tax regime remained clear.
While the European performance had an impact on the NAV figure, the investment opportunities for 3i on the continent remained good, Macpherson said. Current pricing levels for small and medium-sized European companies in which the group invests were "very attractive".
During the first half of the year, realisation of investments continued at an encouraging rate, with sales worth 122 million pounds in Britain and some 36 million pounds in continental Europe.
Macpherson said the group had "significant plans to expand in Europe" and this was reflected in its decision to open an office in the German city of Duesseldorf in January.
This regionalisation would also involve opening offices in three other German cities -- Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart -- and the group also plans to extend its presence into the south of France.
The group said it wanted to open its first office in Southeast Asia, in Singapore, early in 1997.
Macpherson said Asia was "an exciting part of the world" for investment capital and Singapore had been chosen as it was a good communication centre from which other parts of the region could be covered.
He said the office would look at opportunities in Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia but not in China. ($1=.5956 Pound)
Royal Bank of Scotland is constantly reviewing its options to expand its distribution channels, especially in the south east of England, its chief executive George Mathewson said on Thursday.
"It's right to assume we've been talking to a lot of people," Mathewson told Reuters in an interview. "People (who are looking for a tie-up) assume they should talk to us because of our lack of penetration in the south east. All I can say is that we are reviewing all the options."  
He was speaking after the bank announced a 15 percent rise in pretax profits to 695 million stg, towards the higher end of market expectations, which saw Royal Bank shares rise 8p to 530p.
Earlier this year, Royal Bank's arch-rival Bank of Scotland announced a banking joint venture with retailer Sainsburys and other banks are making moves in the same direction.
It has long been assumed that Royal Bank would boost its distribution by buying an English building society and Mathewson again refused to rule out this possibility.  
"That remains a possibility," he said. "Assuming that a building society became available and that the price was not ridiculous."
Mathewson said any such purchase would have to take into account shareholder value and business criteria like the strength of the brand name.
Some analysts have doubted that Royal Bank's capital position would allow a major purchase but Mathewson dismissed such doubts.  
Noting that its capital ratios had strengthened over the past year (tier one to 6.8 pcercent from 6.3 and total to 11.0 from 10.3), Mathewson said Royal bank would have no trouble raising money if necessary.
"Whatever we have done with our money has been open to market scrutiny -- unlike some other companies," Mathewson said. "We didn't just pay it down the drain. If we need money, we will make a case and we will get it."
The Royal Bank results included a 22 percent gain for the UK banking operations and a 57 percent rise for its New England banking unit Citizens.  
But difficult trading conditions at its insurance unit Direct Line saw profits there collapse by 86 million stg to just 26 million.
Mathewson said he was not really disappointed by the Direct Line result -- "But I'd prefer it (profit) to be bigger, don't get me wrong" -- saying that it stemmed from the higher rate of claims and market pressure against higher prices.
"The pressure in the market means we couldn't put up prices to compensate but we are making an awful lot more than any of our competitors," he said.
Mathewson said the outlook was positive for Direct Line.
"But I'm not jumping to any conclusions. Prices are beginning to move (higher), many companies are losing substantial amounts of money and history tells me that can't continue for very long."
In the UK bank, cost to income ratio dipped to 59.2 percent from 63.2 percent as the effects of the bank's "Operation Columbus" restructuring continue to come through. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8864.
Stagecoach Plc, the bus to rail operator which has seen its shareprice double in under a year, said on Thursday it expected ongoing progress in dividend growth after reporting record profits of 47 million stg.
Keith Cochrane, finance director, told Reuters "We expect ongoing progress in our second half dividend," even after raising the interim payout by 43 percent to three pence. But he pointed out that the first dividend reflected the 15 million stg profit from the sale of its stake in Strathclyde Buses.
UK investment capital group 3i Group Plc said on Thursday the increase in its first half net asset value (NAV) per share was healthy but had been partly held back by continental Europe and a strong pound.
"Its a pretty healthy increase. Its held back a bit by continental Europe...the markets have not been that good and there has also been the appreciation of sterling," Ewen Macpherson, 3i's chief executive told Reuters.
3i's NAV for the period rose to 454 pence per share, from 426 pence for the same period the previous year.  
Macpherson said a better indication of the group's performance was its UK portfolio which had performed "extremely well", reflected in an 18 percent growth in revenue.
He said there were still plenty of opportunities available, with the sort of companies that 3i invested in doing very well. There had also been an improvement in general business confidence in the UK, which had improved for the fourth consecutive quarter according to 3i's latest survey.
"The confidence in the businesses underlying our portfolio has been so positive," he said. Of 327.3 million stg invested by 3i during the period, 284.2 million stg was in the UK.  
Macpherson said the prospect of a general election in the UK, which must be held by May 1997, had resulted in a number of investment opportunities for 3i as some company founders or management teams decided to sell their holdings in a firm while there was no doubt about the tax implications.
While the European performance had an impact on the NAV figure, the investment opportunities for 3i on the continent remained good, Macpherson said, adding that current pricing levels for the small and medium-sized European companies in which the group invests were "very attractive".  
During the first half of the year, 3i said, realisations on investments had continued "at an encouraging rate". It realised investments of 122.2 million stg in the UK and 35.9 million stg in continental Europe.
Macpherson said the group had "significant plans to expand in Europe" and this was reflected in its decision to open an office in Dusseldorf, Germany in January. This regionalisation would involve opening offices in Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart.
And the group was also planning to extend its presence into the south of France, he added.  
The group also announced it would open its first office in South East Asia, in Singapore, early in 1997.
Macpherson said the area was "an exciting part of the world" for investment capital and Singapore had been chosen as it was a good communication centre from which other parts of the region could be covered.
He said the office would start small, with a staff of three, and would have a maximum of "half-a-dozen" people for the first year or so and would look at opportunities in Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia but not in China.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7719
An inquiry into Australia's financial system has left open the option of mergers among Australia's big banks and takeovers of local banks by foreign banks in an interim discussion paper released on Wednesday.
The inquiry, established by the government and headed by prominent businessman Stan Wallis, outlined various options for reform and was careful not to state its own preferences.
But it said the key aim of any reforms should be increasing the efficiency of Australia's banks to compete globally and that new technology would transform the sector. Big banks such as the National Australia Bank Ltd have used the same reasoning lobbying for relaxed merger rules.
The banks have said big bank mergers are necessary to compete globally and new technology such as the Internet and global competition meant such mergers would not cut competition.
Policy set by the former Labor government has stopped mergers or foreign takeovers of Australia's four largest banks and its two largest insurance and superannuation groups.
The current conservative coalition government has said this so-called "six pillars" policy will remain in place until it has considered the Wallis inquiry's recommendations, due to be delivered by the end of March 1997.
"The Inquiry sees as its key goal the identification of means to increase the efficiency of the Australian financial system, without compromising its safety and peformance," the paper said. Increased efficiency was needed to complete globally, to obtain the benefits of new technology and to increase investment returns, the paper said. It asked if competition and innovation could be stimulated by widening access to traditional banking activities through:
* "Allowing direct non-bank access to the payments settlement system"
* Better accomodating financial conglomerates
* Allowing an increased range of institutions to provide a wider array of financial services, or
* relaxing some of the ownership restrictions on financial institutuions ?"
The inquiry said it was also wanted any reforms to increase competition and asked in that context "whether there are any public policy grounds for restrictions on foreign acquisitions in the banking or insurance industries?"
In discussing the details of how bank mergers might be approved, the inquiry said there was widespread consensus that banks should be subject to the same competition rules as other industries. Currently any bank merger must be approved by the government through the Treasurer and by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC). This dual approval process does not apply in other industries.  
"In undertaking its assessment, the Inquiry notes its preference...for all sectors of the economy to be subject to a uniform set of competitionpolicy laws unless there is something sepcial which justifies different treatment," the paper said.
The Inquiry said it would consider the following options for merger approvals, including;
* keeping the current system of dual approval
* having the Treasurer accept the ACCC's decision, or * narrowing powers over mergers in banking and insurance law It said there would be no need for a 'six pillars' policy if the Treasurers powers were removed or if he agreed not to excercise them. "There was almost unanimous support that the 'six pillars' policy should be abolished," the paper said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
An official inquiry into Australia's financial system said on Thursday it would look at recommending a relaxation of rules that currently stop big bank mergers and local bank takeovers by foreign banks.
The inquiry, which was established by the conservative government after its March election, outlined various options for reform in a wide-ranging discussion paper and was careful not to state its own preferences.
But it noted majority industry support for abolishing the rules stopping mergers and foreign bank takeovers and said it preferred an anti-monopolies system which treated the banking sector the same way as every other sector.
Until now the government has had the final say on bank mergers, rather than just the anti-monopolies watchdog.
Analysts said the tone of the discussion paper reinforced widespread expectations that the inquiry's final report would recommend allowing bank mergers and new foreign investment.
"It hasn't changed perceptions that ultimately the inquiry will make recommendations that allow the ACCC (Australian Competition and Consumer Commission) to permit bank mergers which haven't been permitted before," said ABN AMRO Hoare Govett Banking analyst Michael Pulman.
Shares in the big banks seen vulnerable to takeover have rallied since the beginning of the year in expectation that a conservative Australian government would allow the mergers.
Those seen as possible takeover targets include the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd and Westpac Banking Corp Ltd.
The National Australia Bank Ltd, Australia's largest and most profitable bank, is seen as the main predator.
A policy set by the former Labor government and known as the "six pillars" policy has stopped mergers or foreign takeovers of Australia's four largest banks and its two largest insurance and superannuation groups.
The current conservative Liberal-National coalition government has said this policy would remain in place until it has considered the Wallis inquiry's recommendations, due to be delivered by the end of March 1997.
The inquiry, headed by prominent businessman Stan Wallis, said in its 415-page paper that any reforms should increase the efficiency of Australia's banks to compete globally.
It also said new technology would transform the sector.
Big banks such as the National Australia Bank have used the same reasoning when lobbying for relaxed merger rules.
These banks have said big bank mergers are necessary to compete globally and new technology such as the Internet and global competition meant such mergers would not cut competition.
"The inquiry sees as its key goal the identification of means to increase the efficiency of the Australian financial system, without compromising its safety and peformance," the paper said.
Increased efficiency was needed to compete globally, to obtain the benefits of new technology and to increase investment returns, the paper said.
It said it would consider, "better accomodating financial conglomerates" and "relaxing some of the ownership restrictions on financial institutuions?"
The inquiry said it also wanted any reforms to increase competition and asked in that context "whether there are any public policy grounds for restrictions on foreign acquisitions in the banking or insurance industries?"
An official inquiry into Australia's financial system said on Thursday it would look at recommending a relaxation of rules that currently stop big bank mergers and takeovers by foreign banks.
The inquiry, which was established by the conservative government after its March election, outlined various options for reform in a wide-ranging discussion paper and was careful not to state its own preferences.  
But it noted majority industry support for abolishing the rules stopping mergers and foreign bank takeovers and said it preferred an anti-monopolies system which treated the banking sector the same way as every other sector.
Until now the government has had the final say on bank mergers, rather than just the anti-monopolies watchdog.
Analysts said the tone of the discussion paper reinforced widespread expectations that the inquiry's final report would recommend allowing bank mergers and new foreign investment.  
"It hasn't changed perceptions that ultimately the inquiry will make recommendations that allow the ACCC (Australian Competition and Consumer Commission) to permit bank mergers which haven't been permitted before," said ABN AMRO Hoare Govett Banking analyst Michael Pulman.
Shares in the big banks seen vulnerable to takeover have rallied since the beginning of the year in expectation that a conservative government would allow the mergers.
Possible takeover targets include the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd and Westpac Banking Corp.  
The National Australia Bank Ltd, Australia's largest and most profitable bank, is seen as the main predator.
A policy set by the former Labor government and known as the 'six pillars' policy has stopped mergers or foreign takeovers of Australia's four largest banks and its two largest insurance and superannuation groups.
The conservative coalition government has said this policy would remain in place until it has considered the Wallis inquiry's recommendations, due to be delivered by the end of March 1997.  
The inquiry, headed by prominent businessman Stan Wallis, said in its 415 page paper any reforms should increase the efficiency of Australia's banks to compete globally.
It also said new technology would transform the sector.
Big banks such as the National Australia Bank have used the same reasoning when lobbying for relaxed merger rules.
These banks have said big bank mergers are necessary to compete globally and new technology such as the Internet and global competition meant such mergers would not cut competition.  
"The Inquiry sees as its key goal the identification of means to increase the efficiency of the Australian financial system, without compromising its safety and peformance," the paper said.
Increased efficiency was needed to complete globally, to obtain the benefits of new technology and to increase investment returns, the paper said.
It said it would consider, "better accommodating financial conglomerates," and, "relaxing some of the ownership restrictions on financial institutuions".  
The inquiry said it was also wanted any reforms to increase competition and asked in that context "whether there are any public policy grounds for restrictions on foreign acquisitions in the banking or insurance industries?"
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
Canadian gold mining giant Placer Dome Inc on Thursday announced plans to expand its presence in the Asia-Pacific region through takeover offers worth a total of US$600 million for two Australian-listed gold miners.
Placer Dome launched takeover offers for Papua New Guinea (PNG) miner Highlands Gold Ltd and a mop-up offer for its Australian offshoot Placer Pacific Ltd.
If Placer Dome succeeds with both bids it will have control of PNG's biggest gold mine. PNG's Porgera mine is expected to produce over 940,000 ounces of gold in calendar 1996.
"It (the takeover) recognises the prospectivity that we see of the Asia-Pacific region and our desire to take full advantage of any opportunities that exist here," said Placer Dome's chief executive officer John Willson.
However, there were no plans to acquire more assets in the Asia-Pacific region, he said. However, Placer Pacific has stepped up its exploration activity in Asia in recent years with programmes in China, Indonesia and the Philippines.
The takeover bids were well received by investors on the Australian share market, with both Highlands and Placer Pacific shares soaring in active trade on the bid announcements, which were made before Thursday's market open.
However, the bids were not so welcomed by Highlands, which said Placer Dome's offer of 75 cents (US$0.61) for each Highlands shares was inadequate. However, Placer Pacific was more coy, it advised shareholders to take no action on the bid.
The Sydney-based Placer Pacific was partly floated in 1986 by its parent, which in turn now plans to buy-out the rest of the 24.6 percent it does not own through a share swap of one Placer Dome share for every 15 Placer Pacific shares.
Placer Dome, a Vancouver-based miner and one of the world's top three gold producers, plans to finance its A$425 million Highlands purchase through the issue of prefered shares.
"When we are done with this acquisition assuming it goes ahead, we will have debt of about US$1.0 billion and equity of US$1.7 billion," Willson said
"We will then refinance the Highlands gold purchase through a preferred share issue and we look at asset sales to bring our equity close to US$2.0 billion and with debt below $1.0 billion, we will be well within our range on a debt-to-equity basis."
Highlands has stakes in two potentially large mining projects in PNG. The Nena/Frieda River copper/gold project and the Ramu nickel-cobalt deposit, both projects are estimated to cost a total of US$1.5 billion to develop.
In regards to Highlands non-gold assets, Willson said: "We don't know much about them or what we are going to do with them, to develop them, sell them, or swap them."
Australian gold analysts said the Canadian gold miner was likely to succeed with its two bids. "I think they will walk it in," said David Kauler, gold mining analyst at ANZ Securities.
Analysts said the offers are probably opportunistic, given that Placer Pacific and Highlands share prices were both earlier this year above Placer Dome's offer prices. But both have fallen with the gold price, which is currently around 2-1/2 year lows.
Highlands shares closed 17 cents or 29 percent higher at 75 cents, Placer Dome has amassed a 33 percent stake in Highlands over the past two days. Placer Pacific shares closed 42 cents or 29.37 percent higher at A$1.85 with 5.5 million shares traded.
(A$1=US$0.80)
Canadian gold giant Placer Dome Inc's takeover bids for its Australian offshoot Placer Pacific Ltd and Papua New Guinea gold miner Highlands Gold Ltd are likely to be successful, analysts said on Thursday. A takeover of the two miners would give Placer Dome control of the big Porgera gold mine in Papua New Guinea (PNG).
"I think they will walk it in," said David Kauler, gold mining analyst at ANZ Securities.
Placer Dome had amassed a 33 percent stake in Highlands in the 24 hours before launching a 75 cents a share bid.  
The Vancouver-based miner is offering one of its shares for every 15 Placer Pacific shares. Placer Dome said its offer for Highlands represented a 36 percent premium to the price of the the shares on November 26. The offer for the 24.6 percent Placer Dome does not own in Placer Pacific represents aa 50 percent premium on the November 26 price, the Canadian miner said.
The shares of both Placer Pacific and Highlands soared after Placer Dome unveiled its offers before the market opening.
At 12.50 p.m. (0150 GMT) Placer shares were 47 cents or 32.87 percent higher at A$1.90 while Highlands shares were 16 cents or 27.59 percent higher at 74 cents.  
Australian gold analysts said they did not expect Placer Dome to raise its bid prices, with both Placer Pacific and Highlands directors likely to recommend shareholders to accept the offers in the absence of any higher bids.
"At the moment, the advice would be not to sell," Highlands company secretary Phillip West told Reuters. "But the directors are considering the offer and are expected to make a statement later today," West said.
Analysts said the speed at which Placer Dome picked up a third of Highlands indicated there were plenty of sellers of the stock at these levels.  
Highlands has been in play since MIM Holdings Ltd put its 65 percent stake up for sale at 65 cents a share in April, but underwriter to the offer ANZ Securities, was left with 40 percent of Highlands, as investors neglected the offer.
"When you have someone offering 75 cents and not too long ago nobody was buying at 65 (cents) then its no wonder they are queuing up to sell," said Keith Goode at Bell Securities.
Analysts said Highlands needed a partner to help develop the Nena/Frieda River copper/gold project and the Ramu nickel-cobalt deposit, both in PNG. The two projects are estimated to cost US$1.5 billion to develop.  
"Highlands was really under pressure as its needed around A$500-A$600 million to finance its share of the Frieda and Ramu projects and that is pretty difficult for a company that is capitalised at A$350 million," ANZ's Kauler said.
Analysts said the offers are probably opportunistic, given that Placer Pacific and Highlands share prices were both earlier this year above Placer Dome's offer prices. But both have fallen with the gold price, which is currently around 2-1/2 year lows.
"It is opportune, with the gold price falling, but neither Placer (Pacific) or Highlands share prices have been going anywhere for most of this year," Kauler said.  
Gold analysts said Placer Dome was unlikely to mop up the remaining stake in Kidston Gold Mines Ltd, which is currently 75 percent owned by Placer Pacific.
"I don't expect there to be bid for Kidston, I think they will let that run its course," said one Sydney gold analyst.
The takeover bids for the Porgera partners, also boosted Goldfields Ltd share price, which owns 25 percent of the PNG mine and most of the gold sector despite a weaker gold price, which is currently trading at US$373/50 an ounce.
At 1.35 p.m. (0235 GMT), Goldfields shares were 24 cents or 9.76 percent higher at A$2.70. --Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Britain's Ladbroke Group. and the U.S. Hilton Hotels Corp (HHC) on Thursday announced a worldwide alliance that will reunite the famous Hilton hotel brand after 32 years of separation.
HHC owns the Hilton name in the United States while Ladbroke holds the rights everywhere else through its Hilton International (HIC) subsidiary.
The two companies have signed an outline agreement to reunite the brand, separated in 1964 when HIC was spun off from the American operation. Ladbroke acquired HIC in 1987.
In the alliance grouping 400 hotels in 49 countries, HHC and HIC intend to cooperate from next year on sales and marketing, loyalty programmes and hotel development.
Ladbroke also announced first half pre-tax profits of 72.8 million pounds ($113 million) before exceptional items, a 29 percent increase on last year and above analysts' forecasts.
Interim dividend was unchanged at 2.4 pence per share.
Ladbroke shares added 7.5p to a 1996 high of 215p in early trade before slipping slightly to 213p.
"This deal makes good sense to our customers, our employees and our shareholders," Ladbroke Chief Executive Peter George said in a statement.
"Through this alliance, our two companies intend to lead the hotel and gaming markets worlwide," he added.
The companies plan to finalise the agreement as soon as possible in order for it to become effective by early 1997.
HHC intends to acquire a five percent stake in Ladbroke once the final agreement has been signed. George will join the HHC board while Stephen Bollenbach, his opposite number at HHC, will become a director of Ladbroke.
The two men said that the deal would could be worth several tens of millions of dollars when cost savings and extra sales were combined.
"It seems all upside, there's hard to see a downside," said George. He added the deal had been under negotiation since Bollenbach became HHC chief executive in February and was agreed only on Wednesday night.
It provides for the formation of a jointly owned company to market and develop the Hilton brand around the world.
HHC's guest loyalty programme, which has some five million members, will be extended worldwide. The companies will also participate in each other's future hotels development.
Ladbroke will also have the chance to become a partner in some of HHC's gaming developments in the United States.
Ladbroke said operating profits from HIC grew strongly to 70 million pounds in the first half while those from its betting and gaming division climbed 17 percent to 43.6 million pounds.
($1=.6421 Pound)
Hong Kong shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa was rated by a poll on Thursday as the best man to deal with China as a Beijing-controlled committee grilled candidates vying to run the territory when Britain pulls out in 215 days.
Britain hands its colony back to Chinese sovereignty at the stroke of midnight next June 30, and the 400-strong Selection Committee is in the midst of a three-day vetting of Tung and two rivals bidding to succeed colonial Governor Chris Patten.
The winner will be announced on December 11.
The opinion poll, conducted among 967 people by the Chinese University of Hong Kong on Monday and Tuesday, showed Tung to be the favourite and indicated 73 percent of the respondents also believe Tung is the candidate who can communicate best with the Chinese government in Beijing.
Only 7.2 percent thought his rival, former chief judge Ti Liang Yang could commmunicate well with Beijing, while another candidate, businessman Peter Woo, scored only two percent.
Yang, however, was seen as being more impartial and as the man most ready to voice his opinion to China, the poll showed.
Asked who was most likely to speak out against Beijing, 31 percent said Yang, 20 percent Tung and 4.8 percent Woo.
After the first day's questioning of the candidates by the committee on Wednesday, Tung emerged as a better communicator than he has appeared on previous occasions, analysts said.
He produced a clearly focused vision for Hong Kong with the main thrust on putting business and economic interests first.
During the quizzing by committee members representing Hong Kong's business community, Tung blasted the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest, urging it to drop its anti-China stance and to play a positive role in the transition for the sake of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people.
"At present they are objecting to anything Chinese," Tung said. "This is not good in the long term or for the interests of Hong Kong," he said. "They should not think in this way."
The Democrats are boycotting the Selection Committee, condemning its mission to pick Hong Kong's post-colonial leader as undemocratic and its activity to assemble a new provisional body to supplant the present elected legislature as a violation of handover pledges made by China.
Tung, delivering his policy platform in a speech to the body, outlined a new era in which he would pack his advisory cabinet with specialists and include legislators -- now excluded from the equivalent colonial body.
He also said he would like to retain all the senior local officials of the civil service in sign that he might keep on the present and highly regarded Chief Secretary Anson Chan.
Among his policy initiatives, Tung listed the revival of manufacturing industries, especially with a high-tech focus.
In recent years manufacturing has shifted out of Hong Kong to cheaper locations in mainland China, and Hong Kong has become a service-based economy.
Tung also said he wanted to boost the role of provident funds and social security. He said he would press for faster approval of construction plans, the sale of public housing to tenants at affordable prices, the release of more government land for housing, and a reduction of red tape.
He said he had a sense of mission to work for Hong Kong's good. "My father C.Y. Tung had always taught me to do meaningful things and to be proud of being a Chinese," he said. "It is this sense of mission that drives me."
Markets across Eastern Europe
remained mired in an autumn slump this week, with analysts
saying they see little impetus on the horizon to break the
bearish trend.
Stock Exchanges in Warsaw, Prague, Bratislava, Bucharest,
Zagreb and Ljubljana all lost ground on the week, while
Budapest bucked the trend, rising slightly though it appeared
to lose steam by week's end.
PRAGUE
Not even a strong showing by the centre-right governing
coalition in Senate elections at the weekend could break the
Prague Stock Exchange out of its current slump, as the PX50
index dipped 0.8 points on the week to close Thursday at 509.3.
Analysts said that while the coalition of Prime Minister
Vaclav Klaus may feel heartened by the showing which gave him a
majority to the Czech upper house, which will have little
power, investors are still put off by poor market regulation.
"I'm a little sceptical about the possibility that the
Senate will help bring changes to the market," said Pavel
Sobisek of Zivnostenska Banka.
"I think there will be a lot of pressure from market
participants on the government to do something...but I have not
seen any signs of a change in attitude of the coalition with
respect to this topic."
Investors have long complained that market regualtion and
legislation in the Czech Republic is weak, providing little
protection for minority shareholders.
WARSAW
The Warsaw Stock Exchange stayed virtually flat this week
and analysts were divided over the market's direction.
Some said the bourse could extend its three-week horizontal
trend as no fresh signals were in sight. "We are still in a
horizontal trend and...I see no factors which could help create
a clear direction for the market," said Mateusz Andrzejewski,
an analyst at Pekao SA brokerage.
But others saw the generally positive economic climate as
an impulse strong enough that it could help the bourse climb
above 14,000 points next week.
Analysts said a senior central bank official's comment on
Tuesday on a possible rise in interest rates next year was
bringing some uncertainty to the bourse but was unlikely to
signficantly hurt prices.
BUDAPEST
Hungarian shares, triggered by last Thursday's government
decision to hike energy prices, started off the weekend
strongly, but ran out of steam by mid-week.
Oil and gas company MOL led the charge, but dealers said
its weakening on Thursday could be a harbinger for the bourse.
"MOL turned around today (on Thursday), that is a warning
sign," said New York Broker's Kalman Schuszter. "Sellers are
stronger now." The BUX index closed on Thursday at 3,674.61, up
3.1 percent from Monday's open.
BRATISLAVA
Slovak share prices continued their freefall over the
course of the week, in a rampant bear market that has seen the
Bratislava Stock Exchange lose about 25 percent since the end
of August.
The 12-share SAX index fell 12.49 points on the week to
close at 161.82 on Thursday.
Dealers said the silver lining to the bourse's woes may be
that prices are becoming so cheap, foreign investors will soon
be lured back.
BUCHAREST
Scant demand kept volumes modest at both weekly sessions in
Bucharest, with turnover low and most prices edging down or
staying flat.
The unofficial VAB index inched down from the previous
session by 1.1 percent to 294.2 points, while the BIG index
eased 1.07 percent to 293.41.
Fertiliser maker Azomures SA dominated trading,
while newcomer, an oilfield equipment maker, put on
a poor show.
ZAGREB
Croatian stocks were mostly lower in dwindling trade and
analysts said they could see no end to the bearish period as
big buyers continue to shy away from the market because of
political developments.
Croatia has been shaken by a wave of strikes, and last week
Zagreb saw its biggest protest in years.
LJUBLJANA
Political concerns were also apparent in Ljubljana this
week, with investors waiting for a new prime minister to be
named, probably in the second half of December.
"The market will be uneasy until it is clear who will form
the new government," one trader said. The SBI index fell 6,7
points from MOnday's open to close on Thursday at 1,145.5.
Although the Liberal Democrats of current Prime Minister
Janez Drnovsek were the strongest single party in the November
general election, winning 25 out of 90 parliamentary seats,
they are facing a loose alliance of rightist "Spring" parties,
who got 45 seats.
		  CLOSE     WEEK'S CHANGE    1996/HIGH    1996/LOW
		 NOV 28	NET     PCT
 CESI	  1,391.77   - 11.12  -0.79   1,544.70     959.24
 PRAGUE	  509.3	-0.8   -0.16     582.0	425.9
 WARSAW     13,696.7     -26.4   -0.2   15,078.7    7,725.2
 BUDAPEST    3,674.61   +110.66  +3.1    3,728.58   1,557.91
 BRATISLAVA    161.82    -12.49  -7.17     226.34     150.4
 VAB-Index     294.2	-4.83  -1.6	879.29     285.3
 BIG-Index     293.41     -4.96  -1.6	820.9	284.29
 LJUBLJANA   1,145.5	-6.7   -0.6    1,589.18     891.93
All-time highs: CESI 1,544.70 (Sept 2/1996); WIG 20,760.3
(March 8, 1994); SBI 1,598.02 (June 28/1994); PX50 1,002.4
(April 7/1994); BUX 3,728.58 (Oct 17/1996); SAX 402.3
(Feb/1994). ($=3,570 lei)
The British arm of accountancy firm Coopers &amp; Lybrand, auditors for failed British bank Barings, said on Friday it had issued third party proceedings against nine former directors and employees of the bank.
"Despite the fact that we are not responsible for the collapse of Barings, we face a substantial claim. We are perceived to have deep pockets which are available to those who have lost money while those who were really responsible for the collapse of Barings escape," Coopers said in a statement.
"We may also take additional third party proceedings against other members of Barings management in due course," it added.
Coopers &amp; Lybrand's British firm was auditor for Barings Plc, the parent company. Barings was rescued by Dutch financial giant ING Groep after it collapsed in February 1995 under losses of around $1.4 billion run up by the unauthorised derivatives trades of Singapore-based Nick Leeson.
Leeson is currently serving a six-and-a-half year jail sentence in Singapore for his part in the bank's downfall.
Ernst &amp; Young, administrators to the bank, later issued claims of negligence in audits against accountants Coopers &amp; Lybrand in London and Singapore and Deloitte &amp; Touche in Singapore.
Some commentators estimate the total amount of these writs, which have not been specified, to be around 1.0 billion pounds ($1.68 billion). A Coopers &amp; Lybrand official in London said no amount had been specified on the writ issued against it.
A spokesman at Ernst &amp; Young told Reuters the firm was aware of the third party writs issued by Coopers but said that it was "inappropriate to comment at this stage."
The Coopers &amp; Lybrand official said the third party writs against the nine former Barings directors and employees had not yet been served, adding it had four months in which to do so.
The firm said in a statement that the writs had been issued in the Chancery Division of the High Court against former Baring Investment Bank head Peter Norris and former deputy chairman Andrew Tuckey as well as Ron Baker, Mary Walz, Ian Hopkins, Anthony Gamby, Geoffrey Broadhurst, James Bax and Simon Jones.
Baker's lawyer, Lindsay Hill of law firm Fox Williams, told Reuters he was surprised Coopers &amp; Lybrand had taken the action against Baker.
"I am surprised that Coopers &amp; Lybrand should have taken this sort of action against Mr. Baker. I think the way events have unfolded before the SFA (Securities and Futures Authority) have demonstrated that he has not been in breach of any of his obligations or duties as a director," Hill said.
He said he did not expect Coopers &amp; Lybrand to be successful in any claim against Baker and suggested that issuing the writs had been "a tactical move intended to divert attention away from the main action."
Earlier this month Baker was cleared of most misconduct charges brought by the SFA, a British financial markets watchdog, after a hearing by an independent tribunal.
Norris, who along with Broadhurst was banned from working in the City of London by the SFA in May, could not be contacted by Reuters.
Tuckey, who was deputy chairman of Barings, was not disciplined by the SFA. In March the SFA said it "found no evidence indicating that the insolvency of the group" could be attributed to his actions.
But he had to assure the SFA he would not seek any position in an investment house which would require his registration by the SFA as a senior executive officer or as a director unless his duties were limited to giving corporate finance advice.
Gamby was reprimanded by the SFA in August. He had his registration as a director suspended for a year and was required to pay 5,000 pounds towards costs.
SFA proceedings against Walz, Hopkins and Bax have yet to be concluded, while Jones was not regulated by the watchdog. ($1=.5953 Pound)
Brewer to leisure group Bass Plc is expected to report a strong improvement in full-year earnings on Wednesday, driven by growth at Holiday Inns and its chain of Harvester restaurants.
"The company will benefit from a full year on its acquisition of Harvester, a full year of sales in Caffrey's and Hoopers Hooch and a full year from Robinsons'," said BZW analyst Charles Winston. Bass bought the Harvester chain of 78 pubs for 165 million stg from Forte in July.  
Analysts forecasts for pre-tax profits range from 665 to 675 million stg, up from 599.1 million stg in 1995. A dividend of 24.7p is anticipated. The tight profits range bears testimony to the full and detailed trading statement the company announced in September, covering the first 48 weeks of the year.
Chairman Sir Ian Prosser said at the time revenue per available room in the US franchised hotels increased by six percent. Analysts expect revenue per available room to show an increase of 8.0 percent in Europe at the full year.  
"The growth will come from hotels, up 18 percent and pubs up 16 percent," said Goldman Sachs analyst Colin Davies.
Analysts expect profits from Holiday Inns to come in at about 193 million stg up from 164 million a year ago. The pubs division, which includes Harvester, is anticipated to show trading profits of some 284 million up from 240 million.
However, trading profit from the leisure division is expected to be down about 10 million at 65 million because of the impact of the national lottery and scratch cards on admissions at Gala, Bass owned traditional bingo clubs.  
But betting shops Coral, also part of the company's leisure division, are likely to see the benefit of government changes in June that allowed betting shop operators to have up to two 10 pound all-cash AWPs on the premises.
The company's brewing business should report a near 10 million stg increase in operating profit to 155 million, helped along by strong sales in the markets leading alcopop Hoopers Hooch and creamy ale Caffrey's.
Profits from the soft drinks division, which includes Britvic, should also be slightly higher -- some analysts predict by as much as 10 million up at 56 million -- as a result of the acquisition of Robinsons' soft drinks business.
Bass shares closed 11p down at 783-1/2p on Friday as talk surfaced that its proposed 200 million stg acquisition of Carlsberg-Tetley would only be allowed through with tough conditions imposed by government.
-- London Newsroom +44 71 542 6437
Drinks, food and retail group Grand Metropolitan Plc will post a strong rise in its underlying business performance in its full-year results on Thursday driven by its North American foods business Pillsbury, but it also stands to take a huge 522 million stg loss on disposals.
"The growth will really come through from Pillsbury, particularly on dough and pizza," said Goldman Sachs analyst Colin Davies. Analysts forecasts for pretax profits range from 948 to 999.0 million stg, before the loss on disposals.  
GrandMet posted pre-tax profits of 920 million stg last year. Dividend forecasts are centred on 15.8p, up from 14.9p.
The loss on disposals is made up of 265 million stg of goodwill written off on the sale of its optician business Pearle, a 36 million stg hit on the disposal of William Hill and Mecca to leisure group Brent Walker and a 14 million stg loss on the disposal of its Erasco food business in Germany, to the Campbell Soup Company.
At the time of the Erasco sale GrandMet said it would take a further 207 million stg of goodwill written off on the sale of a batch of European foods businesses.  
The sell-off is designed to enable GrandMet to focus in Europe on its major international brands - Pillsbury,  Green Giant, Haagen-Dazs and Old El Paso.
Aside from the exceptional charges analysts see a 26 percent profit improvement from GrandMet's food business to an estimated 456 million stg.
Pillsbury has achieved prices rises and gained market share since the first half, GrandMet said in September.  
Analysts expect Pillsbury to contribute about 274 million stg of the estimated 456 million while Pet, producer of Old El Paso and Italian foods and soups acquired in January 1995 for some 2.0 billion stg, is expected to chip in about 160 million.
Sector analysts also anticipate a near 15 million stg improvement in profits to 470 million from the company's spirits arm International Distillers and Vintners (IDV). "We expect GrandMet's drinks business to do better than either Allied Domecq or Guinness," said Merrill Lynch, analyst Mark Puleikis.  
"They have been a lot more proactive and aggressive in their advertising expenditure over the last two years and they are more exposed to the vodka category which is standing them in good stead," he said.
The Toronto Stock Exchange closed mixed in heavy trading on Friday, but its key index managed to stay above to the 6000 point mark.
The TSE 300 Composite Index closed 1.98 points lower at 6016.67, after falling 6000 points earlier.
On the broader market, advancing stocks outnumbered declining ones 558 to 398. Another 318 traded unchanged.
"These markets are holding up really well," said RBC Dominion Securities private client strategist Dunnery Best. "The fact that Canada held on to big gains is very powerful."
The TSE 300 Index gained about 90 points this week.
Trading volume was 96.7 million shares worth C$1.58 billion (US$1.17 billion).
The activity was surprisingly heavy since analysts had expected trading to fall off after the New York Stock Exchange closed early for the U.S. Thanksgiving long weekend.
Best expected further gains for the TSE as the year end approaches and Canadians think about buying mutual funds for their registered retirement savings plans.
Ten of Toronto's 14 sub-indices ended higher, led by conglomerates, media, transport and real estate. But the key index was depressed by soft bank stocks and a weak gold sector which lost nearly one percent.
Among the hot stocks, the bank stocks suffered profit taking after strong gains earlier this week on record year-end earnings. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce fell C$1.10 to close at C$60.70. Toronto-Dominion Bank dropped C$1.00 to C$36.00 on 1.3 million shares.
Barrick Gold Corp lost C$0.70 to end at C$40.50 on 3.7 million shares as it continued talks with Bre-X Minerals Ltd. Barrick said on Friday it expects to strike a deal with Bre-X over the Busang gold deposit early next week. Bre-X shares fell C$0.35 to C$20.65 on 2.4 million shares.
Copper and base metals miner Aur Resources Inc gained C$0.10 to reach C$8.35. Cominco Ltd. sold its minority stake in one block of 4.2 million shares.
Geac Computer Corp Ltd. rose C$3.25 to C$26.00 in active dealings.
Cocoa buyers in central Ivory Coast say their purchases are down by 30 percent from this time last year and expect the country's total 1996/97 cocoa output to be under 850,000 tonnes.
"The estimates have been too high. The crop will be about 800-850,000 tonnes for the whole year," said one buyer. Most other buyers in the area visited by Reuters agreed.
"We have had two strong years but now we are going back to normal levels," said one buyer with nine purchasing centres. "Our business is running at 65 percent of last year."
The state of cocoa farms between the main central towns of Gagnoa and Daloa seen by Reuters varied widely with cocoa pod deterioration strongest in the north around Daloa.
Ivory Coast exporters said this week cocoa arrivals were down 25 percent on this time last year.
Exporters and buyers in southwest Ivory Coast expect arrivals of the 1996/97 crop to be no more than 900,000 tonnes.
Private forecasters last summer projected a main crop alone of 850-900,000 tonnes. The 1996/97 season opened on October 24.
Prime Minister Daniel Kablan Duncan said recently he expected his country's total cocoa crop to shrink to 950,000 tonnes in 1996/97 from a record 1.2 million tonnes last year.
Buyers in Daloa told Reuters production from older trees in their area would pull down average Ivorian cocoa production figures boosted by higher yields from young hybrids around Soubre and San Pedro in the southwest.
They said bean sizes varied widely from farm to farm and between trees, with a range of 90-100 per 100 grammes and 9-10 percent humidity.
Beans totalling no more than 105 per 100 grammes are considered exportable.
"The trees here are older and have not recovered from giving a massive mid-crop last year," said the biggest cocoa buyer in Daloa. "Overall quality is good but the beans are smaller and mid crop beans might be too small for export."
Several buyers said they would close their stores in June.
"Crop forecasts have been too high while pod survival has been poor. There is little on trees for the rest of the year," said the main Gagnoa buyer.
Pods had wilted on trees because of sparse rains since September and insects had thrived in the dry conditions as farmers could not afford treatments early in the harvesting season, said one plantation owner.
Six farms visited by Reuters between Daloa and Gagnoa showed plenty of wilted, deformed or undersized pods with insect damage and occasional "black pod" fungal disease.
Mature but discarded November and December-harvest pods lay in heaps on some farms with mid-crop flowering rare.
However, the situation south of Gagnoa was markedly different with little disease, insect damage or pod wilting.
"If farmers could afford to spray (treatments) other plantations would be in much better shape," said one farmer.
Several farms had good pod sizes and age distribution with flowering concentrated on some trees.
"Rains south of Gagnoa have been more spread out so the situation is better there," said the manager of one well-kept plantation.
He said Harmattan season sun mixed with some cloud cover and daily showers would help flowering for mid-crop pods.
Buyers said most cocoa had now been brought out of the bush with few village stores remaining full. Transportation to port would not be delayed much by road conditions, they said.
The up-country buying operations of recently liquidated SOGEPAG, a subsidiary of large Ivorian exporter SIFCA, have been taken over by Daloa-based private buyer Enza Diaby -- an associate of SIFCA.
Larger SOGEPAG stores have stopped receiving cocoa but smaller centres were operating. The firm offered cooperative-like terms and logisitical help to farmers.
"Diaby is running the small stores. He has enough trucks for collecting cocoa," said other buyers.
One farmer said long-term output around Gagnoa was set to decline as trees aged and government agencies encouraged farmers to plant rubber and diversify agricultural production.
-- Abidjan bureau +225 21 90 90
Ivory Coast's 1996/97 coffee crop is set to return to the 250-300,000-tonne levels seen before farmers neglected their trees in the early 1990s, exporters and up-country buyers say.
Coffee output in 1995/96 was around 180,000 tonnes and experts see the increase as part of a new good-moderate-weak cycle that tends to dominate the sector.
"It is a very good crop although there are some quality problems," one San Pedro exporter told Reuters.
"I think the crop will be at least 250,000 tonnes," said a large buyer visited in the coffee-rich areas around Man and Vavoua. "Exporters are not yet buying and the world price is still very low."
Prime Minister Daniel Kablan Duncan last week said the crop would exceed 200,000 tonnes after a 32 billion CFA franc rehabilitation plan, favourable weather and better maintenance.
The government set a higher 1995/96 price to encourage production, but reference farmgate coffee prices were set lower this year to lessen government subsidisation of the sector.
Ivory Coast slashed its 1996/97 farmgate price to 500 CFA from 700 CFA for unhulled green coffee cherries, with lower prices for hulled cherries.
Most buyers and exporters visited by Reuters in a tour this week have not yet seen a full 1996/97 marketing list detailing their commissions, but they said they would have to accept rates shown in a copy obtained by Reuters.
"Buyers will lose out on commission," said one. Exporters said operations would go ahead in spite of some objections.
The new marketing season opened on November 14, delayed from early October.
Coffee marketing would get underway from mid-December as usual after cocoa harvests tail off, San Pedro exporters said.
"Most coffee is now held in village stores and the weather means drying and sorting will take more time," said one buyer.
Good yields meant some farmers had stripped ripe and unripe beans and mixed them together, they said.
Large amounts of coffee, both green and ripe red cherries, were this week seen by Reuters drying, some mixed together, along roadsides and in bush clearings, particularly in the north. Green cherries are bought at discounted prices.
Well-managed plantations visited were harvesting once a month but many trees around villages showed signs of unselective stripping, buyers said.
"Farmers take less care when quantities rise so we will have to consider the price," said a Daloa buyer. "Exporters have not put in orders yet so we are not buying."
One Abidjan-based exporter who went up-country this week also said quality was down. "It is pretty bad in some places but the quantities are excellent," he said.
One crop analyst recently forecast 1996/97 production at 230,000 tonnes but most buyers and exporters said the figure was too low. Some up-country buyers said output could even be higher than 250,000 tonnes.
One expected 300,000 tonnes this year but most estimates put 1996/97 yields at one-third higher than the previous season, matching expected percentage drops in cocoa output.
A mild dry season favouring flowering and the natural production cycle of coffee trees had lifted the crop from a relatively poor 180,000 tonnes range in 1995/96, said Jean Toullec, a plantation manager in Gagnoa.
"I think 250,000 tonnes is possible as farms are being well maintained," he said. "We are seeing 600 kg of coffee per hectare each harvest instead of 450."
-- Abdidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Cocoa arrivals at Ivory Coast's ports this season could be 25 percent below last season's record 1.2 million tonne because of erratic weather and insect damage starting in July, buyers and exporters around San Pedro say.
They predict cumulative arrivals to the end of November of around 250,000 tonnes and of up to 300,000 for December.
"Mid-December to February will dip because of the rains in July," said one exporter in the southwestern port. "Harvests will now be later and more prolonged, but not over 900,000 tonnes."
Buyers said heavy July and August rains hurt flowers for December and January pods. Sunshine after August had helped the outlook for March while lighter rains, which started in early November, would boost flowering for mid-crop pods.
Widespread wilting of smaller pods was noted this week on on southwestern farms east and north of San Pedro last visited in September. Insect damage and "black pod" fungus had also been noticeable.
The Ivory Coast has slated 950,000 tonnes for its total 1996/97 output after private forecaster estimates of 850-900,000 for the main crop alone. The 1995/96 season hit a 1.2 million tonnes record after a higher than expected mid-crop of 200,000 tonnes.
But one San Pedro exporter said, "There will be no more than 900,000 tonnes for the whole year. It could have been better but pod deterioration, insects and maybe even the trees' natural cycle have had an effect."
Local buyers and other exporters in the southwest agree, some putting the output at even less, but they say mid-crop predictions are unreliable.
Few flowers and pods were seen on coastal farms and little cocoa was drying along roadsides. Tree pods and village stores were more plentiful in productive Meadji and Soubre areas.
Exporters and buyers in the southwest now matching cocoa arrivals data with last season's say volumes are down, with humidity higher at 8-10 percent and smaller bean sizes of between 93 and 100 per 100 grammes, against 85-90 last year.
"There is less cocoa than last year. It takes twice as long to fill a truck driving around the bush and it needs a lot of drying," said a buyer in Sassandra. Buyers elsewhere agreed.
Cumulative arrivals to end-November could be 250,000 tonnes, the sources said. One put registered cumulative arrivals at 213,000 to November 24, with 85,000 arriving in the week up to then. November arrivals last year topped 300,000.
Buyers and exporters foresee arrivals of around 250,000- 300,000 for December against about 400,000 in 1995/96.
A San Pedro exporters' agent said he had taken in 22,800 tonnes of cocoa this season with 10,000 still in stores and room for 25,000 more. Many San Pedro warehouses were full this time last year.
Another said their cumulative year-on arrivals were down 15 percent at November 24 and expected the gap to widen in December.
San Pedro's largest port handler expects up to 30 percent less volume this year and said arrivals to November 17 totalled 70,000 tonnes. The port expects to handle a third of this year's crop.
Cocoa quality is good but some mouldy, moist and deteriorated beans were being mixed in the rush to supply exporters.
"Some buyers can charge higher prices as export contracts have been sold up to March and have to be met," said one. Mould levels were around four percent, he added.
Some buyers have supplied farmers with insecticides and say dry Harmattan weather moving southwards will help drying. One 15-tonne capacity dryer was out of action after a fire at a San Pedro plant on Saturday.
Exporters said they now accept the 1996/97 list of marketing prices set by the government this month after a late start to the season. But they said the Caistab marketing board had not altered its auctioning system to prevent overbidding.
Smaller exporters say some people have been laid off until March as they cannot match prices bid over opening calls.
"About 750,000 tonnes have been sold to highest bidders but the Caistab has not sold the 15 percent it retains. Maybe they are waiting for higher world prices," one exporter said.
A San Pedro factory said it aimed to process 25-30,000 tonnes of cocoa this year.
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's state oil holding firm Rosneft said on Friday it would protest against a local decision to award Exxon Corp the right to tap Arctic oilfields, signalling Moscow's tougher line towards Western energy companies.
Rosneft spokesman Vladimir Tumarkin said Exxon, which regional officials declared the winner of a tender to develop the Central Khoreiverskaya oilfields in the northern Timan-Pechora area, would be given too many privileges.
"Exxon's bid violates the terms of the tender in that it would give Exxon the exclusive right to these resources as well as the right to tell the Russian side under what terms it should work," he told Reuters.
The protest is the most concrete evidence to date that Moscow, in a significant change of policy, is serious about giving its own oil companies a greater role in developing Russian oilfields.
The legal basis upon which Rosneft -- which bid jointly with a subsidiary and Amoco Corp in the tender -- would protest was not immediately clear.
Exxon officials could not be reached for comment.
"What are you talking about; how can they protest this?" said Anatoly Kazakov, deputy head of the Arkhangelsk oblast regional administration and a member of the region's Nenets autonomous district tender committee that on Thursday declared Exxon the winner.
"Everything was done absolutely normally."
Under the tender, Exxon would have a 50 percent stake and conduct negotiations to bring Rosneft, Russian oil firm KomiTEK and exploration body Arkhangelskgeoldobycha in to split the remaining 50 percent in a production-sharing contract.
Rosneft is the state's agent in all production-sharing contracts and has the right to dispose of the state's share of output from such deals.
Tumarkin said that under the original terms of the Central-Khoreiverskaya tender, no foreign firm had the right to tell the Russian side how to work.
"Exxon did not conduct negotiations with us when it bid and its proposal gives it an exclusive right to the reserves," he said.
The quarrel over who will develop the fields, which contain about 160 million tonnes of oil and require about $1.5 billion to develop, underscores the ambivalence Russia feels about attracting foreign oil investment.
One the one hand, it desperately needs the money. On the other hand, it is loath to repeat the kind of contracts signed to develop reserves off the Far Eastern island of Sakhalin, contracts in which foreign firms hold nearly 100 percent stakes.
"Fifty-fifty -- what's the problem?" said Kazakov."As a Russian, I agree we should support our companies. But if our companies don't have the money or financing, we have to do something else."
The squabble is the first test of how much more difficult Russia could make it for Western oil companies seeking to tap big reserves.
Tumarkin said Rosneft had wanted Exxon to form a consortium with at least some of the other bidders, including the informal Rosneft/Amoco alliance, Texaco Inc, Total SA of France and Norsk Hydro ASA.
But the idea had received little support, he said.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
The Czech Republic could have a 50,000- 100,000 tonne sugar surplus from this year's campaign but little will be exported due to high local production costs and a world sugar surplus, sugar experts say.
The Agriculture Ministry said the state would buy some surplus sugar for strategic reserves and would prepare indirect support for exporters but it ruled out direct export subsidies.
Industry sources varied in their assesment of potential foreign markets but agreed producers will try to sell as much as they can at home as world prices were considerably lower.
"It is expected that the surplus will be up to 80,000 to 100,000 tonnes," said Eva Divisova of the ministry, adding that total production will be between 520,000 and 540,000 tonnes raw value after last campaign's 460,035 tonnes.
She added net sugar exports in 1996 should be about 4,000 tonnes. Divisova declined to say how much the state would buy for its reserves from this year's crop, nor what the reserves are, saying this was secret.
"State reserves will be filled, other parts will have to be exported. But it is very difficult to get to foreign markets," Divisova added.
She said Slovakia was not importing due to higher output. There are payment problems with Ukraine and Russia, but former Yugoslav countries were potentially interesting, she said.
Director of trading firm Agrointernational Petr Prochazka believed the surplus would total 50,000-80,000 tonnes, most of which would stay in the Czech Republic.
"The surplus will not be so dramatic...There are quite good yields but the harvest is going slowly due to bad weather. A forecast freeze and subsequent warming will limit output."
"Producers will not want to export...(because of low prices) Those who can store it, will, he told Reuters, adding he believed the state could buy up to 20,000 tonnes for reserves.
Secretary of the Sugar Refiners' Association Vladimir Ulrich also saw a 50,000-80,000-tonne surplus but said it could be partially swallowed by the state and the elasticity of domestic consumption. But he stressed that financial costs of storing sugar could push producers to sell at any price.
Ulrich said local prices have dropped to 12-15 crowns per kilo from 16 earlier in the year. The market is protected by a 68.4 percent tariff, which will drop next year to 65 percent.
"We are pushed from two sides -- the domestic surplus and low price on the world market. If prices drop further, other sugar could get here," Ulrich told Reuters.
Breweries could buy up to 10,000 tonnes more than they usually do if prices go below the costs of malt, and citric acid makers could take care of another 10,000 tonnes, Ulrich said.
"There is a hunger for sugar in Bulgaria, Romaina, Ukraine, also in Russia," said Ulrich. He added that Poland, which itself expects to have a sizeable surplus, was also a potential market.
"We also cannot expect to supply the London exchange, because our sugar does not meet the conditions," added Prochazka.
He said Czech exporters could also look to traditional markets like Saudi Arabia..."Of course, the price would be poor."
The ministry and Ulrich said the surplus would lead to a smaller sown area next year after 104,115 hectares this year. "I believe the optimal area for next few years would be between 90,000 and 94,000 hectares," Ulrich said.
Consolidated Eurocan Ventures Ltd , a small Canadian mining exploration company, was poised to gain control of one of the world's largest unexplored copper-cobalt discoveries on Friday.
The Zaire government agreed to a deal with the Vancouver-based company backed by Geneva-based Swedish financier Adolf Lundin, spokesmen from both sides told Reuters in Zaire. The deal gives Gecamines, Zaire's state-owned mining company, a 45 percent stake in the huge Tenke Fungurume deposit. Eurocan will have a 55 percent stake, sources said.  
A spokeswoman for Eurocan in Vancouver said she expected official confirmation by Monday morning.
Eurocan has said it expected to win the property for US$250 million and a commitment to develop the property.
"It's a very satisfactory deal for Eurocan, if they've got it," said Andrew Milligan, president of Cornucopia Resources Ltd, a Vancouver-based company that had also had its eye on Tenke Fungurume.
"It's one of the best projects anywhere in the world."  
Cornucopia had formed a tentative consortium last spring with metals giants Inco Ltd and Phelps Dodge Corp, hoping to submit a proposal for the project.
But Eurocan's pact freezes Cornucopia out of the running.
The deal gives a hint of some stability in Zaire's business world, said Ken MacLeod, president and chief executive of International Panorama Resource Corp, another Vancouver-based company exploring in Zaire.
"It gives a signal that the government is working and it's in business," he said in an interview. "From an investment perspective, it's a powerful message.  
"It means when Gecamines gets involved in an agreement, the government backs them up."
But some analysts were concerned about the high risks involved in doing business in Zaire, a country plagued by political uncertainty and overrun by crowds of refugees from neighboring Rwanda.
"Zaire is a basketcase," said mining analyst Tony Hayes at brokerage Credifinance in Toronto.
The amount of money Eurocan will have to invest and pay for the project is "ridiculous" for the return and the risk the company can expect, he said.
Milligan estimated it would cost about US$300 million for initial development of Tenke Fungurume and up to US$3 billion in total capital costs.
The project was previously explored by a consortium led by Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd, which invested almost US$300 million in the project in the 1970s but walked away because of political risk.
-- Heather Scoffield, Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8104
Canada's Big Six banks are cruising toward a record C$6 billion ($4.4 billion) annual profit with strong earnings from three banks and buoyant profits expected from Canada's two other largest banks next week.
Bank of Montreal and Bank of Nova Scotia -- the number three and four banks respectively -- cracked the C$1 billion ($740 million) mark this week.
Toronto-Dominion Bank fell short of the billion dollar club, but Canada's fifth largest bank still turned in a record year.
The profit parade continues when Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce deliver their results on Wednesday and Thursday respectively.
"They will have whopping earnings. They will be record earnings, rest assured," Roy Palmer, a banking analyst with TD Sercurities Inc., said on Friday.
National Bank of Canada, the smallest of the Big Six, also reports its earnings next Thursday.
Bank of Montreal, Scotiabank and TD posted double-digit increases in net income this week -- with strong growth in personal, corporate and investment banking. The earnings so far have been in line with analysts' forecasts.
"There were no surprises. Just really solid quarters from everybody," said CIBC Wood Gundy analyst Mark Maxwell.
The banks' investment, brokerage and mutual fund businesses enjoyed a banner year as financial markets soared in 1996.
Royal Bank's investment arm. RBC Dominion Securities Ltd, has already posted a record profit. RBC said on Thursday its earnings jumped to C$154.3 million ($114 million) in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, up from C$77 million ($57 million) a year ago.
"In addition to two major mergers...each of our four global businesses turned in strong performances contributing to record results for the year," said RBC president Reay Mackay.
RBC recently completed its C$480 million ($355 million) purchase of brokerage firm Richardson Greenshields of Canada Ltd., and merged some operations with parent Royal Bank.
CIBC's investment unit is also expected to post bullish earnings when the bank reports its results next week.
Analysts said earnings growth for the Big Six is expected slow in 1997, particularly if bond and stock markets cool off.
However, TD Bank expects the boom to continue. "The current low level of interest rates should result in increased economic activity in Canada in 1997 and the gradual return of consumer confidence," said TD president Charles Baillie.
More dividend hikes are possible next week following increases at Scotiabank and TD.
Scotiabank raised its payout by C3 cents (2 cents) to C37 cents (27 cents) a share, its second increase of 1996. TD boosted its dividend by C3 cents (2 cents) to C28 cents (21 cents) a share.
"I would be astonished if CIBC did not increase its dividend at this time," said Palmer. CIBC last raised its dividend by C5 cents (4 cents) to C45 cents (33 cents) last June.
Maxwell said there is less pressure on Royal Bank and National Bank to raise their dividends now, but an increase may come in early 1997.
Improved credit quality also contributed to bottom lines of Scotiabank, Bank of Montreal and TD.
All three banks reported lower loan loss provisions for 1996. TD surprising analysts with a deeper-than-expected drop in its provision to C$152 million ($112 million) from C$180 million ($133 million) in 1995.
Analysts said loan losses for the Big Six appear to have touched bottom and are expected to creep higher next year.
The child chosen by China to be Tibet's second holiest monk passed the first anniversary of his selection quietly in Beijing on Friday, far from the restive Himalayan region, officals in the capital said.
Officials in Tibet said they had concluded a six-month push to curb separatist sentiment in the deeply Buddhist region's monasteries, a campaign that an overseas watchdog group has reported led to the expulsion or detention of scores of monks.
Seven-year-old Gyaincain Norbu, chosen by China as the 11th incarnation of the Panchan Lama, would not attend any activities on the first anniversary of his selection, an official of the Tibet regional authority's Beijing office said.
"The child is in Beijing, so there will not be any activities in Tibet," the official said by telephone.
All planned anniversary celebrations slated for the capital had been completed, he said.
State media have said that Norbu, regarded by many Tibetans as a pretender to the 10th Panchen Lama's spiritual mantle, visited Beijing's Yonghe Lamasery last week to celebrate the anniversary of his enthronement.
Tibet's spiritual leader, the exiled Dalai Lama, has named another boy as the reincarnation of the 10th Panchen Lama, the Himalayan region's second holiest monk who died in 1989.
Chinese sources have said Beijing's choice lives in the capital under state protection against possible assassination attempts by radical Tibetans.
In Tibet, an official of the religious affairs bureau said a six-month campaign to boost patriotism and curb separatist sentiment in the region's monasteries had been concluded.
The London-based human rights watchdog Tibet Information Network (TIN) said this week that official attempts to bring restive clergy to heel had led to at least 150 monks being expelled from their monasteries and possibly 20 arrests.
TIN said many monks had been told to leave because they refused to criticise the Dalai Lama, Beijing's greatest rival for the loyalties of the remote region's people.
Some monks had been sent back to civilian life because they did not behave properly during the patriotism campaign, the religious affairs official said but gave no details.
He dismissed a report from TIN that the campaign left only 300 monks at Ganden monastery near the Tibetan capital.
"Ganden has more than 490 monks...they are all at the monastery," he said, but declined to comment on whether there was an official limit on the number of clergy allowed there.
"That is a secret, we cannot talk about it on the telephone," he said.
While Beijing says most Tibetans back Chinese rule, a constant propaganda barrage against supporters of the Dalai Lama, exiled since an abortive uprising against Beijing rule in 1959, is testament to his remaining influence.
An edition of the Tibet Daily newspaper seen in Beijing on Friday quoted senior officials as saying all public figures should clearly state their position in the war on separatism.
"Some of our comrades do not sufficiently recognise the Dalai Lama clique's ideological infiltration and do not combat it strongly enough," the newspaper said.
Shoppers lined up outside stores Friday, some arriving before dawn to get an early start on the holiday shopping season.
The day after Thanksgiving is traditionally one of the busiest days of the year for retailers and the unofficial start of the holiday shopping season, the make-or-break time for many retailers.
With consumer confidence high and employment strong, analysts are generally expecting sales gains of about 5 percent over last year's weak sales growth. The crunch is especially tight this year, since there are five fewer days between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
"The money's there. The confidence is there. The jobs are there. The goods are there and the pent-up demand is there," said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Primark Decision Economics. Sinai forecast sales growth of 4.5 percent for November and December, compared with 2.9 percent gains a year ago.
Shoppers also were there, with many retailers offering early bird sales to entice them.
Roni Campos lined up outside the door of the Wal-Mart at first Colony Mall in Sugarland, Texas, a suburb of Houston, at 6:30 a.m.
"You should have seen Wal-Mart. They had a 13-inch television on sale for $99, and people were fighting for those TVs. Arms were flying, and people were just pulling those things off the shelf," she said.
Stephanie Foster, of Richmond, Texas, was shopping for baby gifts in Mervyns California, a Dayton Hudson Corp. store chain.
"They had a line outside Target of at least 200 people," said Foster, who began her shop-a-thon this year at 5 a.m., shopping list in hand. "I started out with a list of what everybody wanted and what time every store opened."
As one of the first customers through the door at Target, she was handed a bag with treats, juice, coupons and mints.
"I came here for a 64 bit Nintendo (for my granddaughters) and they had 40 in stock, but I ended up with two bags of Christmas presents," Rosalee DiGregorio said at the Menlo Park Mall in Edison, N.J.
Other items that were expected to be hot this year are those related to the movies "101 Dalmatians" and "Space Jam," said Tracy Mullin, president of the National Retail Federation. Barbie dolls from Mattel Inc. are also expected to be hot sellers, especially Holiday Barbie.
"Believe it or not, Barbie still has legs," Mullin said.
The federation is forecasting holiday sales will rise about 6 percent over last year, reaching about $460 billion.
While the the day after Thanksgiving attracts traffic and media attention, actual sales for retailers tend to come later in the holiday season.
"This whole weekend only accounts for 8 percent of purchasing," said John Konarski, vice president of research for the International Council of Shopping Centers.
Susan Eich, a spokeswoman for Dayton Hudson, said sales volume the day after Thanksgiving is typically three times the retailer's normal sales. That day and the Saturday before Christmas are typically the company's busiest days.
Filene's Basement Corp.'s flagship store in downtown Boston opened at 7 a.m. and was packed with shoppers by 7:30. Filene's Basement Chief Executive Samuel Gerson said the cold weather and a late Thanksgiving were making for a busy season.
At the Falls, a mall near Miami, a small fire on a utility pole nearby cut off power to the complex for about an hour Friday morning.
"We actually ran registers, but off power. Everyone was doing it by hand, doing it by candle light," said a spokeswoman for the Bloomingdale's store at the mall. Bloomingdale's is owned by Federated Department Stores Inc..
Norm Allen, head of customer services at the Glendale Galleria in suburban Los Angeles, said the 280-store complex opened at 8 a.m. with about 100 shoppers in line to enter.
"This is going to be a good year. Our volume sales are already up 8 to 10 percent over last year at this time," he said.
Apparel and soft goods were expected to lead sales nationwide, while analysts and retailers expect tough competition and a lack of major new items to pressure sales at elctronics stores.
"We'll provide an array of holiday sales," said John Costello senior executive vice president of marketing for Chicago-based Sears, Roebuck and Co.. "Our sales are comparable to last year."
British entrepreneur Richard Branson's Virgin Group Friday clinched a British rail franchise and said it planned to spend an extra 250 million pounds ($420 million) on new trains and increased services.
He won control of the CrossCountry service, which covers more than 130 stations and is based in the central British city of Birmingham.
The company, with 842 employees and passenger revenues worth 108 million pounds ($181.3 million) in the year to March, is part of the national rail network that is in the process of being privatised.
"Virgin believes that it can be built into one of the prime rail franchises serving several markets... Exciting times are ahead," Branson told a London news briefing.
The Virgin empire, which spans everything from its airline, music and financial services to its own-label cola, already has a major rail business.
It is a partner in the London and Continental Railways (LCR) consortium which owns the Eurostar passenger service that links London with Paris and Brussels through the Channel Tunnel.
Will Whitehorn, director of Virgin Rail, told Reuters, "Our key plan is to buy a new fleet, spending 250 million pounds ($419.7 million) on new rolling stock, agreed as part of the bid."
The order will be placed next year, with the first deliveries due in 2002. Under financial terms, the government subsidy in the first year of the 15-year franchise will be 112.9 million pounds ($189.6 million).
That subsidy has been cut from the 1996/97 level of 127 million pounds ($213.2 million) and will average 36.4 million ($61.1 million) over the life of the franchise term.
Whitehorn said the subsidy will be eroded over the 15-year term and in the final year Virgin Rail will make a 10 million pound ($16.9 million) payment to the government.
Sir George Young, transport secretary said, "This deal is final proof of the renaissance which is sweeping through Britain's railway industry... Virgin will take a loss-making nationalised company and transform it within 15 years into a profitable enterprise."
Virgin will refurbish the company's HST 125 diesel trains and has pledged to increase train miles by 14 percent between May 1998 and 2002.
The services will be rebranded under the Virgin name and cover destinations across England, Scotland and Wales.
This is the first rail franchise to be awarded to Virgin Rail which also bid unsuccessfully for the Gatwick Express route.
But Virgin is on the shortlist for the West Coast rail franchise and has a bid in for the Thameslink service in London.
Of 25 rail franchises covering passenger services across Britain, the government has sold 14 to the private sector as part of its privatisation of the network.
British entrepreneur Richard Branson's Virgin Group said on Friday it had clinched the CrossCountry passenger rail franchise and planned to spend an extra 250 million pounds ($420 million) on new trains and increased services.
CrossCountry, which covers more than 100 stations and is based in the central British city of Birmingham, is one of the last few passenger rail franchises to be awarded under Britain's rail priavatisation programme.
The company has 842 staff and in the year to March 30 passenger revenues were 108 million pounds.
"Our key plan is to buy a new fleet, spending 250 million on new rolling stock, agreed as part of the bid," Will Whitehorn, director of Virgin Rail, said in an interview.
Train orders will be placed next year, with the first deliveries due to be made in 2002. Under Virgin's financial terms with the government, it will get a subsidy in the first year of the 15 year franchise of 115 million pounds. This is 12 million pounds less than in 1996/97.
Whitehorn said the subsidy will be eroded over the 15 year term and in the final year Virgin Rail will make a 10 million payment to the government.
It will refurbish existing HST 125 diesel trains and has pledged to increase train miles by 14 percent. "We will grow the service, we will not cut them." he said.
The services will be rebranded under the Virgin name and cover destinations across England, Scotland and Wales.
This is the first rail franchise to be awarded to Virgin Rail which also bid unsuccessfully for the Gatwick Express route which went to National Express buses.
But Virgin is on the shortlist for the West Coast rail franchise and has a bid in for the Thameslink service in London. There are 25 rail franchises in all, covering passenger services across Britain.
So far the government has sold 14 franchises to the private sector as part of its privatisation of the entire network.
The Virgin empire, which spans everything from its airline, music and financial services to its own-label cola, already has a major rail business.
It is a partner in the London and Continental Railways consortium which owns the Eurostar passenger service linking London with Paris and Brussels through the Channel Tunnel.
Service through the Channel Tunnel were suspended last week after a serious fire.
Whitehorn refused to comment on the financial impact of the closure of Eurotunnel's tunnel.
LCR has said that it needs to raise Eurostar's passenger traffic to fund construction of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link between the tunnel and London. ($1=.5956 Pound)
A revolution in the treatment of HIV and AIDS is proving a godsend not just for patients but for drug companies which have poured millions of pounds into fighting the epidemic.
Cocktails of new and old drugs are resulting in dramatic improvements in both quality of life and life expectancy, with some patient groups forecasting that death rates from AIDS in Europe next year could fall by 50 percent.
And as patients live longer and more people seek treatment at earlier stages of illness, drug companies like Britain's Glaxo Wellcome Plc are looking forward to a quantum leap in sales, with global turnover of AIDS and HIV products forecast to treble by the end of the century.
Analysts at Lehman Brothers expect sales of AIDS drugs at Glaxo Wellcome, which by a mixture of luck and good judgement holds two of the cornerstone drugs for combination therapy, to soar to around $2 billion by the end of the century from just $300 million in 1995.
Keith Alcorn, who writes for the influential British newsletter AIDS Treatment Update, used by both patients and doctors, said: "This year has been the most exceptional year in AIDS treatment yet, and the effects are very, very tangible. People are going back to work after being very ill and that in itself is quite unexpected."
ADVANCES REVIVE AZT
Advances have led to an extraordinary revival in the fortunes of Glaxo Wellcome's Retrovir. The drug, also known as AZT, was launched with a great fanfare in 1987, but its erratic performance disappointed patients and shareholders alike.
Doctors have found that using Retrovir, which stops the HIV virus from replicating, in combination with other treatments such as Bristol Myers Squibb Co's Didanosine, Hoffmann-La Roche's Zalcitabine and above all a new Glaxo Wellcome drug called Epivir can radically cut levels of HIV in the blood.
And preliminary evidence suggests the addition of a whole new class of drug, known as protease inhibitors, to the cocktail can produce even more sensational results, with the virus brought below detectable levels.
Lehman Brothers analyst Ian Smith said: "Use of Retrovir alone had a relatively minimal and transient effect on CD4 cell levels (key cells which HIV destroys, undermining the immune system) and viral load. But in combination the impact on viral load and CD4 was nothing short of stunning compared to what we saw a few years ago."
The progress has electrified an industry that just two years ago was mired in gloom over prospects for a breakthrough in treating AIDS. Anita Kidgell, Glaxo Wellcome's antivirals product communication manager, said that when scientists, activists and drug companies met at the 11th International Conference on AIDS in Vancouver, Canada, in July the atmosphere had been transformed.
"We were seeing that one could reduce the levels of the virus in patients' blood to undetectable levels," Kidgell said.
For the moment Glaxo Wellcome seems to have cornered the AIDS drug market, with Lehman predicting sales of Retrovir will double to $600 million by 1998 and that sales of Epivir, which Glaxo shrewdly licensed from Canada's BioChem Pharma Inc in 1990, will hit $750 million by 2000 from just $12 million in 1995.
But other companies are ahead of the British giant in developing protease inhibitors, the third element in the cocktail, which block an enzyme crucial to the spread of the HIV virus within the body.
Some 20 protease inhibitors are being developed, and Merck &amp; Co, Abbott Laboratories Inc and Roche Holdings AG have all rushed versions on to the market this year. The three companies are cautious about giving sales figures, but anecdotal evidence from patient groups together with U.S. sales data suggests that Merck's Crixivan is far outselling its rivals. Sales of this class of drug are likely to reach around $300 million this year.
NOTE OF CAUTION
But while there is understandable euphoria over the progress made to date, Robin Gorna, director of health promotion at Britain's leading AIDS charity the Terrence Higgins Trust, said: "We must be very cautious about saying everything is OK, we have got a cure." She said the mix of drugs taken by AIDS patients carry a raft of side effects and enforce a strict and life-changing dietary regime and timetable.
The explosion in effective treatment also has serious consequences for overstetched health and insurance budgets.
The Terrence Higgins Trust estimates that costs to the British taxpayer in the year to March 1998 of treatment with Retrovir alone would be 10.3 million pounds ($17.29 million). Treatment with a combination of three drugs would bump this up to around 50 million. And if, as expected, more people are encouraged to come forward and seek treatment before they develop AIDS, this could rise to around 74 million pounds.
Gorna said stories already abounded of patients being unable to get the drugs they need, either though lack of funds or ignorance on the part of doctors. AIDS support groups and companies, who cooperate increasingly, say they have to persuade governments that extended treatment with drugs is much cheaper than costly hospital care and dealing with the multiple complications of AIDS.
"We are all very hopeful," said Gorna. "It is looking good, but it really isn't over yet and we need drugs that are effective in the long term."
Britain's largest brewer Scottish &amp; Newcastle Plc will see more benefit from its Courage brands in its half year results due on Monday, but its holiday village business Center Parcs will hold it back, analysts said.
"The company will see an improvement from a full contribution at Courage, but what is really holding it back is Center Parcs and there could be a worry on the currency with the recent strength in the pound," said Nikko analyst Dermott Carr.
Analysts forecasts for pretax profits range from 178 to 198 million stg up from 154.5 million last time.  
Dividend forecasts centre on 7.0p. Brewing is expected to contribute some 80 million stg, with 45 million of this total anticipated from Courage. Courage made just 9.0 million stg in operating profit, on turnover of 298.9 million stg, to overall group profits in the first half of 1995.
S&amp;N acquired Courage from Australian brewer Foster's in August, 1995 to create Britain's largest brewing group in a deal that cost about 550 million stg. Since then S&amp;N has quickly set about reducing its brewing capacity by some 1.5 million barrels a year, initially by closing two breweries and shedding some 1,600 jobs.  
John Smith's Courage is now Britain's leading ale brand.
The group's Center Parcs holiday resorts are expected to suffer from continued weak consumer leisure spending in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. Center Parcs made operating profit of 82.0 million stg in the year to April 28, 1995 down 2.1 percent on turnover of 365.3 million. S&amp;N's new village at Bispinger Heide in Germany was opened against a very weak economic background in July 1995 and the cost of opening was higher than the company expected.  
Pontin's, S&amp;N's other leisure brand, made trading profits of 3.6 million, down from 4.1 million due to the sale of four sites and major refurbishment work at two others.
The performance of its Center Parc villages in the Netherlands and Belgium were adversely affected by a lack of consumer confidence and cut price competition from operators and it responded by investing heavily in those countries.
Analysts expect this trend to have carried on into the first half of the year, forcing the leisure division to report profits down some 5.0 million at 45 million.  
The company has three Center Parcs in Britain at Nottingham in the Midlands, East Anglia and Longleat, in the west of England. It owns two in France, one in Germany, two in Belgium and six in Holland.
However, S&amp;N's retail division, which includes the 1,600 strong chain of Chef &amp; Brewer restaurants, should see trading profits improve by increased investment aimed at rebranding and lifting the image of some outlets.
The company's managed pub estate has been rebranded to include pub-cafe bars like Rat &amp; Parrot and entertainment pubs like Big Hand Mo.  
The consensus of analysts forecasts for profits from the retail division rests at 88 million stg, up some 8.0 million on the first half of 1995. The division includes an estate of 740 tenanted and about 1,850 managed pubs as well as Chef &amp; Brewer.
The company's shares have outperformed its peers by about eight percent since February, but started underperforming the FTSE100 index by some six percent since late September.
The shares were up 142p at 642 on Friday from their 500p close on January 3. Return on equity is currently running at 5.62 percent, half its 11.32 percent level in 1995, against 10.44 percent currently for Bass.  
Operating margins have fallen to 12.27 percent from 15.46 percent in 1995.
A Reuter poll of 23 brokers estimates produced a consensus estimate EPS of 44.8 for the year ended April 28, 1997 rising to 49.5 for year end 1998.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
Singapore's Hotel Properties and property group Canary Wharf on Friday applied for detailed planning consent for a development aimed at injecting life into an office-dominated area of London's former docks.
"Life means people who stay here. We looked at what was lacking (in Canary Wharf) and that was life," Thio Gim Hock, executive director of HPL, told Reuters in an interview.
HPL and Canary Wharf, which is owned by an international consortium led by Paul Reichmann and including Prince Al Waleed bin Talal bin Abdulaziz al Saud of Saudi Arabia, formed an 80-20 joint venture for the residential, hotel and leisure project.
The multi-million pound scheme represents the first phase of development of an 11-acre (4.5 hectare) site adjoining the River Thames. It will be part of the landmark Canary Wharf docklands development to the east of the City financial district, home to Britain's tallest building.
The development will be the first at the massive Canary Wharf site since an agreement last year by banks to sell out to the Reichmann-led consortium. The banks had taken over the ownership when the original development company went into administration.
Despite these problems, 80 percent of the offices have now been occupied and Canary Wharf is vying with the London's traditional financial heartland as a site for large global investment banks to locate their new headquarters.
Office blocks have so far dominated the site, however, and Thio Gim Hock said he expects to start building 330 residential units, a five star hotel and sports club early in 1997. They are due to be completed by the end of 1998 or early 1999.
There is already outline planning permission from the London Docklands Development Corporation (LDDC) to develop the site and Canary Wharf's Robert John, a director of the joint venture, believes detailed permission should be granted.
An initial capitalisation of 50 million pounds ($83.95 million) will come from the partners. Further funding is expected to come from sale of apartments and bank loans, although Thio Gim Hock would not be drawn on the financing.
HPL, which has a stake in Britain's Virgin Cinemas as well as interests in hotels such as Four Seasons and residential developments, said in July the Canary Wharf scheme would cost around 250 million pounds, although the total cost is likely to be higher given the estimates for the first phase.
Designer Philippe Stark is to shape the hotel and leisure component of the new development, which will include a glass-covered "infinity" swimming pool which will give the appearance of dropping into the river Thames below.
Thio Gim Hock said Stark will "give some sex appeal to the development", which he says will have a country club atmosphere. He wants the hotel to have its own distinctive character which will be "elegant, understated and aimed at business people".
The developers also envisage opportunities for top-class restaurants with river views on the site.
He expects many of the apartments to be sold to people in Britain, but also hopes for overseas interest and foresees some buyers seeking an investment rather than a place to live. HPL's track-record in Singapore will, he said, encourage interest from the company's home patch.
"I have no doubt that a lot of them will come and buy here."
Work on the Canary Wharf project in the former London docks began in 1987 under Olympia and York, owned by the Reichmann family of Canada.
But in May 1992 Olympia and York Canary Wharf Ltd went into administration and was rescued by a group of banks that had financed the project in October 1993. ($1=.5956 Pound)
Virgin Rail group, the rail division of Entrepreur Richard branson's Virgin Group, said on Friday it planned to spend 250 million stg on new rolling stock after announcing it has won the CrossCountry rail franchise.
Will Whitehorn, director of Virgin Rail, told Reuters  "Our key plan is to buy a new fleet, spending 250 million (stg) on new rolling stock, agreed as part of the bid." The order will be placed next year, with delivery starting in 20002. He also said the government subsidy in the first year of the 15 year franchise will be 115 million pounds.  
The 115 million subsidy will be payable to Virgin in the first year of the new operation and has been reduced from the 1996/97 subsidy level of 127 million. Whitehorn said the subsidy will be eroded over the 15 year term and in the final year Virgin Rail will make a 10 milliong payment to the government.
It will refurbish the HST 125 diesel trains and pledges to increase train miles by 14 percent. "We will grow the service, we will not cut them." he said.
It plans to introduce a series of initiatives on the CrossCountry franchise, the first to be won by Virgin.
CrossCountry had 108 million stg in passenger revenues in the year to March 31. It employs 842 staff and covers services linking England, Scotland and Wales.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Markets across Eastern Europe remained mired in an autumn slump this week, with analysts seeing little on the horizon to break the bearish trend.
Stock exchanges in Bratislava, Bucharest, and Zagreb all lost ground on the week, while Prague and Warsaw held steady. Budapest and Ljubljana bucked the trend, rising slightly, although it appeared neither would see a sustained upturn in the near future.
PRAGUE
Not even a strong showing by the centre-right governing coalition in Senate elections at the weekend could break the Prague Stock Exchange out of its current malaise, as the PX50 index inched up 0.3 points on the week to close at 510.4.
Analysts said that while the coalition of Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus may feel heartened by the showing which gave him a majority to the Czech upper house, which will have little power, investors remain put off by poor market regulation.
"I'm a little sceptical about the possibility that the Senate will help bring changes to the market," said Pavel Sobisek of Zivnostenska Banka.
"I think there will be a lot of pressure from market participants on the government to do something...but I have not seen any signs of a change in attitude of the coalition with respect to this topic."
Investors have long complained that market regulation and legislation in the Czech Republic is weak, providing little protection for minority shareholders.
WARSAW
The Warsaw Stock Exchange stayed virtually flat this week and analysts said it could extend its three-and-a-half-week horizontal trend next week as no fresh signals were in sight.
"We are still in a horizontal trend and...I see no factors which could help create a clear direction for the market," said Mateusz Andrzejewski, an analyst at Pekao SA brokerage.
But other analysts saw the generally positive economic climate as an impulse strong enough to help the bourse climb next week above 14,000 points.
Analysts said the central bank deputy head's Tuesday comment on a possible rise in interest rates next year was bringing some uncertainty to the bourse but was unlikely to signficantly hurt prices.
BUDAPEST
Hungarian shares started off the weekend strongly, boosted by a government decision to hike energy prices, but they ran out of steam by the middle of the week.
Oil and gas company MOL led the charge, but dealers said its weakening on Thursday could be a harbinger.
"MOL turned around today (on Thursday), that is a warning sign," said New York Broker's Kalman Schuszter. "Sellers are stronger now." The BUX index closed on Friday at 3,700.99, up 2.12 percent from Monday's open.
BRATISLAVA
Slovak share prices continued their freefall on the Bratislava Stock Exchange which has lost about 25 percent since the end of August.
The 12-share SAX index fell 10.33 points on the week to close at 163.98 on Friday.
Dealers said the silver lining to the bourse's woes may be that prices are becoming so cheap that foreign investors will soon be lured back.
BUCHAREST
Scant demand kept volumes modest at both weekly sessions in Bucharest, with turnover low and most prices edging down or staying flat.
The unofficial VAB index inched down from the previous session by 1.1 percent to 294.2 points, while the BIG index eased 1.07 percent to 293.41.
Fertiliser maker Azomures SA dominated trading, while newcomer, an oilfield equipment maker, put on a poor show.
ZAGREB
Croatian stocks were mostly lower in dwindling trade and analysts said they could see no end to the bearish period as big buyers continue to shy away from the market because of political developments.
Croatia has been shaken by a wave of strikes, and last week Zagreb saw its biggest protest in years.
LJUBLJANA
Political concerns were also apparent in Ljubljana this week, with investors waiting for a new prime minister to be named, probably in the second half of December.
"The market will be uneasy until it is clear who will form the new government," one trader said.
Still, the SBI index rallied on Friday to close at 1,160.1, up 0.7 percent on the week.
Although the Liberal Democrats of current Prime Minister Janez Drnovsek were the strongest single party in the general election, winning 25 out of 90 parliamentary seats, they are facing a loose alliance of rightist "Spring" parties, who got 45 seats.
		  CLOSE     WEEK'S CHANGE    1996/HIGH    1996/LOW
		  NOV 29	NET     PCT
 CESI	  1,395.46     -6.36  -0.45   1,544.70     959.24
 BUDAPEST    3,700.99    +76.89  +2.12   3,728.58   1,557.91
 PRAGUE	  510.4	+0.3   +0.01     582.0	425.9
 WARSAW     13,789.9    +119.4   +0.9   15,078.7    7,725.2
 BRATISLAVA    163.98    -10.33  -5.93     226.34     150.4
 VAB-Index     294.2	-4.83  -1.6	879.29     285.3
 BIG-Index     293.41     -4.96  -1.6	820.9	284.29
 LJUBLJANA   1,160.1	+7.91  +0.7    1,589.18     891.93
All-time highs: CESI 1,544.70 (Sept 2/1996); WIG 20,760.3 (March 8, 1994); SBI 1,598.02 (June 28/1994); PX50 1,002.4 (April 7/1994); BUX 3,728.58 (Oct 17/1996); SAX 402.3 (Feb/1994). ($=3,570 lei)
British entrepreneur Richard Branson's Virgin Group on Friday clinched a British rail franchise and said it planned to spend an extra 250 million pounds ($420 million) on new trains and increased services.
He won control of the CrossCountry serice, which covers more than 130 stations and is based in the central British city of Birmingham.
The company, which has 842 staff and earned passenger revenues worth 108 million pounds ($181.3 million) in the year to March, is part of the national rail network that is in the process of being privatised.
"Virgin believes that it can be built into one of the prime rail franchises serving several markets...Exciting times are ahead," Branson told a London news briefing.
Will Whitehorn, director of Virgin Rail, told Reuters: "Our key plan is to buy a new fleet, spending 250 million pounds on new rolling stock, agreed as part of the bid."
The order will be placed next year, with the first deliveries due in 2002. Under financial terms, the government subsidy in the first year of the 15 year franchise will be 112.9 million pounds.
The 112.9 million subsidy has been cut from the 1996/97 level of 127 million pounds and will average at 36.4 million over the life of the franchise term.
Whitehorn said the subsidy will be eroded over the 15 year term and in the final year Virgin Rail will make a 10 million pound payment to the government.
Sir George Young, transport secretary said: "This deal is final proof of the renaissance which is sweeping through Britain's railway industry...Virgin will take a loss-making nationalised company and transform it within 15 years into a profitable enterprise."
Virgin will refurbish the company's HST 125 diesel trains and has pledged to increase train miles by 14 percent between May 1998 and 2002.
The services will be rebranded under the Virgin name and cover destinations across England, Scotland and Wales.
This is the first rail franchise to be awarded to Virgin Rail which also bid unsuccessfully for the Gatwick Express route.
But Virgin is on the shortlist for the West Coast rail franchise and has a bid in for the Thameslink service in London.
Of 25 rail franchises covering passenger services across Britain, the government has sold 14 to the private sector as part of its privatisation of the network.
The Virgin empire, which spans everything from its airline, music and financial services to its own-label cola, already has a major rail business.
It is a partner in the London and Continental Railways (LCR) consortium which owns the Eurostar passenger service that links London with Paris and Brussels through the Channel Tunnel.
A serious fire in the tunnel last week has temporarily halted services, but Whitehorn declined to comment on the financial impact on the company.
LCR has said that it needs to raise Eurostar's passenger traffic to fund construction of the planned Channel Tunnel Rail Link between London and the tunnel. ($1=.5956 Pound)
Chinese authorities have closed their eyes to the booming illegal trade by domestic investors in foreign currency B shares and will not interfere unless the market becomes too speculative, analysts said on Friday.
The B shares listed on China's two stock markets, in Shanghai and Shenzhen, were created to attract funds from foreign investors.
But in the past six months the vast majority of trading has been done by domestic investors who have opened trading accounts by various means in contravention of the rules.
"The authorities have just closed their eyes to the issue," said an analyst with a foreign securities firm in Shanghai. "It looks like they will just leave it alone, as long as the markets don't become too speculative."
Given the huge volatility of the B shares over the past two weeks, it would appear the threshold of the authorities on the issue is high.
Shenzhen's B shares have risen more than 50 percent since mid-November and Shanghai's B shares are up over 15 percent in the same period, but with huge falls on some days.
Brokers have attributed the rapid rises and falls largely to rumours that the Beijing authorities plan either to allow domestic investors to buy B shares or to reaffirm the ban.
"The Beijing ban is there, but Beijing knows it is unenforceable," said another brokerage analyst. "And the brokers want local people to buy B shares because turnover would be so low without them."
A broker in Shenzhen said many domestic securities firms had opened B share trading accounts in Hong Kong, while Chinese individuals encounter no problem in opening the accounts, particularly in Shenzhen, which is just across the border from the wealthy British colony.
B-share trading is supposed to be restricted to people with foreign passports or residents of Hong Kong and Taiwan, but the Shenzhen and Shanghai exchanges are interpreting the rules with great flexibility, analysts said.
"The Shanghai exchange handled it in an interesting way," said a broker in Shanghai.
"A couple of months ago they required all B-share trading account holders to re-register, but all that they required was that people present a passport or a copy of a passport that didn't even have to be theirs," he said.
Analysts have said the basic reason for the ban on domestic investors holding B shares is to prevent an outflow of foreign exchange as foreign investors sell their holdings to local people.
But the announcement on Thursday that the Chinese yuan would become fully convertible on the current account this Sunday was taken as a sign by traders that the day was approaching when the ban on B share trading by locals would be dropped.
The Shenzhen B-share index rose 5.35 percent to 142.71 points on Friday on the news, brokers said. Shanghai B shares closed up 1.14 percent to 53.421.
"It is pretty hard for the securities regulators to curb the inflow of money from mainland Chinese into the Shenzhen B market because Hong Kong dollars are so easily available here due to the proximity to Hong Kong," said one Shenzhen analyst.
"I believe more and more Chinese will put their hard currency into the market after mid-1997 when Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule," he added.
Shipping boss Tung Chee-hwa emerged as the most vocally pro-China contender for Hong Kong's leadership on Friday as a Beijing-controlled body wrapped up a three-day quiz of three men vying to rule Hong Kong after 1997.
The Selection Committee of 400 rich or influential Hong Kong people, who were picked under China's close supervision, will now ponder. But many believe Tung is the preordained winner.
The committee meets again on December 11 to make its choice.
Tung shot off a volley of comments and answers to committee members underlining his loyalty to China, attacked the politics of British Governor Chris Patten, and even threw in a snub about the inauspicious qualities of Patten's official residence.
Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule at the stroke of midnight next June 30 after more than 150 years as a British colony.
Beijing is turning the territory of 6.3 million people into a Special Administrative Region of communist China, pledging no change to its thriving capitalist system for 50 years.
The committee's choice of a chief executive to succeed Patten was obvious, the pro-business Economic Journal said on Friday. "We get the feeling that winner and loser in the chief executive contest is already decided," it said.
Tung Chee-hwa's answers were all "politically correct", showing a "cautious nature" that suited the taste of Beijing and many Hong Kong people, the journal said.
In his remarks, Tung jumped to China's defence and attacked an attempt by Britain this week to introduce a pre-emptive soft subversion law before the 1997 handover aimed at ensuring no China-style jailings of dissidents take place after 1997.
"It is up to the future government to draw up its own law on these matters," Tung said. "The Special Administrative Region government will have to review these issues after the handover."
Tung, 59, who quit as head of the Orient Overseas shipping empire to bid for Hong Kong's leadership, has been tipped as China's favoured son since Chinese President Jiang Zemin singled him out for a handshake in Beijing in January.
In the three days of committee interrogation, much of which was broadcast live, Tung's rivals -- former chief judge Ti Liang Yang and entrepreneur Peter Woo -- also gave voice to patriotism but were glaringly less pro-China in their utterances.
Yang made clear he would not always bend with Beijing's wind or whim, but would follow the letter of Hong Kong law.
"I'm for Yang because he's for justice," said a Hong Kong Chinese resident listening to the sessions on the radio.
"He's a fair man. He's not a merchant," he said, summing up a widely held view of the contest.
Tung said Hong Kong might have to make sacrifices if China fell victim to political or diplomatic sanctions.
He stressed Chinese cultural values and patriotic education and the need for less red tape, speedier land development approvals, a sell-off of low-price public housing to tenants, and setting an example of Chinese reunification for Taiwan to follow later.
"I found it abominable...I found him more colonial than the colonial government," said legislator Tsang Kin-shing.
Tsang, whose Democratic Party is boycotting the leadership contest, said Tung's rivals were no better. "They are all foul grass growing from a foul jar," he said, using a colloquial Chinese insult.
Tung also said he would not like to move into the governor's traditional residence next year. "I have heard the Government House is crowded and the fung shui is not good."
Many Hong Kong Chinese cling to fung shui, "wind and water", a mixture of science and superstition that people use to chart their lives, birthdays, weddings, business and burials.
The Czech Republic could have a 50,000- 100,000 tonne sugar surplus from this year's campaign but little will be exported due to high local production costs and a world sugar surplus, sugar experts say.
The Agriculture Ministry said the state would buy some surplus sugar for strategic reserves and would prepare indirect support for exporters but it ruled out direct export subsidies.
Industry sources varied in their assesment of potential foreign markets but agreed producers will try to sell as much as they can at home as world prices were considerably lower.
"It is expected that the surplus will be up to 80,000 to 100,000 tonnes," said Eva Divisova of the ministry, adding that total production will be between 520,000 and 540,000 tonnes raw value after last campaign's 460,035 tonnes.
She added net sugar exports should be about 4,000 tonnes. Divisova declined to say how much the state would buy for its reserves, nor what the reserves are, saying this was secret.
"State reserves will be filled, other parts will have to be exported. But it is very difficult to get to foreign markets," Divisova added.
She said Slovakia was not importing due to higher output. There are payment problems with Ukraine and Russia, but former Yugoslav countries were potentially interesting, she said.
Director of trading firm Agrointernational Petr Prochazka believed the surplus would total 50,000-80,000 tonnes, most of which would stay in the Czech Republic.
"The surplus will not be so dramatic...There are quite good yields but the harvest is going slowly due to bad weather. A forecast freeze and subsequent warming will limit output."
"Producers will not want to export...(because of low prices) Those who can store it, will, he told Reuters, adding he believed the state could buy up to 20,000 tonnes for reserves.
Secretary of the Sugar Refiners' Association Vladimir Ulrich also saw a 50,000-80,000-tonne surplus but said it could be partially swallowed by the state and the elasticity of domestic consumption. But he stressed that financial costs of storing sugar could push producers to sell at any price.
Ulrich said local prices have dropped to 12-15 crowns per kilo from 16 earlier in the year. The market is protected by a 68.4 percent tariff, which will drop next year to 65 percent.
"We are pushed from two sides -- the domestic surplus and low price on the world market. If prices drop further, other sugar could get here," Ulrich told Reuters.
Breweries could buy up to 10,000 tonnes more than they usually do if prices go below the costs of malt, and citric acid makers could take care of another 10,000 tonnes, Ulrich said.
"There is a hunger for sugar in Bulgaria, Romaina, Ukraine, also in Russia," said Ulrich. He added that Poland, which itself expects to have a sizeable surplus, was also a potential market.
"We also cannot expect to supply the London exchange, because our sugar does not meet the conditions," he noted.
He said Cezch exporters could also look to traditional markts like Saudi Arabia..."Of course, the price would be poor."
The ministry and Ulrich said the surplus would lead to a smaller sown area next year after 104,115 hectares this year. "I believe the optimal area for next few years would be between 90,000 and 94,000 hectares," Ulrich said.
From free gift wrapping and valet parking to sweepstakes and private scheduled visits with Santa, retail malls are pulling out the stops to attract customers during the key holiday season.
So far their efforts, as well as a strong economy, appear to be yielding results, as mall operators said they saw double-digit sales increases on Black Friday, the name retailers have given to the day after Thanskgiving.
"I think overall, consistently across the board, we're seeing sales up anywhere from high single digits to low double digits for the day," said Robert Michaels, president of General Growth Properties Inc., which owns and operates 120 retail centers across the country.
Traffic patterns varied at different malls, with some reporting traffic up by close to 10 percent, while others saw traffic flat. But unlike last year, when there were many window shoppers, this year, people were buying.
"Everyone was browsing last year," said Sarah Liddle, associate marketing director of Newport Centre Mall, in Jersey City, N.J. "Everyone was a little skeptical about what they were going to buy. Yesterday, it was unbelievable how many (shopping) bags were going through this mall."
That appeared to be the case throughout the country, according to Billie Scott, spokeswoman for Simon DeBartolo Group Inc, which owns Newport Centre and owns or has an interest in 185 properties, most of them malls and retail centers.
"For the most part, (according to) the people I talked to, traffic was at last year's level or above, but I guess the big difference is people were buying," she said.
The publicly traded companies that own many malls -- and are known as real estate investment trusts (REIT) -- do not have as much of their revenue directly generated during the holiday shopping season as retailers. But a portion of rents are based on a percentage of sales, and the season will also help set rents in the future.
"The high sales in the fourth quarter justify the rent the rest of the year," said Lee Schalop, an analyst who follows REITs at J.P. Morgan Securities.
To attract shopppers, malls offer features ranging from free gift wrapping to giveaways including $1,000 shopping sprees.
At the Woodfield Mall in Schaumburg, Illinois, a northwest suburb of Chicago, Santa is available for five-minute prescheduled visits during the hour before the shopping center opens. Woodfield is owned by Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based Taubman Centers Inc., which also said sales appeared strong to kick off the holiday shopping season.
"Everything we're hearing is positive," said Taubman spokeswoman Karen Mac Donald. "Everyone is saying they had a good day yesterday. They were up."
At the Paramus Park mall in Paramus, N.J., prizes are being given away each week, with a grand prize of a trip to New York and dinner with the Rockettes.
"It's an effort to distinguish ourselves," said Kathy Lickteig, spokeswoman for Columbia, Maryland-based Rouse Co., which owns Paramus Park. "At this time of the year, it is very important to have something special to attract shoppers."
