China's President Jiang Zemin granted a rare meeting to members of the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday in a campaign aimed at boosting ties with the American Congress.
A beaming Jiang was shown on state television receiving the 22 representatives -- the biggest U.S. congressional delegation ever to visit China.
"Improving Sino-U.S. relations and developing them on a healthy basis is in the interests of both countries," he said. "I had very good discussions with President (Bill) Clinton in Manila in November and we reached some important understandings.
"The Chinese side is willing to grasp the present opportunities and, along with the United States, to reduce difficulties between our two countries."
Beijing and Washington have been trying to mend ties that were badly strained by a series of disputes over the past two years ranging from Taiwan to trade and human rights.
In Manila, Jiang and Clinton agreed on an exchange of presidential visits in 1997 and 1998 that would be the first since President George Bush came to China in early 1989.
Analysts said China's communist leadership -- and Jiang in particular -- were eager to boost ties with the Congress, fearing that Beijing had suffered by relying too heavily on its links to the U.S. administration in the past.
They noted that the Beijing believes it was led astray by administration assurances that Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui would not be permitted to visit the United States in 1995.
Congress pushed hard for Lee and the landmark private visit was eventually allowed to proceed, a decision that enraged Beijing.
China turned its anger on the island, which it considers a rebel province, first breaking off a semi-official channel for talks with Taipei and later holding missile tests near the island in March last year.
Jim Kolbe, the Arizona Republican who is leading the congressional delegation, told reporters shortly before his meeting with Jiang on Tuesday that Chinese leaders had recognised the need for contacts with Congress.
"The Chinese are becoming much more skilled and have much more contact" with Congress, he said.
Members of the congressional group told reporters that human rights had come up in discussions with other Chinese officials and would be raised during the meeting with Jiang.
Jiang met a U.S. Senate group led by minority leader Tom Daschle last November.
Jiang, who is known to be fond of Western pop songs, was said to have entertained that group with some of his repertoire. It was unknown if the Kolbe delegation would be treated to the same welcome.
Computer makers are expected to report solid fourth-quarter earnings in what is normally the strongest quarter of the year, but the stronger dollar will hurt some big systems makers.
Despite all the negative reports from computer retailers about lackluster personal computer sales, analysts said most U.S. PC makers -- with the exception of Apple Computer Inc. and AST Research Inc. -- will show strong sales growth, fuelled by hefty corporate buying.
Apple is the first to report, with first-quarter results late Wednesday.
Earlier this month, Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple forecast it would report an operating loss for its first quarter ended last month, citing weak U.S. demand for its Performa consumer PC and continued shortages of notebook computers.
"Most of the indications are that business throughout the (PC) sector, other than Apple, was strong," said Dean Witter analyst Eugene Glazer. "With all the negative comments you are hearing from retailers, some of that market was going to the direct marketers" like Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway 2000 Inc.
Analysts said the world's largest PC maker, Compaq Computer Corp., was likely to report strong earnings, especially after semiconductor giant Intel Corp. reported a blowout fourth quarter, surpassing Wall Street predictions.
Compaq gets about 20 percent or so of its revenues via store sales to consumers and the rest of its revenues from sales to corporate customers, which were booming.
"The consumer business didn't hurt them," said Jim Poyner, an Oppenheimer &amp; Co. analyst. "Dell and Compaq are benefiting from the same forces, the transition to the Pentium Pro (chip), a hot notebook (computer) market and progress in the server (network computer) business."
On the larger systems side, companies like International Business Machines Corp., Digital Equipment Corp. and Unisys Corp. are expected to see some negative impact from a stronger dollar overseas and sluggish sales in Europe, while business in the United States remains strong.
"Business is quite good in the U.S.," said Jay Stevens, another Dean Witter analyst. "Where it's slower, or where the concerns have been expressed, is overseas, mostly in Europe."
Digital is expected to report a slight profit as it slowly recovers from sales force problems in Europe and a money-losing PC business. PCs are expected to break even.
"I think it will be a good quarter," said Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich.
Analysts said that they expected IBM's earnings to be a bit better than expected, but that its expenses for job cuts will be greater than previous quarters.
"Europe remains a slower grower, which has led to a number of organisational and planned efficiency changes," said John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst. IBM reports its earnings next Tuesday.
Software giant Microsoft Corp. Thursday unveiled the highly anticipated version of its next-generation software for office computers, called Office 97.
Office 97 -- a package of software that includes popular programmes such as Microsoft Word for word processing, the Excel spreadsheet programme, Access database software and the PowerPoint presentation programme -- has many new features, including document collaboration and the ability to jump seamlessly from a document or spreadsheet to the Internet.
"Office is a centrepiece of Microsoft's Internet strategy," Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates said at a New York news conference.
The software giant, which has 55 million users of Microsoft Office applications, said it had already received advance orders from nearly 10,000 retail outlets for Office 97. The software became available in stores Thursday.
The company said 3 million copies had been sold through corporate licensing agreements.
Industry analysts noted, however, that many large business users of Microsoft's Office software have not upgraded to the Windows 95 or Windows NT operating systems required by Office 97.
Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., said more than 80 percent of the improvements in Office were a result of customer feedback.
"Our investments in understanding the needs of customers and our continued ability to deliver exciting enhancements are the cornerstone of Office's ongoing success," Gates said.
Gates launched the software at a media event at New York's Lincoln Centre.
Microsoft dominates the office suite category of software, with a 90 percent market share, according to International Data Corp., a market research firm based in Framingham, Mass.
But it faces increasingly aggressive competition from Canada's Corel Corp. and International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus unit and its SmartSuite software.
Corel, which uses WordPerfect word-processing software as the core of its office software, made a significant dent in Microsoft's retail market share in the second half of last year, according to industry analysts.
"While SmartSuite and Corel are eating away at things like price and Internet features, Microsoft's message to corporations is, 'Guys, it's the ease of use and the cost of ownership,'" said Eric Brown, a Forrester Research analyst.
Microsoft said with some of its new features in Office 97, such as the Office Assistant, users can easily get answers from a built-in software "guru" without burdening their information systems managers. Tools such as Network Installation Wizard, Office Resource Kit and others make it easier for information system managers to install and manage the software.
"I'd not be surprised if we reduced the cost of ownership by one-third to one-half," said Dennis Tevlin, Microsoft's director of product marketing, desktop applications.
Since Sun Microsystems Inc., International Business Machines Corp., and others have introduced lower-cost network computers, one feature they have touted is the low cost of ownership of these new devices vs. the higher cost of maintaining PCs and their hefty software.
Office is a huge cash generator for Microsoft. Its desktop applications group, which is dominated by Office, is expected to bring in about $5 billion of the company's fiscal 1997 revenues, which are estimated at slightly over $10 billion, according to Wall Street analysts.
The standard edition of Office 97 for upgrades from earlier versions of the software has an estimated retail price of $209. It will sell for $249 for upgrading from non-Microsoft suites and $499 for new users.
One new component in Office 97 is called Microsoft Outlook, a desktop information manager. Outlook helps users manage information, track documents and communicate.
By integrating e-mail, scheduling, contact management, task management and a module for tracking documents and events, Outlook acts as a central "hub" for Office 97.
Gates said one of his favourite features of Outlook is its e-mail filtering capability, which enables him to immediately read and answer important e-mail amid the flood of e-mail messages he receives daily from around the world.
Other features include Internet technologies that make it easy for users to create "hyperlinks" linking their documents to a World Wide Web site, for example. Users can also search Office and Web-style documents on a corporate network and they can navigate documents using the familiar tools of a Web browser.
"We like to call this activating the Web," Tevlin said. "1996 was the year of the lots of Internet infrastructure products. Office 97 is the first in this new wave of Web applications."
Microsoft's stock gained $1.375 to $86 on Nasdaq.
Software giant Microsoft Corp. Thursday unveiled the highly anticipated version of its next-generation software for office computers, called Office 97.
Office 97 -- a package of software that includes popular programmes such as Microsoft Word for word processing, the Excel spreadsheet programme, Access database software and the PowerPoint presentation programme -- has many new features, including document collaboration and the ability to jump seamlessly from a document or spreadsheet to the Internet.
"Office is a centrepiece of Microsoft's Internet strategy," Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates said at a New York news conference.
The software giant, which has 55 million users of Microsoft Office applications, said it had already received advance orders from nearly 10,000 retail outlets for Office 97. The software became available in stores Thursday.
The company said 3 million copies had been sold through corporate licensing agreements.
Industry analysts noted, however, that many large business users of Microsoft's Office software have not upgraded to the Windows 95 or Windows NT operating systems required by Office 97.
Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., said more than 80 percent of the improvements in Office were a result of customer feedback.
"Our investments in understanding the needs of customers and our continued ability to deliver exciting enhancements are the cornerstone of Office's ongoing success," Gates said.
Gates launched the software at a media event at New York's Lincoln Centre.
Microsoft dominates the office suite category of software, with a 90 percent market share, according to International Data Corp., a market research firm based in Framingham, Mass.
But it faces increasingly aggressive competition from Canada's Corel Corp. and International Business Machines Corp.'s Lotus unit and its SmartSuite software.
Corel, which uses WordPerfect word-processing software as the core of its office software, made a significant dent in Microsoft's retail market share in the second half of last year, according to industry analysts.
"While SmartSuite and Corel are eating away at things like price and Internet features, Microsoft's message to corporations is, 'Guys, it's the ease of use and the cost of ownership,'" said Eric Brown, a Forrester Research analyst.
Microsoft said with some of its new features in Office 97, such as the Office Assistant, users can easily get answers from a built-in software "guru" without burdening their information systems managers. Tools such as Network Installation Wizard, Office Resource Kit and others make it easier for information system managers to install and manage the software.
"I'd not be surprised if we reduced the cost of ownership by one-third to one-half," said Dennis Tevlin, Microsoft's director of product marketing, desktop applications.
Since Sun Microsystems Inc., International Business Machines Corp., and others have introduced lower-cost network computers, one feature they have touted is the low cost of ownership of these new devices vs. the higher cost of maintaining PCs and their hefty software.
Office is a huge cash generator for Microsoft. Its desktop applications group, which is dominated by Office, is expected to bring in about $5 billion of the company's fiscal 1997 revenues, which are estimated at slightly over $10 billion, according to Wall Street analysts.
The standard edition of Office 97 for upgrades from earlier versions of the software has an estimated retail price of $209. It will sell for $249 for upgrading from non-Microsoft suites and $499 for new users.
One new component in Office 97 is called Microsoft Outlook, a desktop information manager. Outlook helps users manage information, track documents and communicate.
By integrating e-mail, scheduling, contact management, task management and a module for tracking documents and events, Outlook acts as a central "hub" for Office 97.
Gates said one of his favourite features of Outlook is its e-mail filtering capability, which enables him to immediately read and answer important e-mail amid the flood of e-mail messages he receives daily from around the world.
Other features include Internet technologies that make it easy for users to create "hyperlinks" linking their documents to a World Wide Web site, for example. Users can also search Office and Web-style documents on a corporate network and they can navigate documents using the familiar tools of a Web browser.
"We like to call this activating the Web," Tevlin said. "1996 was the year of the lots of Internet infrastructure products. Office 97 is the first in this new wave of Web applications."
Microsoft's stock gained $1.50 to $86.125 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq.
America Online Inc. was hit with two more lawsuits Wednesday from frustrated subscribers, and the world's largest online service also suffered a computer glitch that led it to shut down half of its system for nearly four hours.
Late Wednesday, AOL's system suffered a partial outage when system problems led it to shut down half of its system from 3:45 p.m. EST until about 7:30 p.m. to find the problem.
"The system was able to accommodate 124,000 subscribers," an AOL spokeswoman said. Normally AOL, which has more than 7 million subscribers, accommodates about 258,000 users simultaneously.
The problem was with an interface board in a router device, which manages the flow of data in a network, the company said. AOL said its network was back to full capacity by 8 p.m. EST.
The spokeswoman said the outage was not related to the onslaught of member usage since AOL switched to unlimited use for a flat rate of $19.95 a month.
AOL suffered another much more massive network outage in August last year, when the entire AOL network was down for almost 19 hours due to a software glitch.
That outage drew front-page headlines around the world, as millions of users were unable to access electronic mail, the Internet, and a variety of services and publications online, for almost a day.
While AOL said the latest network outage was not due to the influx of users, the current demand for its service is clearly testing the patience of some subscribers, who have begun filing lawsuits against AOL.
On Wednesday, two more lawsuits were disclosed, both filed in New York state court this week, claiming breach of contract, deceptive trade practices and false advertising.
Those suits came on the heels of a class-action lawsuit filed Tuesday in Los Angeles on behalf of five subscribers, seeking damages for what they call fraudulent and malicious representation.
In addition, at least two state attorneys general have confirmed they are in discussions with America Online, seeking some resolution to complaints they have received from consumers about the continuing problem of network access.
New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco and Wisconsin state Attorney General Jim Doyle are in discussions with AOL, spokesmen said.
Since AOL switched its more than 7 million members to unlimited access for $19.95 a month, its network has been deluged by subscribers, many of whom cannot log onto the system during peak evening hours or on weekends.
The spokeswoman for the Dulles, Va.-based company could not immediately comment on the New York lawsuits, but on Tuesday, AOL said it was upgrading its network and that it understood its users' frustration.
"Although we understand the frustration some members are experiencing ... the average AOL member gets more value under unlimited pricing than ever before," AOL said in response to the Los Angeles lawsuit.
Many Wall Street and industry analysts said they are not worried about the lawsuits, which they consider frivolous.
America Online Inc. was hit with two more lawsuits Wednesday when two New York law firms said they filed class actions on behalf of their clients and AOL members frustrated with the world's largest online service.
The two lawsuits, both filed in New York state court this week, come on the heels of a class-action lawsuit filed Tuesday in Los Angeles on behalf of five subscribers, seeking damages for what they call fraudulent and malicious representation.
In addition, at least two state attorney generals have confirmed they are in discussions with America Online, seeking some resolution to complaints they have received from consumers about the continuing problem of network access.
New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco and Wisconsin state Attorney General Jim Doyle are in discussions with AOL, spokesmen said.
Since AOL switched its more than $7 million members to unlimited access for $19.95 a month, its network has been deluged by subscribers, many of whom cannot log onto the system during peak evening hours or on weekends.
A spokeswoman for the Dulles, Va.-based company could not immediately comment on the New York lawsuits, but on Tuesday, AOL said it was upgrading its network and that it understood its users' frustration.
"Although we understand the frustration some members are experiencing ... the average AOL member gets more value under unlimited pricing than ever before," AOL said in response to the Los Angeles lawsuit.
One of the New York lawsuits, filed by the law firm of Goodkind Labaton Rudoff &amp; Sucharow LLP, represents four AOL members.
"Anyone who has tried to access AOL and its Internet service recently knows there is an interminably long wait and that the company is not providing what it has promised to its subscribers," attorney Edward Labaton said in a statement.
"It is particularly damaging to the millions of those who have been promised unlimited access on AOL for $19.95 per month and cannot benefit from the contractual obligation America Online has with them," he continued.
The lawsuit claims breach of contract, unjust enrichment, deceptive trade practices and false advertising by AOL. An AOL spokeswoman said she had not yet seen the lawsuit.
The other lawsuit was filed Monday by Wechsler Harwood Halebian and Feffer in New York, representing one user, Ezra Graber. This lawsuit seeks to recover damages due to breach of contract for failure to provide services.
Peter Zinman, an attorney for Goodkind Labaton Rudoff &amp; Sucharow, said their lawsuit is separate from the one filed in Los Angeles but that all the cases could be consolidated into one class action.
"I would predict that there would be many suits filed all over the country," said Zinman.
VLSI Technology Inc expects flat to lower revenues for the 1997 first quarter compared to the 1996 fourth quarter's net revenues of $183.6 million, a spokesman for the company said.
Allen Marcow, VLSI's vice president of corporate communications, confirmed that company executives had warned analysts in a conference call about the outlook on revenues.
"We did not see a lot of Q1 growth in revenues," Marcow told Reuters, referring to comments made to analysts.  
Marcow also said VLSI expects to see continued improvements from expense controls. He said gross profit margins would improve in 1997 due to a changing product mix.
Analysts said the Friday afternoon conference call heightened concern about VLSI's fourth quarter results. Even before the call, worry about the data had caused the stock to fall sharply throughout the day.
VLSI shares were down 6-3/8 to 16-7/8 at 1453 EST/1953 GMT. The stock was the most active Nasdaq issue, with nearly 15 millions shares changing hands.  
The sell-off began slowly this morning, then picked up steam ahead of the conference call, which began at 1300 EST/1800 GMT.
The sharp decline in VLSI's stock followed the release of the company's results for the 1996 fourth quarter. The release came after the stock market close Thursday.
The company reported a loss of $1.38 a share after a pre-announced charge for closing a factory. On an operating basis, earnings of $0.17 a share were in line with the First Call consensus.  
But market sources said the report fell short of Wall Street's informal, "whispered" expectations for the fourth quarter, traditionally a strong one for the company.  
Merrill Lynch analyst Tom Kurlak, who listened in on the conference call, said he expected analysts' consensus estimate on VLSI earnings for fiscal 1997 to fall in the coming days to around $1.20 per share.
Kurlak said two main negatives drove the stock down Friday: projected flatness in first quarter revenues, and a delayed reaction to the Wednesday resignation of VLSI Chief Financial Officer Gregrory Hinckley.
Hinckley left to join Mentor Graphics Corp as finance chief and chief operating officer. He was replaced at VSLI by Bala Iyer, the company's former controller.  
Kurlak also said product orders for the company had declined in the fourth quarter. "We are not setting up for momentum in the first half," he said, referring to the company's sales momentum heading into 1997.
On a more upbeat note, Kurlak said he expected the company to see gross margins rise slightly in the first quarter to around 42.2 percent from 41.5 percent in the fourth quarter.
As a result, the analyst said he still forecasts that earnings will grow sequentially in the first quarter to $0.20 a share, compared to operating earnings of $0.17 reported for the forth quarter.
International Business Machines Corp. is expected to report solid fourth-quarter earnings Tuesday, but analysts expect the stronger dollar will hurt the computer giant's profits.
The Armonk, N.Y.-based company will report earnings after the stock market closes, the first time it has done so in recent memory.
Wall Street analysts are predicting earnings of $3.13 a share to $4.32 per share, with a consensus of $3.88 a share, according to First Call, which tracks analyst estimates.
A year ago, IBM earned $3.09 a share, or $1.7 billiion, including special charges, in the fourth quarter.
"I think it will be a good quarter," said Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich.
"I'm not looking for a blowout quarter," Milunovich said, adding that the dollar strengthened in the fourth quarter and that IBM could see as much as a 25-cent-per-share negative impact on earnings from currency fluctuations.
The earnings report comes amid mixed results from the computer industry for what is traditionally its biggest quarter of the year.
Apple Computer Inc. reported a bigger-than-expected loss, but Sun Microsystems Inc. had stronger-than-anticipated second-quarter earnings and Digital Equipment Corp. reported a slightly better-than-expected profit in its second quarter.
Analysts also expect IBM to report bigger expenses in the fourth quarter for its restructuring, which it no longer writes off as a charge. In the third quarter, IBM had restructuring costs of about $200 million for employee buyouts.
"They will have an expense for restructuring, and it could be twice as much as the September quarter," said Dean Witter analyst Jay Stevens.
Analysts said IBM's employees in Europe have been much slower to accept its buyout plans. John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst, predicts IBM will have costs of about $700 million in 1997 for organisational changes in Europe.
"Europe remains a slow grower, which has led to a number of organisational and planned efficiency changes, which we expect will require over $700 million in 1997," Jones said in a report. He said these expenses are included in his 1997 earnings estimate of $11.20 a share.
For 1996, analysts expect IBM to earn between $10.30 to $11.50 a share, with a consensus of $11.05, according to First Call.
Analysts said sales of IBM's midrange computers, the AS/400, should post growth of about 10 percent and that there should be a big improvement in RS/6000 workstations.
IBM will host its quarterly analyst meeting and conference call sometime after its earnings are released late Tuesday.
Analysts said the company was releasing its earnings after the close to avoid the recent volatility in its stock -- which has climbed or fallen as much as $10 on the days it reports earnings -- during its conference call with analysts.
IBM stock was down $1 at $164.50 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
International Business Machines Corp is expected to report solid fourth quarter earnings on Tuesday, but some negative impact from currency is also expected. It will report earnings after the U.S. stock market closes, for the first time in recent memory.
According to First Call, Wall Street estimates range from $3.13 to $4.32, with a consensus of $3.88 a share, versus reported earnings of $3.09 a year ago, including charges.
"I think it will be a good quarter," said Steve Milunovich, a Morgan Stanley analyst.  
"I'm not looking for a blowout quarter," Milunovich added, adding that the U.S. dollar strengthened in the fourth quarter, and that IBM could see as much as a $0.25 negative impact on earnings from currency fluctuations.
Analysts also expect IBM to have bigger expenses this quarter for its restructuring, which it does not write off as a charge anymore. In the third quarter, IBM had restructuring costs of about $200 million for employee buyouts.
"They will have an expense for restructuring and it could be twice as much as the September quarter," said Jay Stevens, a Dean Witter analyst.  
Analysts said IBM's employees in Europe have been much slower to accept its buyout plans and John Jones, a Salomon Brothers analyst, is expecting IBM will have costs of about $700 million in 1997 for organizational changes in Europe.
"Europe remains a slow grower which has led to a number of organizational and planned efficiency changes, which we expect will require over $700 million in 1997," Jones said in a report. He said these expenses are included in his 1997 earnings estimates of $11.20 a share.
For 1996, analysts expect IBM to earn between $10.30 to $11.50 a share, according to First Call.  
Analysts said that there are several bright spots in IBM's fourth quarter, with computer services and personal computers among the stand outs. Even though industry PC sales at the consumer/retail level have been sluggish and disappointing, analysts said that IBM saw strong quarterly growth in PCs.
"PCs had probably in excess of 25 percent growth, with decent profits," said Milunovich.
IBM also had strong sales of its new models of mainframe computers, but Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial analyst, said that IBM did not sell out the new systems, as some had previously forecast.  
Analysts said that sales of its midrange computers, the AS/400, should post about 10 percent growth, and added they expect a big improvement in RS/6000 workstations.
The Armonk, N.Y.-based computer giant will host its quarterly analyst meeting/conference call sometime after its earnings are released late Tuesday.
Analysts said that the computer giant is releasing its earnings after the close to avoid volatility in its stock, which in recent quarters has climbed or fallen as much as $10 on the days it reports earnings, during its conference call with analysts.
America Online Inc., beset with network overload problems and angry subcribers, said Thursday it will spend even more than planned to shore up its network, amid another soaring subscriber growth report.
The Dulles, Va.-based company has experienced growing pains in the United States in the form of service outages -- including a partial outage of nearly four hours Wednesday -- since it switched its members to unlimited usage for $19.95 a month in December.
The largest online services company in the world said it will now spend $350 million to upgrade its network, instead of $250 million as previously planned, to add new modems and build an 180,000 square foot data centre. It also will add new customer service representatives and halt its nationwide television advertising campaign for the time being.
AOL said the current usage of its network was exceeding its most aggressive forecasts, much of it due to the unlimited pricing plan. In December, its usage skyrocketed to more than 100 million hours, up from 60 million hours in November.
In his monthly letter to members, AOL Chairman Steve Case addressed the problems.
"We all dial in from our homes at night, just like you do, so we see the problems firsthand. And we're working day and night to fix them," he wrote.
Case also made an unusual plea to AOL members, many of whom are clogging up the system by staying on all day or for long periods of time, to cut back on their usage.
"There is something you can do to help and that is to moderate your own use of AOL a bit, during our peak evening periods," Case said. "Use AOL as much as you want during the day, but try to show some restraint at night during the next few months when we're in this transitional mode."
Peter Krasilovsky, an analyst with Arlen Communications in Bethesda, Md., said he thought the network problems would be solved in about three months.
"The letter was very contrite, and as usual Steve's communications are very good, it was just overdue," Krasilovsky said. "It's a difficult economics issue, you don't want to overbuild and be stuck with a bunch of extra modems and extra capacity."
But at the rate AOL is growing, it may need all the 150,000 modems it is adding.
AOL said that its worldwide subscriber growth, fuelled by the unlimited plan, boomed to more than 8 million members, with 500,000 new members in December alone, a record. AOL added 1.2 million members in the quarter ended December.
AOL also said its local services launched in Britain, Canada, Germany and France had grown to more than half a million, since they were launched in the past 14 months.
Wall Street was impressed by the faster-than-expected growth in U.S. membership, fuelling a $3.375 jump in AOL's stock to $41.50, most of it at the end of the day.
Analysts said the good news was a much-needed boost for AOL, which was hit this week by three class-action lawsuits, by angry members frustrated by their inability to get online.
Their allegations range from breach of contract for failure to provide services to false advertising. Attorneys general in several states confirmed they were in talks with AOL to seek some remedy to the growing consumer complaints.
To add to AOL's problems, late Wednesday afternoon, it had to shut down half its system when it noticed around 3 p.m. EST that more people could not sign on. The system ran at 50 percent capacity until 7:30 p.m. EST and full capacity was not reached until 8 p.m.
The company said it will sharply reduce the number of mailings of free trial disks, especially to cities where its customers were experiencing the most busy signals.
AOL said that between now and June it planned to increase by 75 percent the current total of 200,000-plus modems in its AOLNet system. More modems will allow more customers to dial in at the same time.
AOL said it will add 600 additional customer support people over the next six months, bringing the total to 4,500.
China vowed on Friday to get tough in its drive to keep banks out of the stock market and accused big financial institutions of fuelling a speculative bubble on the nation's bourses.
State media quoted China's top economic policy maker, Vice Premier Zhu Rongji, as warning bankers that they could go to jail for diverting funds into the stock market.
"We will vigorously seek to uncover any use of funds that are not in company accounts or the use of bank credits for stock market speculation," Zhu told a national banking conference in Beijing on Thursday.
"Those in positions of responsibility will be sacked and in criminal cases we will pursue the offenders under criminal law," he said.
In a commentary alongside the reports of the meeting, the Financial News, a daily published by the central bank, blamed a big rise in share prices last year on institutional speculation.
"Most people believe that a speculative bubble emerged (in the nation's stock markets) at the end of last year," it said.
It blamed this on a diversion of funds from the banking system into the stock market, and added that it was clear this had involved institutional money.
Beijing moved to cool off the heated stock market speculation -- which had pushed one of the main indices up as much as 360 percent -- by warning investors that what goes up must come down, and reminding them that the state would not step in to bail them out.
China also has been trying to keep its state-run banks from fuelling stock market speculation, first by severing their ties to trust companies -- which can put funds in the stock market -- and by making it harder for them to finance stock speculation.
Securities industry officials said the aim was to insulate the banking system from any major setback for the stock market.
"This is aimed at protecting the banking system," said Wang Yun, general manager of the Shanxi Securities Trading Centre in Taiyuan, a regional trading centre for the main bourses in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
"Central government authorities would also prefer to see these funds go to state enterprises," he told the China Securities Bulletin, a Hong Kong-based publication.
But brokers said that while ensuring the health of the banking system was a noble goal, authorities should not drive all institutional money away from the market.
"China now has more individual investors than it had in the past, but the main investors are institutions," said a Beijing-based broker. "If they are driven away, there won't be much turnover left in the market."
The stock of VLSI Technology Inc. took a nose-dive Friday, losing over 25 percent of its value, after projecting that revenues in the 1997 first quarter would be equal to or below the fourth quarter of 1996.
VLSI stock fell $5.875 to close at $17.325 on Nasdaq Friday. More than 19 million shares changed hands, topping the Nasdaq actives list.
The San Jose, Calif.-based high technology company late Thursday reported a loss for the fourth quarter of 1996 of $63.6 million, or $1.38 a share, on revenues of $183.6 million, including a pre-announced charge for closing a factory.
After speaking with analysts, VLSI's vice president of corporate communications Allen Marcow said, "We did not see a lot of first quarter growth in revenues" compared with revenues the 1996 fourth quarter.
In the 1996 first quarter, the quarter that will be used for comparison when 1997 figures are released, VLSI earned $3.2 million, or 7 cents a share, on revenues of $167.7 million.
VLSI appears to be facing competition or other problems in three of its four business groups, said C.B. Lee, an analyst at Hancock Institutional Equity Services.
Problem areas are computing, hurt by the recent sales slowdown at a key customer Apple Computer Inc.; digital entertainment where it faces stiff competition from SGS-Thomson, and the Compass software unit.
The key exception is VLSI's wireless communications chip business, which remains strong, Lee said.
Merrill Lynch analyst Tom Kurlak said the stock decline was also a delayed reaction to the Wednesday resignation of VLSI Chief Financial Officer Gregrory Hinckley.
Hinckley left to join Mentor Graphics Corp. as finance chief and chief operating officer. He was replaced at VSLI by Bala Iyer, the company's former controller.
The San Jose, Calif.-based company is a maker of high-end Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) used in communications, digital entertainment and, to a declining extent, in personal computers.
For several years, the company has been undergoing a transition out of the computer chipset business and into more profitable areas such as communications and TV set-top boxes.
China's major state banks reported profits last year -- some sharply higher than in 1995 -- and analysts said on Monday this showed they were beginning to act like commercial banks elsewhere.
Fees from credit cards and electronic banking services were drawing in new income while loans were being extended with greater care in limiting risk, they said.
However, the results probably disguised the banking system's huge pile of bad debts from past loans, and writeoffs -- either by the banks or the state itself -- were likely in the years ahead, they said.
"The big banks are gradually being turned into real commercial banks and making loans on a commercial basis," said an official at the Industrial and Commercial Bank in Shenzhen.
"There is a gradual reduction in (lending) risk," he said, adding that banks were also cutting costs through electronic payment systems and looking for new sources of income.
That view was shared by other Chinese bankers.
"There are more controls on lending throughout the banking system," said an official with the Everbright Bank.
China's banks once were viewed more as the financial arm of the government, extending loans to enterprises that needed funds regardless of whether they would ever repay.
Banks are now encouraged to make loans that will return a profit while state development banks have been set up to help sectors seen as vital to government interests.
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China -- the bank with the widest exposure in domestic industry -- said its profits surged to 14.5 billion yuan ($1.7 billion) last year from 4.6 billion yuan in 1995.
The Bank of China earned 8.2 billion yuan and the China Construction Bank made 2.76 billion yuan, although neither gave comparative figures. The Agricultural Bank said it had a sharp rise in rise in profits in percentage terms.
Bankers said the removal of an interest rate subsidy on long-term deposits and two interest rate cuts during the year fuelled bank profits.
The rate cuts not only helped ailing state companies to repay loans that had already been extended but they widened the spread between the cost of funds and the interest earned on loans.
"The spread has widened to about three percentage points from less than one point," said Beijing University economist Xiao Zhuoji.
"This has also helped the state banks."
But foreign financial specialists said there was still a relatively low return on assets and one of the key concerns was the extent of the bad loans of the past.
"No one really knows the extent of the bad debts in the banking system," said a foreign financial specialist in Beijing.
The U.S. based rating agency Moody's Investors Service said in a report at the weekend that the banks would be insolvent if their loan values were written down to reflect repayment problems, but resolution of the issue would require a complete restructuring of state industry and recapitalistion of the banks.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
(Corrects by deleting the fourth paragraph, so that the story will reflect that at no point did Giering blame AT&amp;T for tax issues that NCR faces as an independent company.)
NCR Corp eked out a small profit in the fourth quarter of 1996 and saw healthy gains in year-over-year profit margins but hopes of matching computer industry growth rates remain a long way off, executives said.
In a conference call with analysts and a phone interview after the call, NCR Chief Financial Officer John Giering said profits are weighed down by a whopping 75 percent tax rate.
Giering said NCR was unlikely to bring its tax levels down to resemble industry norms of 35 to 40 percent before 1999. 
He said his goal was to bring the company's U.S. operations to breakeven in 1997 in terms of profitablity. NCR is already profitable in its overseas operations, which accounted for half of its $7 billion in 1996 revenues.
Besides slashing the company's tax rate, the NCR executive said the company's primary goal was to see a 9 to 12 percent growth rate from core operations over the next several years.
Giering said he expected NCR to reach gross profit margins in the mid-30 percent range within three years.  
In 1996 results released earlier Tuesday, gross margins for the year rose to 28.1 percent from 1995's 21.8 percent.
Giering said profits remain small but tax liabilities are very large, hence the high effective rate. AT&amp;T absorbed much of the potential benefit from operating loss carry-forwards when NCR was still a subsidiary, he said.
On balance, AT&amp;T relieved NCR of more than $3 billion in net losses since 1993, leaving NCR's balance sheet remarkably clean prior to its spin-off as a separate company this month.
NCR said it ended 1996 with $1.2 billion in cash and debt of only $76 billion.  
"Right now (the tax rate) is in the 75 percent range," Giering told Reuters, "I look at this as a 1997 phenonmon."
He estimated that the tax rate would come down to roughly 50 percent in 1998 on the way to the 35 to 40 percent level expected in 1999. "Clearly we need to have more income in the U.S. to turn that number around," Giering said.
The company may be aided in its goal of balancing the contribution of its U.S. and international operations by trends in top-line revenue growth.  
Giering told analysts that the 1996 revenues for core businesses, excluding mass-market PCs and the entry level server businesses it is exiting, grew 9 percent in the Americas, but declined one percent in Europe and 3 percent in the Asia/Pacific region.
NCR does not break out its revenues in dollar terms.
The CFO said his primary goals was to ensure that "international operations are really paying their full share in terms of all the costs incurred on their on behalf."  
He said one of the anomalies NCR is working hard to reconcile is that many of its corporate functions are domiciled in the United States, which made sense as a unit of AT&amp;T but now hurts NCR as a standalone entity at tax-time.
Deep concern about NCR's financial prospects commbined with the company's insecure position in a computer industry that refuses to stand still has lead Wall Street analysts to be deeply leery of the stock since its public debut.
Of the two analysts following the stock, one of them, Smith Barney's Shao Wang maintains a neutral rating. In an an unusual move on a neutral rated stock, Wang set a target price of $28 on the stock, well below its current price of $38-3/4.
Nonetheless, on the strength of its ongoing turnaround, its limited fourth quarter profits and rising profit margins, NCR stock gained 3-1/8 on Tuesday.
-- E. Auchard, New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
International Business Machines Corp. Tuesday reported fourth-quarter earnings that were slightly better than expected, bolstered by its service business, growth in software sales and tight expense controls.
The world's largest computer maker said net income rose about 18 percent to $2.02 billion in the quarter from $1.71 billion in the 1995 quarter.
Earnings per share rose faster, to $3.93 from $3.09, since IBM had 7 percent fewer shares outstanding in the quarter due to stock buybacks. Wall Street analysts had expected profits of $3.88 a share on average, according to First Call, which tracks earnings estimates.
Analysts and investors said the results looked good, but some said IBM stock might come under profit-taking pressure on Wednesday.
"It's an excellent number, it's an excellent quarter. You really can't say anything bad about it. But I think it may cause a brief period of selling because Wall Street (sells) on that kind of news," said Thom Brown, managing director of Rutherford Brown and Catherwood.
"They were mixed results, software and services were great" and European results were somewhat encouraging, said David Takata, a Gruntal &amp; Co. analyst.
But he said weak mainframe computer revenues were disappointing. Some analysts had been predicting mainframe revenues rose in the quarter due to strong new products.
The Armonk, N.Y.-based computer maker said service revenues jumped 22 percent in the quarter and personal computer sales rose, but sales of mainframes fell and RS/6000 minicomputers were flat.
Software revenues rose 4 percent in the quarter, and hardware sales increased 2 percent.
Revenues overall rose 5.6 percent to $23.14 billion from $21.92 billion. Expenses fell 2 percent in the quarter from the 1995 period, IBM said.
"We showed good growth in the fourth quarter despite a difficult year-over-year comparison, continued weakness in Europe and a greater-than-expected currency impact," IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner said in a statement.
"Although we still face many challenges, IBM is a much different company than it was only a few years ago," he said, noting IBM's services business accounted for 21 percent of revenues at the end of 1996 compared to 13 percent in 1993.
The impact of converting revenues received in foreign currencies into dollars erased three percentage points from the fourth-quarter revenue gain, IBM said. That compared with about a two point positive impact in the 1995 quarter.
Net earnings for the year rose to $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share, from $4.2 billion, or $7.23 a share, in 1995. The 1996 results included a charge for research and development from the acquisition of Lotus Development Corp.
Full-year revenues rose 5.6 percent to $75.95 billion from $71.94 billion.
In a break with tradition, IBM released its results after the stock market closed rather than before the market opened.
Analysts said there was no particular significance to IBM reporting after the close. IBM was trying to avoid the drastic swings in its stock that have come during a conference call with analysts it hosts after the earnings are released.
The stock closed up $1 at $168 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
By region, revenues in North America rose 11 percent to $9.6 billion in the fourth quarter, Asia-Pacific rose 6 percent to $4.3 billion and Latin America gained 4.0 percent to $1.1 billion. Revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa were $8.1 billion, little changed year over year.
International Business Machines Corp. Tuesday reported fourth-quarter earnings that were slightly better than expected, bolstered by its service business, growth in software sales and tight expense controls.
The world's largest computer maker said net income rose 17.6 percent to $2.0 billion in the quarter from $1.7 billion in the year-ago period.
Earnings per share rose faster, to $3.93 from $3.09 a share, since IBM had 7 percent fewer shares outstanding in the quarter due to stock buybacks.
Wall Street analysts had expected earnings of $3.88 a share, on average, according to First Call, which tracks earnings estimates.
While analysts and investors said the results looked good, some said IBM stock might come under profit-taking pressure on Wednesday.
"It's an excellent number, it's an excellent quarter. You really can't say anything bad about it. But I think it may cause a brief period of selling because Wall Street (sells) on that kind of news," said Thom Brown, managing director of Rutherford Brown and Catherwood.
"They were mixed results, software and services were great" and European results were encouraging, said David Takata, a Gruntal &amp; Co. analyst.
But Takata said weak mainframe computer revenues were disappointing. Some analysts had been predicting mainframe revenues rose in the quarter due to strong new products.
The Armonk, N.Y.-based computer maker said service revenues jumped 22 percent in the fourth quarter and personal computer sales rose, but sales of mainframes fell.
Software revenues grew 4 percent in the quarter, and hardware sales grew 2 percent.
Revenues overall rose 5.6 percent to $23.14 billion from $21.92 billion. Expenses fell 2 percent in the quarter from the 1995 period, IBM said.
"We showed good growth in the fourth quarter despite a difficult year-over-year comparison, continued weakness in Europe and a greater-than-expected currency impact," IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner said in a statement.
Currency fluctuations cut revenues by about 3 percentage points in the quarter, compared with about a two point positive impact in the 1995 quarter, IBM said.
Net earnings for the year rose to $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share, from $4.2 billion, or $7.23 a share, in 1995. The 1996 results included a charge for research and development from the acquisition of Lotus Development Corp.
Full-year revenues rose 5.6 percent to $75.95 billion from $71.94 billion.
In a break with tradition, IBM released its results after the stock market closed rather than before the market opened.
Analysts said there was no particular significance to IBM reporting after the close. IBM was trying to avoid the drastic swings in its stock that have come during a conference call with analysts it hosts after the earnings are released.
The stock closed up $1 at $168 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
America Online Inc. is under the gun again, amid growing member outrage due to its network overload and analysts said AOL risks losing the new users it worked hard to gain, once they cannot sign onto the service.
Last week, AOL said it would spend more to upgrade its network, as class action suits were filed against the world's largest online service in at least four states, as users complained that they are not getting the service AOL touted, when it switched members to unlimited usage for a flat fee.
Now, AOL has asked users to cut back on prime-time usage.
"If you sit there and think about it, this is an absolutely unbelievable strategy," said Roger McNamee, a partner at Integral Partners, a fund in Menlo Park, Calif, at a conference last week. "Every customer is now dissatisfied."
Last week, as it tried to address its growing problems, AOL also said it would add customer service personnel, decrease its marketing such as its advertising campaign featuring the music from "The Jetsons" cartoon and mailing out free disks.
Chief Executive Steve Case made an unusual plea to subscribers, asking them to curb usage during peak hours and use "flash sessions" to read and write electronic mail offline.
"It seems like it's an admission that they are overcharging for the service," said Edward Labaton, a partner at Goodkind Labaton Rudoff &amp; Sucharow, one of the law firms that has filed a class action suit against AOL in New York.
"If you are an AOL user, you know it's a lottery now. The chances of getting online during peak hours are as good as your chances of getting four numbers in the lottery," he said.
Since AOL switched to unlimited access for $19.95 on Dec. 1, it has had record numbers of subscribers join the service, including 500,000 in December alone. Last week, its stock jumped as it reported its membership passed 8 million.
"Yes, I think they will lose some (members), but still it is a very good deal, if you want any of the proprietary content," said Gary Arlen, president of Arlen Communications Inc., a market research firm in Bethesda, Md.
He said that national Internet access providers, such as AT&amp;T Corp.'s WorldNet service, Netcom Online Communications Inc., Mindspring Enterprises Inc. in Atlanta, may gain some users at AOL expense.
"But it won't be a stampede," Arlen said. "Do you go to the little guy with a dozen unlimited lines, or companies that have had regional overloads, like Netcom?"
"We are seeing something," said an AT&amp;T WorldNet spokesman. "In about the last three weeks, we have seen our subscriber rates double ... and we cannot account for this on the basis of our ad programs in place." The AT&amp;T spokesman said that AT&amp;T was trying to determine if the spike in subscribers was due to AOL's woes or other factors.
Currently, AT&amp;T WorldNet has 600,000 users.
Recently, on one Internet newsgroup, users complained in postings that they could not cancel their AOL accounts, because the 800 numbers were busy for hours, and e-mail requests to cancel were told to call these 800 numbers.
AOL and all the online services face a difficult economic model, analysts said, as they spend millions to build out their networks to support growing demand, because it is difficult to estimate what will be the real demand level.
"They are not totally to blame," said Lise Buyer, an analyst with T. Rowe Price. "No one has seen this kind of membership ramp-up before, they are pioneers in this area."
China on Tuesday rejected Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's criticism of its proposal to abolish a series of laws in the territory after it reverts to Beijing's control, saying it was an internal affair.
Beijing also angrily reminded Britain that China was no longer a weak, pre-revolutionary government, and said it would not tolerate other countries trying to impose their will on it.
"We cannot accept Patten's so-called statement," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang said, referring to the governor's criticism of plans to abolish laws on democratic elections and civil liberties in Hong Kong after the transfer of power this year.
"I want to remind the British authorities in Hong Kong that the government of China today is not the pre-1949 government," he told reporters, referring to the year of the Communist revolution.
"We cannot accept any instances of others trying to impose their will on us."
Patten had condemned a move by a China-appointed panel, known as the Preparatory Committee, to draw up a list of 25 laws and articles for repeal or amendment after the transfer of power at midnight on June 30.
After the handover, the territory that has been a British colony for more than 150 years will become a Special Administrative Region of China.
The Foreign Ministry spokesman said the Preparatory Committee had the authority to review existing Hong Kong laws to determine whether they were in conflict with the Basic Law, a mini-constitution drafted by China for the territory.
"This is entirely an internal matter for China," he said.
Shen also tried to play down the impact of the proposals, saying there basically would be no change to existing laws.
He called on the Hong Kong government to avoid making statements that "misled the public or undermined morale in the territory".
Patten had said the proposals, made at a committee meeting in Beijing on Sunday, struck at the heart of Hong Kong's civil liberties and appeared to be politically motivated rather than reflecting real inconsistencies with the Basic Law.
Among the laws to be diluted are Hong Kong's Bill of Rights, a 1992 election law, the Societies Ordinance which permits the formation of political parties and a 1995 Public Order Ordinance which allows peaceful demonstrations.
"Those laws which conflict with the Basic Law cannot continue as laws of the Special Administrative Region," Shen said.
He said that if the Preparatory Committee recommended the revision or abolition of these laws, it was reasonable and in the interests of a smooth transfer of power.
The spokesman also dismissed as groundless concerns over the independence of the judicial system under Chinese rule.
China has begun shipping corn from key growing areas in the north to other parts of the country, cutting northern stockpiles in a bid to keep weak prices there from falling further.
However, domestic corn prices, already under pressure, were likely to extend their slide, industry officials said on Tuesday.
Officials said last week that permission had been given to ship 1.5 million tonnes of corn from Heilongjiang and Jilin provinces to other parts of the country.
The government hopes to push up prices in growing regions to benefit farmers, analysts said. Farmers usually sell their crop close to where it was grown to a middleman, normally a state company, they said.
Some shipments had already begun, officials said.
"These shipments should not have too much of an effect on prices," said an official at the information centre of the State Grain Reserve Administration.
"Overall there is excess supply and the price of corn is expected to remain under pressure this year," he said, adding that weak demand from the domestic feed industry is also contributing to sluggish prices.
Heilongjiang provincial grain authorities told Reuters by telephone there had been little impact so far on prices in the region.
Domestic corn prices have slid more than 30 percent since early last year.
Two years of bumper harvests and curbs on exports have led to rising stockpiles and falling prices.
China has estimated its corn output at 118.5 million tonnes in 1996, up from 106 million in 1995.
The China Grains, Oils and feeds newsletter has projected corn production at 122.5 million tonnes this year.
China has made public figures of its overall grain reserves but it has not given a breakdown of specific crops.
The domestic media have said stockpiles were forcing the state to look for additional space to store excess grain.
The China Grains, Oils and Feeds newsletter said market prices in Jilin and Heilongjiang were 1,130 yuan ($136) and 1,050 yuan per tonne, though some analysts say that prices have fallen through the 1,000-yuan level.
Prices had been around 1,300 to 1,400 yuan per tonne last spring, they said.
Analysts said that despite the downward pressure on prices, China was unlikely to remove its controls on exports -- which were imposed in December 1994 on fears of domestic shortages and inflationary pressure.
"The main concern is still inflation," an analyst said. Even the potential windfall from large-scale exports would not be enough to justify abandoning checks on inflation, although inflation remained largely under control, he added.
The State Grain Reserve Administration official agreed.
"We are not really looking to make money at this," he said in a reference to exports. "We are just making some small adjustments in the overall picture."
China exported 150,000 tonnes of corn in the first 11 months of last year, up 36.2 percent from the same period of 1995. The 1995 figures were well below the previous year levels.
A farm analyst said China's prices were still substantially above world levels and unlikely to interest buyers, even if Beijing decided to relax its stance on exports.
"We won't see more than one million tonnes out of China this year," he said.
Computer Associates International Inc shares gave up six percent of their value Wednesday and analysts said the fall reflected concern over an unexpected secular decline in mainframe revenues.
While the company had issued cautionary comments in late December that revenues were unlikely to meet expecations due to sales problems in its European operations, analysts said they were caught off guard by the mainframe sales slippage.
By midday Wednesday, the stock had fallen three points to 43.  It was the second most active issue on the NYSE.  
In addition, analysts said CA's decline may be tied to broader weakness in the mainframe business, citing disappointing growth in International Business Machines Corp's own hardware business during the December quarter.
IBM is the world's dominant supplier of mainframe software, while Computer Associates is a leading independent supplier of software used to run mainframe machines.
"People got spooked about the mainframe business," said Alex. Brown analyst Chris Mortenson, who noted the company told analysts in a conference call Tuesday night mainframe revenues had fallen eight percent in the December quarter.  
Cowen &amp; Co analyst Drew Brosseau said mainframe sales were a primary reason why he had lowered his revenue estimates for the fiscal fourth quarter ending in March and for its fiscal 1998 year.  He also tied the stock decline back to IBM.
"Anything that affects IBM mainframes positively or negatively is going to have an impact on CA," he said, noting how IBM's mainframe growth is considered a key indicator of the health of the mainframe business overall.
The analyst said he trimmmed his March fourth quarter revenue estimate by $40 million to $1.6 billion and reduced fiscal 1998 revenues by $150 million to $4.55 billion.  
But despite mounting mainframe revenue concerns, most analysts left earnings estimates and stock ratings untouched.
"Most of that near-term transitional challenge is in the stock so we are still recommending it," Brosseau said. "But I expect the performance to come mostly in the second half of the (calendar) year." He stood by his $55 12-month target.
Mortensen added that, "I find today that most investors are asking, 'What's going to make the stock go up in the next 30 days?' If you don't have a good answer, they sell it."
The stock has fallen back in recent weeks from the historic high of just under 68 it acheived in early December.  
Although the company said in October that it was planning to focus its business increasingly on client/server instead of mainframe software, and warned in December of a transitional revenue shortfall, analysts said they were suprised to see an absolute decline in mainframe sales during the latest quarter.
In a published note, Furman Selz analyst Sanjiv Hingorani said mainframe revenues fell eight percent to $640 million, mostly in Europe.  He said CA had suggested the shortfall in the region amounted to $200 million in unrealized revenues.
Especially troubling to analysts was a sequential decline in mainframe MIPS among existing customers CA had described.  
MIPS, or Millions of Instructions Per Second, is a measure of the capacity of the mainframe systems shipped to customers.
In its own commments to analysts Tuesday evening, IBM said MIPS grew 35 percent in the fourth quarter compared with 80 percent in fourth quarter 1995.  MIPS are the primary indicator of mainframe growth IBM discloses to analysts.
Mortenson said Computer Associates executives said they had never encountered such a decline in mainframe capacity. Under grilling by analysts, they said they believed it to be an anomaly which would disappear in the current quarter.
The company, which has historically derived more than 70 percent of its revenues from mainframe sales, said mainframe software accounted for 61 percent of revenues in the December quarter, while client/server software amounted to 39 percent.
Computer Associates reported operating earnings of $0.75 per share for its fiscal third quarter ended in December versus $0.60 per share in the December 1995 quarter. The latest quarter excluded a $598 million acquisition charge.
((-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736))
Wall Street's year-old love affair with IBM showed signs of fraying Wednesday after investors felt jilted by the computer maker's fourth-quarter earnings report.
International Business Machines Corp. stock tumbled $13 in early trading and closed $10 lower at $158 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the most active issue with more than 12.2 million shares changing hands.
The drop contributed accounted for most of the decline of nearly 34 points in the Dow Jones industrial average, which includes IBM in its 30 stocks. It had some market pundits wondering if the issues affecting IBM's profits in the quarter point to a broader slowdown in corporate earnings this year that could mean an end to the stock market's stellar rally.
The world's largest computer maker late on Tuesday said fourth quarter earnings rose 18 percent to $2 billion, or $3.93 a share, beating the average Wall Street estimate of $3.88 a share but falling short of more optimistic forecasts.
In fact, several analysts said they were disappointed with the results, which were boosted by a lower tax rate and lower-than-expected restructuring costs, but hurt by sluggish mainframe sales and currency fluctuations.
"This quarter took the wind out of their sails," said Daniel Ries, a Nomura Research analyst.
"Rather than easily achieve (Wall) Street estimates, IBM appeared to be huffing and puffing," Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich said in a note to clients.
IBM stock more than doubled in the last year, aided late in the year by Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Mandresh, who in November raised his price target for IBM stock to $195.
On Wednesday Mandresh cut his 1997 earnings estimate for IBM to $13 a share from $13.40, traders said. Mandresh did not return calls seeking comment. But traders said he reiterated his buy rating on the stock and the $195 price target.
For all of 1996, IBM earned $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share.
While IBM's service business continued to perform well in the fourth quarter -- revenues there grew 22 percent -- mainframe sales were disappointing and its microelectronics unit was hurt by a drop in computer memory chip prices.
In addition, sales of RS/6000 workstations were flat.
"It was disappointing in a number of dimensions, partly hardware growth and the gross margin being low," said Painewebber analyst Stephen Smith, who reiterated what he called a controversial "unattractive" rating on IBM.
Smith said he expected less profits from mainframes, IBM's traditional stronghold, in 1997 than in 1996.
John Jones of Salomon Brothers said mainframe sales fell 12 percent in the quarter, with 10 percent of those revenues coming from IBM's older less profitable machines that are being discontinued.
Not every analyst saw the earnings report as negative.
"Hardware is the thing that was off the mark," said SoundView Financial analyst Gary Helmig, who cited "some good news underneath" and reiterated a buy rating on IBM.
Bear Stearns analyst Andrew Neff said he held his attractive rating on IBM shares and kept his 1997 estimate of $12.75 a share unchanged.
Some market analysts said the issues surrounding IBM could foreshadow problems for corporate earnings, and stock prices, down the road.
One issue is the strength of the dollar, which IBM said ate into fourth quarter revenue growth by 3 percentage points.
"The strong dollar is something I think is going to impact earnings for many multinationals," said Edgar Peters, chief investment strategist at PanAgora Asset Management. "That's something that hasn't been talked about much before today."
The strong dollar can hurt U.S. companies in two ways: profits from overseas are worth less when translated into dollars and companies have a harder time raising prices since foreign competitors have the advantage of a weaker currency.
"It means the pricing power of domestic corporations is hurt," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "This foreshadows the real problem of 1997 because one of the pillars of this market has been earnings growth."
The dollar, recently at its highest level in years against the German mark and Japanese yen, shows few signs of retreating.
Still, some said Wednesday's IBM sell-off was overdone.
"I think there was a lot of retail panic selling," Soundview's Helmig said, referring to sales by customers of retail brokerages as opposed to institutional investors.
David Takata of Gruntal &amp; Co. raised his price target on IBM to $200. "1997 looks like IBM's year of execution," he said.
Wall Street's renewed love affair with International Business Machines Corp cooled abruptly after its disappointing fourth quarter, and IBM must show more growth next quarter to recapture investors' hearts.
IBM's stock, which was rather moribund for most of 1996, got a big boost from a Merrill Lynch analyst in mid-November, fueling a surge of renewed interest in IBM. Many on Wall Sreet endorsed his view that IBM was becoming a growth engine again.
But Tuesday, IBM's fourth quarter earnings quashed any hopes of double-digit revenue growth and its shares tumbled.  
On Wednesday, IBM was off 10-3/8 in heavy midafternoon New York Stock Exchange trading to 159, as many momentum players exited the stock.  Before Wednesday's drop, IBM's shares had surged 23 percent since mid-November, when Daniel Mandresh of Merrill Lynch raised his IBM price target to $195.
During 1996, IBM's shares traded at a 200-moving day average that ranged from $96 to $116.  Its shares later consolidated around $135 before breaking out.
"There has been some froth in the stock, with many people thinking they are finally back on a growth trend," said Daniel Ries, a Nomura Research analyst.  
"This quarter took the wind out of their sails," Ries said, adding that the next round of impatient investors will judge IBM by its first quarter's performance.  "But others will say one quarter does not a trend make," he said.
While IBM reported fourth quarter earnings of $3.93 a share -- better than the First Call consensus number of $3.88 a share -- analysts said IBM's results were boosted by an unexpectedly lower tax rate that added between $0.20 and $0.30 a share.  IBM also had lower restructuring costs of $200 million versus the $300-$400 million Wall Street had forecast.
Analysts had also included a negative currency impact.  
"Rather than easily achieve Street estimates, IBM appeared to be huffing and puffing," said Steve Milunovich, a Morgan Stanley analyst, in a note to clients.
Some negatives from the fourth quarter will continue into the first quarter and other quarters of 1997.  Currency is expected to be one, as is the drop in prices of dynamic random access memory chips (DRAMs), which IBM sells in great quantities through its IBM Microelectronics business.
But the most disappointing results came from its hardware business, which was especially under pressure from a decline in mainframe computers and flat RS/6000 workstations.  
"It was disappointing in a number of dimensions, partly hardware growth and the gross margin being low," said Stephen Smith, who reiterated what he says is a controversial rating on IBM, an "unattractive" rating.
Smith said his concerns stem from the current strength in mainframe revenues and whether it will continue.  He expects less profits to come from mainframes in 1997 than in 1996.
IBM's total hardware revenues were $11.7 billion, up two percent. Gross hardware profit margins dropped to 36.6 percent of revenues, from 39.6 percent a year ago. IBM attributed part of its margin drop to higher volumes of lower-margin products.  
Lower margin products include personal computers, which had another great quarter and closed in on Compaq Computer Corp's margins, which are the highest in the industry. Compaq's margins were around 24 percent this quarter.
Analysts hoped that the higher margin mainframe computers would contribute more to the quarter, even though many had predicted it would be a tough comparison with a year ago.
IBM told analysts that the number of MIPS (millions of instructions per second) shipped, its measure of mainframe computing capacity, grew 35 percent in the fourth quarter, down from an 80 percent jump in fourth quarter 1995.  
John Jones of Salomon Brothers said that mainframe sales fell 12 percent in the quarter, with 10 percent of those revenues still coming from IBM's older less profitable bi-polar line, which IBM is close to discontinuing.
"Hardware is the thing that was off the mark," said Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial analyst, who reiterated a buy rating on IBM, citing "some good news underneath" the earnings, such as its strong services growth and better than expected software performance.
"The thing that gets it going again is refocusing on what is IBM, a hardware business or a services business?" he said.
International Business Machines Corp. Tuesday reported higher fourth quarter profits, bolstered by its strong services and software sales, but some analysts were disappointed about sluggish mainframe sales and lower-than-expected restructuring costs.
The world's largest computer maker said net income rose about 18 percent to $2.02 billion in the quarter from $1.71 billion in the 1995 quarter. Revenues were up 6 percent, to $23.1 billion, from $21.9 billion a year ago.
Earnings per share rose to $3.93 from $3.09, since IBM had 7 percent fewer shares outstanding in the quarter due to stock buybacks. Wall Street analysts had expected profits of $3.88 a share on average, according to First Call, which tracks earnings estimates.
"They were mixed results, software and services were great," said David Takata, a Gruntal &amp; Co. analyst.
He said weak mainframe computer revenues were disappointing. Some analysts had been predicting better mainframe revenues in the quarter due to strong new products.
The sluggish mainframe sales and lower-than-expected restructuring costs, however, lead some analysts to call the quarter a disappointment after attending a meeting of IBM executives and analysts in New York.
"It was disappointing, but not disastrous," said Barry Bosak, a Smith Barney analyst. "They are facing challenges, (but) it is not pulling the company down like it was in the late 1980s and early 1990s. We'd like to see more growth and we are not getting it."
"The quarter looked a little light," said Daniel Ries, a Nomura Securities analyst. "They took a smaller than expected charge... and the tax rate was lower than what everyone was using. I think they missed the number slightly.
For the quarter, IBM's restructuring costs were $200 million, less than previous estimates of between $300-$400 million. IBM said restructuring costs in 1997 would reach about the same level as total costs of $720 million in 1996.
G. Richard Thoman, IBM's chief financial officer, told analysts IBM spent less than planned on restructuring mostly because of its European operations. "In Europe once again, we were unable to achieve success in voluntary (staff) reductions," he said referring to IBM's employee buyout plans.
The Armonk, N.Y.-based computer maker said service revenues jumped 22 percent in the quarter and personal computer sales rose, but sales of mainframes fell and RS/6000 workstations were flat.
Software revenues rose 4 percent in the quarter, and hardware sales increased 2 percent. IBM said its sales of Lotus Notes reached a record of 1.5 million licenses in the quarter, bring the total of Notes licenses to 9 million.
Personal computers were also a bright spot for IBM, but they carry lower product margins.
Thoman said IBM's PC business showed continued improvements, with its profit margin closing in on Compaq Computer Corp.'s margins, which are about 23 percent of revenues, the best in the industry. But he declined to give provide specifics about unit shipments or gross margins.
IBM's total gross profit margins fell in the quarter to 40.3 percent of revenues vs. 41.7 percent a year ago.
"We showed good growth in the fourth quarter despite a difficult year-over-year comparison, continued weakness in Europe and a greater-than-expected currency impact," IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner said in a statement.
"Although we still face many challenges, IBM is a much different company than it was only a few years ago," he said, noting IBM's services business accounted for 21 percent of revenues at the end of 1996 compared to 13 percent in 1993.
The impact of converting revenues received in foreign currencies into dollars erased 3 percentage points from the fourth-quarter revenue gain, IBM said. That compared with about a two point positive impact in the 1995 quarter.
Net earnings for the year rose to $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share, from $4.2 billion, or $7.23 a share, in 1995. The 1996 results included a charge for research and development from the acquisition of Lotus Development Corp.
Full-year revenues rose 5.6 percent to $75.95 billion from $71.94 billion.
In a break with tradition, IBM released its results after the stock market closed rather than before the market opened.
The stock closed up $1 at $168 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
By region, revenues in North America rose 11 percent to $9.6 billion in the fourth quarter, Asia-Pacific rose 6 percent to $4.3 billion and Latin America gained 4.0 percent to $1.1 billion. Revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa were $8.1 billion, little changed year over year.
Computer Associates International Inc said on Tuesday at its North American revenues grew 33 percent in its December quarter, cushioning the blow of a pre-announced decline in European sales.
In a phone interview, Sanjay Kumar, CA's president and chief operating officer, said European revenues declined about 20 percent year-on-year.
Total revenues for the fiscal third quarter ended December 31 were $1.05 billion against $1.00 billion in the December quarter of 1995.
Also, the executive said CA had become a "big buyer" of its own stock since the company's warning in late December of a revenue shortfall sent the stock price tumbling.
CA stock had been trading around record high levels of $67 and now is in the mid $40's.
Kumar said the revenue problem arose from the software maker's on-going transition to a client-server focus from its traditional mainframe base.
He said the mainframe-oriented European sales force was finding the switch to highly competitive open systems software a challenge.  
Kumar said he told Wall Street analysts in a conference call Tuesday evening that it could take a quarter and perhaps two quarters to put its European sales back on track.
"We clearly need the current quarter to work through these issues," he said, referring to the fiscal fourth quarter ending in March.
"My thinking at this point is that (I would like to have) the room if needed into the first quarter," he said.
"I told analysts that I am not doing anything short term just to grab some revenue," he added.  
The CA executive said Italy and Spain continue to do well but France and Germany suffered the brunt of the sales downturn.
Asia/Pacific revenue growth was "very strong" with China growing 100 percent year over year.
Kumar said client/server revenues now account for 39 percent of CA's total with mainframe revenues making up the rest. Client/server revenues grew 43 percent year on year, he noted. "I would clearly like to see us cross the 50-50 line in 1997, but it may take until 1998," he said, referring to the split between mainframe and client/server revenues.
In its third quarter earnings results, CA reported operating earnings of $0.75 a share, 25 percent above the December 1995 quarter's $0.60.
That excluded a pre-announced charge of $598 million for the acquisition of Cheyenne Software.
China issued more tough warnings on curbing risk in the financial sector on Thursday, fresh on the heels of the failure of one of its big trust companies.
It also accused some officials of ignoring past warnings and covering up problems.
"There are all sorts of serious financial crimes now and if these problems are not earnestly addressed, this could greatly weaken the payment system and damage the good reputation of our socialist financial system," said the official Financial News in a front-page commentary.
"The biggest problem is that some officials look but fail to see the problems in their own regions or departments," it said. "When they see the problems they fail to check on them and in some cases they cover up and encourage such actions."
The newspaper, published by the central bank, said failure to tackle the problems would exacerbate the nation's deficit and lead to unwanted growth in the money supply.
The central bank announced this month the closure of the big China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment Corp (CADTIC), an investment house under the Ministry of Agriculture, because of serious illegal and irregular practices.
CADTIC's management was taken over by the state-run China Construction Bank while its foreign business was handed over to the Bank of China.
China has been trying to separate trust firms from state banks, fearing that trust failures could drag down the banking system and lead to social unrest.
China has no bank deposit insurance system and would probably have to step in to support a bank that went into default, banking officials said.
Its willingness to prop up trust companies is somewhat less certain.
U.S. rating agency Moody's Investors Service issued a report this month saying that central authorities might not rush to support troubled trusts. Repayment of foreign lenders in the event of future closures was not guaranteed, it said.
The Financial News said a planned separation of banks from trust companies -- originally set for completion at the end of last year -- had to be finished in the first half of this year.
Banking industry officials have said that the huge problems of the China Agribusiness Development Trust, while known to regulators for some time, were a "wake-up call" that foreshadowed more problems throughout the financial system.
The latest round of warnings followed a national banking conference that focused on excess financial risk in the banking system.
Software firm Computer Associates International Inc. stock dropped more than 6 percent Wednesday, and analysts said the slump reflected concern over an unexpected decline in mainframe computer revenues.
Although the Islandia, N.Y.-based company issued cautionary comments in late December that revenues were unlikely to meet expectations due to sales problems in its European operations, analysts said they were caught off guard by the slippage in mainframe software sales reported late Tuesday.
Computer Associates stock fell $2.50 to $43.50 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was one of the most active issues.
Analysts said the decline may also be linked to broader weakness in the mainframe business, citing disappointing growth in International Business Machines Corp.'s hardware business during the December quarter.
IBM is the world's dominant supplier of mainframe software, while Computer Associates is a leading independent supplier of software used to run mainframe machines.
"People got spooked about the mainframe business," said Alex. Brown brokerage analyst Chris Mortenson, who noted the company told analysts in a conference call Tuesday night that mainframe revenues fell 8 percent in the December quarter.
Despite mounting mainframe revenue concerns, most analysts left earnings estimates and stock ratings untouched.
The stock has fallen back in recent weeks from the historic high of just under $68 it acheived in early December.
Computer Associates reported operating earnings of $284.7 million, or 75 cents a share, for its fiscal third quarter vs. $227.2 million, or 60 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. The latest quarter excluded a $598 million acquisition charge.
The company, which has historically derived more than 70 percent of its revenues from mainframe sales, said mainframe software accounted for 61 percent of revenues in the December quarter, while PC network software amounted to 39 percent.
Cascade Communications Corp said its core frame-relay business continued to grow in 1996 at the hyper-growth rates seen in recent years, but that some of the evidence of this was concealed in its other businesses.
In a phone interview, chief executive Daniel Smith said some frame-relay business is now concealed in sales of Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) products, a newer line of high-speed data transmission products Cascade sells.
Smith also said he sees Cascade gaining frame-relay market share in 1997, but at perhaps a slower pace than to date.  
"We grew market share significantly in 1996 and we expect to continue that in 1997, but maybe at a slower rate than in 1996," he told Reuters. He declined to quantify these growth goals saying it was company policy not to make such forecasts.
He said Cascade had "relatively flat" sequential frame relay sales in the fourth quarter, compared with its September quarter, but attributed this to delays in telecom customer orders, not lost business.  
Cascade stock fell sharply Friday following the release of its fourth quarter earnings late Thursday, which were slightly better-than-expected. By late afternoon Friday, Cascade stock had fallen 23-1/8 to 41 on volume of nearly 39 million shares.
Fourth quarter net income was $0.24 per share, a penny ahead of consensus, versus $0.10 in the 1995 fourth quarter.
New York State Attorney General Dennis Vacco said Friday that he planned to sue America Online Inc. if the company's negotiations with prosecutors from 20 states over consumer complaints about its service broke down.
Vacco told a news conference he would sue the world's largest online service, with more than 8 million subscribers, to halt allegedly deceptive business practices and to win refunds for the company's frustrated customers.
"I'm not interested in contrition, I'm interested in restitution," Vacco told reporters in Manhattan.
AOL has been hit by a slew of consumer complaints, including several class-action lawsuits, since switching to a new pricing plan because many frustrated users cannot get on the service or are dropped after they manage to log on.
America Online Chairman Steve Case said on the CNBC cable television channel that he was not considering subscriber refunds. He said the company was doing all it could to fix the problems and that he understood the frustrations.
"It is not something we are considering," Case said on CNBC. "Most customers have seen a tremendous price cut, they have doubled their usage" with the new plan, which costs $19.95 a month for unlimited access.
Vacco and other attorneys general or their aides from 20 states met with America Online officials on Thursday in Chicago, in person or via conference call, to discuss a barrage of complaints by subscribers who have experienced difficulty accessing the service from their computers.
Vacco said he sent notification Thursday of New York state's proposed litigation to America Online's headquarters in Dulles, Va. He said a lawsuit would allege the company engaged in deceptive sales practices, false advertising and fraud in selling online services.
"Getting some sort of rebate or refunds from consumers is one of our primary concerns in this issue," said a spokesman for Attorney General Vacco, when asked about Case's comments. He said that New York State would file this lawsuit alone.
Washington state, one of the 20 states, said it was considering a range of options.
"Obviously one of the options is to file a lawsuit and obtain relief through the courts," senior assistant attorney general Sally Gustafson said in Seattle. Another was to negotiate a settlement, she said.
A spokeswoman for Dulles, Va.-based AOL said the company was still in discussions with all the attorneys general.
"We are likely to reach an understanding that will allow us to best meet the needs of our members," she said.
America Online stock fell 50 cents to $36.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. Wall Street remains largely unfazed by the swirl of legal and media attention surrounding AOL.
AOL moved to placate angry customers last week, telling them it would spend $350 million to upgrade its network, $100 million more than it had announced in December.
It also asked them to try to cut use during peak hours, an unprecedented plea to its subscribers. Case even told members in his monthly newsletter to learn how to write and receive electronic mail offline, in so-called "flash sessions."
But New York's Vacco called AOL's attitude disingenuous.
"We want to give the consumers a choice that gives them a refund if they want it. Don't just say 'Hang on;' give them a choice, which includes getting out with their money." There are 600,000 AOL users in New York state.
AOL has been hit with at least four class-action lawsuits by subscribers, including two in New York.
Vacco would not comment on Thursday's meeting.
Case also was reluctant to talk about the meeting.
"I'm not going to discuss what is on the table with the attorneys general," he said on CNBC, adding that the meeting was "constructive" and that the attorneys general asked AOL not to talk about it. "Our interests are really in parallel."
The move to unlimited access itself incurred the ire of many of the same attorneys general. Last month, AOL reached an agreement with 19 states over the flat-rate pricing, with AOL agreeing to pay automatic refunds to subscribers who did not want to pay $19.95 a month.
But analysts noted AOL had already told subscribers, before the agreements with the states, that it would give refunds to those who were switched to unlimited usage without their consent, if they wished to continue at a lower cost plan.
New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco said Friday that he planned to sue America Online Inc. if the company's negotiations with prosecutors from 20 states over consumer issues broke down.
Vacco told a news conference he would sue the world's largest online service, with more than 8 million subscribers, to halt allegedly deceptive business practices and to win refunds for the company's frustrated customers.
But America Online Chairman Steve Case said in an interview with the CNBC cable television channel that he was not considering subscriber refunds. He said the company was doing all it could to alleviate problems and said he understood customers' frustration.
Vacco and other attorneys general or their aides from 20 states met with America Online Thursday in Chicago, either in person or via conference call, to discuss a barrage of complaints by subscribers who have experienced difficulty accessing the service from their computers.
Vacco said he sent notification Thursday of New York state's proposed litigation to America Online's headquarters in Dulles, Va. He said a lawsuit would allege the company engaged in deceptive sales practices, false advertising and fraud in selling online services.
Company officials did not immediately comment on a possible New York lawsuit.
America Online stock dipped $1 to $36.25 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The online service, which enables subscribers to send electronic mail, browse the World Wide Web and view proprietary content, has seen an upsurge in the number of subscribers -- and busy signals -- since it switched to a flat-rate, unlimited use pricing plan Dec. 1.
Previously, AOL had billed subscribers according to how long they were online.
AOL moved to placate angry customers last week, telling them it would spend $350 million to upgrade its network. It also asked them to try to cut their use during peak hours.
Vacco said, "We want to give the consumers a choice that gives them a refund if they want it. Don't just say 'Hang on;' give them a choice, which includes getting out with their money."
But Case, asked on CNBC about customer refunds, said, "It's not something we are considering."
AOL already has been hit with at least four class-action lawsuits by subscribers.
Vacco would not comment on Thursday's meeting.
Case also was reluctant to talk about the meeting.
"I'm not going to discuss what is on the table with the attorneys general," he said. He said the meeting was "constructive" and that the attorneys general asked AOL not to talk about it.
"Our interests are really in paraellel," Case told CNBC.
"Most customers have seen a tremendous price cut (with the change in pricing), they have doubled their usage," he said.
Case said he understood the frustration users feel when they cannot log onto AOL, saying he, too, experiences the same problem when he tries to log on from home in the evening.
"The reason we went to unlimited pricing is because our customers asked for it," he said. "Once they are online, they don't have to worry about the clock ticking. We did say there will be a surge in demand and there will be some busy signals. It will probably take us a few months to build out our capacity. That's our intent and we are doing everything we can to do it as soon as possible."
The move to unlimited access itself incurred the ire of many of the same attorneys general. Last month, AOL reached an agreement with 19 state attorneys general over the flat-rate pricing, with AOL agreeing to pay automatic refunds to subscribers who did not want to pay $19.95 a month.
Cascade Communications Corp shares were crushed in a wave of selling Friday after company comments in a conference call stoked fears about future earnings.
Several analysts slashed ratings on Cascade, citing concern that growth rates for its core frame-relay switching business may be slowing to industry levels of 30-50 percent from its prior 100 percent plus.
The formerly high-flying data networking stock was off 19-3/4 to 44-3/8. All gains seen since April had evaporated.
As the bad news continues to swirl around America Online Inc, some of its competitors are now swooping in, hoping to gain new members from the growing number of disgruntled AOL users who are fed up with its woes.
On Sunday, CompuServe Corp, the second largest online service, plans to run its first-ever Super Bowl ad, a 30-second television spot, called the "Busy Signal."
CompuServe said it will not specifically mention AOL, but the ad is clearly a jab at AOL's current woes, since it has been besieged with users since it switched to unlimited use.  
CompuServe also plans a print campaign with the theme of reliability in accessing the Internet without frequent connectivity problems. The company declined to say how much it is spending for the total campaign.
"We are doing the print compaign and the spot simply because our competitors problems have been so widely reported and so widely known, we think the public feels that all online service providers are having the same problems," said Gail Walls, an acting vice president at CompuServe. "We don't have these problems. Our network is our strength.
Two months ago, CompuServe exited the consumer business.  
When asked why CompuServe is advertising during one of the most expensive advertising time slots aimed at consumers, Walls said CompuServe is not changing its strategy.
"We are interested in the serious Internet customer, we are not pursuing the mass consumer," she said. "The point is to raise awareness about our strength...When you need to make a point, it's a great venue."
CompuServe's move comes on the heels of comments made by the head of AT&amp;T Corp's WorldNet Internet access service. Late Wednesday, Tom Evslin told Reuters that AT&amp;T is gaining new subscribers who are dissatisfied AOL members.  
He also said that AT&amp;T WorldNet plans a new advertising campaign, one that will focus more on the reliability of its network, in print, television, radio and on the Internet. AT&amp;T does not plan any advertising during the Super Bowl, however.
"This is predatory marketing. They are in a very competitive marketplace," said Kate Delhagen, a Forrester Resarch analyst. "It's not surprising that (many of) the ISPs (Internet service providers) are going right for the jugular. They see consumers who are frustrated and they are capitalizing on this opportunity." AOL is the world's largest online service with over eight million members.  
AT&amp;T said it will not refer directly to AOL in its new advertising, which will begin sometime in February.
"Rather than targeting AOL users, I think we will make a point about our reliability and let people make their own conclusions," Evslin said.
But Microsoft Corp, usually known for its hardball marketing tactics, is taking a kinder, gentler approach to AOL's problems, knowing full well that AOL is not alone in the industry with outages or capacity problems. Just Monday, AT&amp;T said it had a 19-hour outage at WorldNet's managed Internet service, its service for corporate users.  
"We don't think it's a healthy thing for the industry to do anything other than actions which try to expand the market," said Jeff Sanderson, general manager of marketing for the Microsoft Network, which is now the third-largest online service with over two million subscribers.
"The message is you should get on the Internet, and MSN is the easiest way to the coolest stuff that is there, including AOL," Sanderson said. He said that Microsoft is doing significant marketing for MSN in general, but added that when the software giant mails out the CDs for its service, it tries to target the cities where it has the most capacity available.
"Meeting the unprecedented demand will be a continuing problem for the industry as a whole," said Adam Schoenfeld, a Jupiter Communications analyst. "The twist here is that Internet access in this very competitive market will not be profitable for everyone."
New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco said Friday that he planned to sue America Online Inc. if the company's negotiations with prosecutors from 20 states over consumer issues broke down.
Vacco told a news conference he would sue the world's largest online service, with more than 8 million subscribers, to halt allegedly deceptive business practices and to win refunds for the company's frustrated customers.
The New York attorney general and other prosecutors or their aides from 20 states met with America Online Thursday in Chicago, either in person or via conference call, to discuss a barrage of complaints by subscribers who have experienced difficulty accessing the service from their computers.
Vacco said he sent notification Thursday of New York state's proposed litigation to America Online's headquarters in Dulles, Va. He said a lawsuit would allege the company engaged in deceptive sales practices, false advertising and fraud in selling online services.
America Online, or AOL, has five business days after receving the notice. Company officials were not immediately available to comment on a possible New York lawsuit, but late Thursday, AOL said it was cooperating with the 20 states.
The online service, which enables subscribers to send electronic mail, browse the World Wide Web and view proprietary content; has seen an upsurge in the number of subscribers -- and busy signals -- since it switched to a flat-rate, unlimited use pricing plan Dec. 1.
Previously, the service had billed subscribers according to how long they were online.
AOL moved to placate angry customers last week, telling them it would spend $350 million to upgrade its network and asking them to try to cut their use of the service during peak hours.
Vacco said, "We want to give the consumers a choice that gives them a refund if they want it. Don't just say 'Hang on;' give them a choice, which includes getting out with their money.
"I'm not interested in contrition, I'm interested in restitution," he said "They paid for a service they are not getting."
AOL already has been hit with at least four class-action lawsuits by subscribers.
Vacco would not comment on what happened at Thursday's meeting.
"I'm not going to characterise it except to say ... that AOL fully appreciated where we were coming from," he said.
The move to unlimited access itself incurred the ire of many of the same attorneys general. Last month, AOL reached an agreement with 19 state attorneys general over the flat-rate pricing, with AOL agreeing to pay automatic refunds to subscribers who did not want to pay $19.95 a month.
Xerox Corp. on Thursday reported higher fourth-quarter profits from continuing operations, as a 26 percent rise in sales of digital products offset flat sales of its mainstay black and white copiers.
Xerox shares also got a boost when the nation's largest maker of document processing systems said it had agreed to sell part of its Talegen insurance holdings in a deal worth $450 million including assumption of debt.
In addition, the company also said its board had voted to raise the dividend 10 percent.
Xerox reported earnings of $426 million for the latest quarter, up 12 percent compared to earnings from continuing operations of $379 million in the 1995 quarter.
The 1995 figure excludes a $1.6 billion charge related to the planned sale of Talegen and a one-time gain on taxes related to operations in Brazil.
Sales rose to $5.08 billion from $4.76 billion.
The earnings beat forecasts by a few cents a share, according to figures from First Call, a service that tracks analysts' estimates, and Xerox stock closed up $1.375 at $59.50 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The fourth quarter report marked a significant turnaround from a stunning third quarter earnings disappointment that had sent Xerox shares tumbling as low as $46 a share in October.
"A lot to like," Smith Barney analyst Peter Enderlin said, pointing in particular to sales growth in key businesses, progress on exiting the insurance business, and the dividend increase. "It was a good solid quarter," he said.
Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox said in September that a deal to sell all of Talegen for $2.7 billion to investors led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., the New York buyout firm, had fallen apart, leaving it to sell the insurance unit piecemeal.
Xerox announced Thursday that it agreed to sell Talegen's Coregis unit, a professional liability insurer, for $375 million in cash and the assumption of $75 million in debt to General Electric Co.'s GE Capital unit.
Xerox said that its digital product revenues, which now account for a third of overall corporate revenues, rose 26 percent in the quarter, boosted by strong sales of color copiers and printers and copy publishing systems.
Black-and-white copiers, the products that remain synonymous with the company's name, accounted for 53 percent of total revenues.
Strong increases in copier equipment sales in the United States and Brazil were partly offset by a decline in Europe, due largely to sluggish national economies, the company said.
Xerox Chairman Paul Allaire said he was encouraged by the planned sale of Coregis and by the strong interest of prospective buyers in the rest of Talegen Holdings Inc.
He said he expected Xerox will have sold most of Talegen's operations by year-end and hinted the divestiture may allow it to boost its program to buy back shares of Xerox stock, a move that increases the value of remaining shares outstanding.
Industry analysts had said Coregis was the most attractive piece of Talegen, which also provides workers' compensation, industrial indemnity and other types of specialized insurance products.
Chicago-based Coregis, which has 470 employees, writes commercial property and casualty insurance for public entities and licensed and certified professionals.
Xerox said in a separate deal it agreed to sell Apprise Corp., a New Jersey-based firm that sells computing services to insurers, to Andersen Consulting. Terms were not disclosed.
Xerox also said the board voted to raise the quarterly dividend to 32 cents a share from 29 cents, an increase of 10 percent, payable April 1 to shareholders of record on March 7.
For the full year, Xerox earnings from continuing operations rose 3 percent $1.21 billion from $1.17 billion, in 1995. Including the charge for Talegen, Xerox lost $472 million in 1995.
Sales grew 5 percent to $17.38 billion from $16.59 billion.
America Online Inc., which is under siege by an onslaught of consumer complaints and scrutiny by 20 state attorneys general, is facing a major dilemma as it continues its negotiations with the states.
On Friday, New York threatened to sue the world's largest online service for allegedly deceptive business practices and false advertising if its negotiations with America Online seeking relief for consumers break down.
Other states could follow and at least one, Washington, said it is considering its options.
The Dulles, Va.-based online service has been besieged with complaints by subscribers who began encountering repeated busy signals when they tried to log on after the company switched to a pricing plan offering unlimited access for $9.95 a month.
New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco said his priority is getting refunds or free time for frustrated consumers, something America Online Chairman Steve Case said he is not willing to do.
New York said America Online, or AOL, had five business days to respond and show why such a legal proceeding against it should not be instituted.
New York's announcement came one day after prosecutors from 20 states met in Chicago with AOL, in person or via conference call, to discuss consumers' complaints. While AOL is talking to the attorneys general to try and show it is doing all it can to help solve the congestion problem on its service, it is also trying to appease Wall Street and keep its stock propped up. AOL stock fell 50 cents to $36.75 Friday, not much by technology standards. So far, Wall Street is not worried because most analysts do not think that AOL will have to cough up any refunds, or if it does, they will not be "onerous," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Cod. analyst.
"The attorneys general have looked at AOL on a number of issues in the last couple of years and the settlements have not been onerous from a financial standpoint," Kiggen said. "By the time the legal machine grinds here, the overcapacity will not be an issue anymore."
But still, amid the storm of bad publicity and busy signals, AOL is losing the new subscribers it has been spending millions of dollars to gain. It said it was cutting back on its television advertising campaign and mailings of floppy disks to curtail interest in its service while it upgrades its network with more modems, spending $350 million.
Already, both Prodigy Services Co. and AT&amp;T Corp.'s WorldNet Internet service have said they gained new subscribers this month, at a faster pace than normal. Both attribute the upsurge in their memberships to frustrated AOL subscribers.
"I would not be surprised if they are seeing a lift," said Kate Delhagen, an analyst with the Forrester Research firm. "This is a land-grab opportunity they did not expect."
Delhagen predicted that many AOL users may go into an inactive mode for a few weeks and see if the service improves with the new modems.
The next quarterly announcement of AOL's subscriber data will be a closely watched number on Wall Street. Many analysts predict that other pricing changes will occur in the not-too-distant future.
Some analysts said pricing can only go down because more and more of AOL's future revenues will come from advertising and transactions, even though the "all-you-can-eat" subscription model is not expected to be profitable.
"You have a very large subscriber base, but they are not going to throw off much in earnings, there are no economies of scale," said Steve Harmon, a senior investment analyst for iWorld, an Internet news Web site. "In the future ... they want AT&amp;T and other access providers to direct people to AOL. It will be a destination instead of a network. This is the rough period in between."
So, as AOL continues to talk to the attorneys general, analysts also predict it could come up with some other agreements with other network providers, to further improve direct access to its service.
AOL already has a cheaper version of AOL, for $9.95 a month unlimited access, if you "bring your own access" to get to AOL, from any Internet access provider. But analysts said AOL could also share some space on these vast networks, which are underutilized compared with AOL's, to host parts of its proprietary content.
"They have to put a network in faster than they can build it and any way they can affordably do it, and that is a big question, (how they will do it)," said Gary Arlen, president of Arlen Communications Inc.
In the past few days, analysts said it has been easier to get online and they have not been getting busy signals as much as before, already a sign that either the bad publicity is scaring away users or the new modems are helping users sign on faster.
In the past two weeks, AOL suffered a partial outage of almost four hours of its entire service and another one when users could not access e-mail, for a total of almost three hours.
Networking stocks weathered stiff selling pressure Monday as money managers appeared to be lightening up on the sector following Friday's wild sell-off in the shares of Cascade Communications Corp.
Cascade remained the most active issue Monday, giving up another three points to 38 by late afternoon on volume of more than 11 million shares.
Analysts said other issues tarred by Cascade's mishap appeared to include 3Com Corp, off 3-5/8 to 65-1/8, and Ascend Communications Inc, down 3-1/2 to 74-1/2.  
"The whole networking sector is in the toilet today," said one networking analyst. Even Cisco Systems Inc, which clung to positive territory during most of Monday lost ground shortly before the close to end the day down 1/4 at 68-3/8.
The American Stock Exchange Networking Index slid 8.39 points Monday to 314.53, a decline of 2.60 percent, continuing a fall back from the 345 level it hit Thursday.
The 3Com decline comes ahead of a series of events the company plans to hold in New York Tuesday, including a joint product annoucement with Cascade and International Business Machines Corp and a briefing for financial analysts.  
Industry analysts expect 3Com, Cascade and IBM to announce a new level of compability between products designed to reduce Internet traffic congestion, in a bid to reduce demand for router equipment supplied by Cisco, their mutual adversary.
Comments from Cascade executives about slowing growth in its core business have sent the stock hurtling back from its previously high price-to-earnings multiple. The stock lost 23-1/8 points to end Friday at 41.
"It's a little bit of residual effect from Cascade getting whacked Friday," said Joe Noel. "Fund managers are getting a little nervous that the sky is falling down."  
Noel said the recent fallback in the networking sector reflects a pattern of periodic stampede behavior into and out of the the sector. Cascade's problems has inspired fears that the sector's growth overall may be slowing, he said.
"But fund managers always come back to the networking sector, because this is where growth is," Noel said. "They may look elsewhere for a little while, but there are few other stocks where they can find 100 percent plus annual growth."
Ascend, increasingly a direct competitor to Cascade, appeared to be dragged down by a more general guilt by association.
Like Cascade, Ascend has seen rocketing sales of its Internet infrastrucure equipment and enjoyed a sky-high valuation to go with that growth.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
International Business Machines Corp., aiming to halt a slide in its stock price, Tuesday set a 2-for-1 split that helped fuel a Wall Street rally in one of the most popular stocks on Main Street.
The world's biggest computer maker said its board approved the split, which will double the number of shares traded while halving the stock's price, subject to shareholders approving a rise in the amount of authorised shares, a formality.
Industry analysts said that while the move gave the stock a cosmetic boost, the gains may be fleeting unless IBM proves it can revive the growth of its core computer business.
"The company's management must show how they can deliver sustained growth again before people will say 'IBM is healed,'" Nomura Securities analyst Daniel Ries said.
Still, analysts and traders said IBM's timing was impeccable, coming after Salomon Brothers upgraded the stock and following the past week's drop of $25.
"People were looking for an entry point -- they found it," one trader said.
The stock, which had tumbled since IBM's fourth quarter earnings report disappointed Wall Street last week, bounced back and rose $5 to $150.75 in active New York Stock Exchange trading.
The stock, widely held by individual and institutional investors worldwide, is one of 30 issues in the Dow Jones industrial average and often sets the tone for the broader market on Wall Street.
Besides the initial boost that typically accompanies stock splits, the move may provide some psychological benefits, analysts said, such as reducing the focus on the price of $175, IBM's record high set in 1987, which the stock again approached recently until last week's sell-off.
Now, IBM must provide concrete evidence of its plans for sustained earnings growth before the stock can move higher.
"The significant move upward in the second half of 1996 was based on the people becoming convinced that IBM could sustain growth of 8 to 10 percent," Nomura's Ries said.
IBM shares jumped more than $60 in the second half of 1996, reaching $170 in December.
"Not a big deal," Soundview Financial analyst Gary Helmig said of the split, noting the main effect will be to double the daily share volume of IBM, which has averaged about 5 million shares a day.
"There's no real reason for them to do this, but it does tend to make the stock go up," he said.
Analysts also said the split will make IBM more affordable to smaller investors, but was less significant for investors who manage pension funds or other large portfolios.
In its earnings report last week, IBM said profits rose 18 percent to $2 billion, or $3.93 a share, in the fourth quarter, but several analysts cut their ratings after the report, citing sluggish mainframe sales, weakness in Europe and other factors.
Salomon Brothers analyst John Jones upgraded his rating Tuesday to strong buy from buy but did not comment further.
The company said the board proposed raising the number of authorised common shares to 1.875 billion from 750 million. It said the record date for the split was May 9 and that the split shares will be distributed on May 27.
It also declared a regular quarterly dividend of 35 cents a share on the presplit shares and set its annual shareholders meeting for April 29 in Dallas.
International Business Machines Corp gave its stock a cosmetic boost with a two-for-one split Tuesday, but the luster it gave the stock may prove fleeting unless IBM can revive core business growth.
"The company's management must show how they can deliver sustained growth again before people will say 'IBM is healed,'" Nomura Securities analyst Daniel Ries said.
Nonetheless, IBM surged to 153, up 7-5/8 points, reversing a 25-point slide the stock has endured in the past week since signs of slower growth emerged in its fourth quarter results.  
Analysts and traders said the timing of the split coincided with an analyst upgrade by Salomon Brothers and took advantage of what many investors considered the stock's oversold condition after the recent sell-off.
"IBM did the right thing: they split the stock right on top of Solly's upgrade," said one trader, referring to Salomon analyst John Jones' move to upgrade IBM stock to strong buy.
"People were looking for an entry point -- they found it," he said.  
IBM's more than seven point gain contributed over 22 points to the Dow's 84 point rise Tuesday afternoon, due to the stock's heavy weighting in calculating the 30-stock index.
While the stock split was largely seen as numerical window-dressing -- doubling the number of shares traded while halving the price into the $70s of each post-split share -- the split has subtle psychological implications for investors.
Besides the initial boost that typically accompanies share splits, the move may reduce investors' focus on the psychologically important level of 175.  
That's IBM's historic high share price, reached in 1987, and a level the computer maker's shares had flirted near, but never quite reached, prior to last week's selloff.
The higher share activity should help dramatize daily movements in the stock and lift total volumes to the lofty levels seen by Intel Corp and Microsoft Corp, which can often top 10 million shares traded.
One tangible benefit of the split may be to heighten retail investor interest in the stock.  By cutting the investment necessary to buy a "round lot" of 100 shares, the stock may appear more affordable to smaller investors.  
But securities analysts said the stock split move does nothing to stoke the main engine for further stock price gains -- core business growth.
"The significant move upward in the second half of 1996 was based on the people becoming convinced that IBM could sustain growth of eight to 10 percent," Nomura's Ries said.
IBM shares gained more than 60 points in the second half of 1996, reaching as high as 170 in December.
But disappointing growth in fourth quarter hardware sales and continued economic sluggishness in European markets led Wall Street to slash ratings.
The company had told analysts that hardware sales grew only two percent during the final quarter of 1996.
"Not a big deal," said Soundview Financial analyst Gary Helmig of the share split, noting that the principal effect should be to double the daily share volume of IBM, which previously has averaged about four five million shares a day.
"There's no real reason for them to do this, but it does tend to make the stock go up," he said.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
The deal that started out as a shocking hostile takeover by the lumbering giant International Business Machines Corp of Lotus Development Corp almost 18 months ago has turned into a happy marriage, Lotus's top executive said.
"It really has been a marriage made in heaven," said Jeff Papows, president of Lotus, in an interview at Lotusphere, a conference for its business partners and developers.  "I think we spent the first year manically fixating on our own foxholes...Now there is enough trust established."  
Papows said that IBM kept its promise to leave Lotus alone and that IBM tried hard to make the deal work.  The two companies gradually began to trust each other and the synergies between them have emerged slowly but surely.
After an initial flurry of employee exits when Lotus reluctantly agreed to be acquired by IBM for $3.5 billion in June 1995, staff defections eventually stabilized to a normal industry attrition rate.  Lotus's worst fear -- that most of its intellectual capital, its employees, would quit -- was not realized.  
"There are more disastrous mergers in this business," Papows said. "I don't think anyone would have predicted this would go as well as it has."
The Technology sector has been fraught with mergers gone awry, such as AT&amp;T Corp's purchase of NCR Corp, which it just spun out again as a separate unit.  And IBM had its own unsuccessful deal, when it purchased Rolm Corp in the 1980s.
IBM chairman and CEO Louis Gerstner echoed Papows's view.  
In a brief speech at Lotusphere, Gerstner also said the merger was now working, with "irrefutable" evidence, such as the doubling of the number of seats of Lotus Notes sold in 1996, when the number of users reached 9.5 million.
Papows said that besides IBM's big financial pockets and its vast research laboratories, the computer giant also has an incredible global reach through its world-class sales force.
And Gerstner, Papows said, has become "my single best sales person."  
Papows said Gerstner recently picked up the phone to speak to the CEO of Rockwell International Corp, and after he explained how important Notes was to IBM's strategy, Rockwelll made a big investment in Notes for its corporate network.
The combination of IBM's clout and reach and Lotus's technology will help it maintain leadership in groupware, as the turf is under siege by Netscape Communications Corp and Microsoft Corp, Papows said.  
Another plus to having IBM as an owner is that the companies can work together to link corporate networks running Lotus Notes to the vast arrays of information stored in IBM mainframes and minicomputers around the world.
"There is a tremendous opportunity to unlock this data," Papows said.  "Netscape doesn't understand this."  On Wednesday, IBM and Lotus will unveil versions of the Notes Domino server for the IBM AS/400 minicomputer and the S/390 mainframe lines as part of this strategy.
Domino, Lotus's Notes server designed using Internet standards, has become Lotus's crown jewel.  
Users applauded Lotus' move to embrace the open architecture of the Internet, after many skeptics said after IBM bought Lotus that Notes was dead because of the industry's jump to the Web.
"We all heard the refrain, 'Notes is dead,'" Papows told the conference, adding that it was nothing less than masterful what Lotus has done with Notes and with Sun Microsystems Inc's Java programming language, which is used to develop applications for the Internet that will run anywhere.  
Lotus will introduce a new client version of Notes, Version 4.6 (code-named Lookout) in the first half of this year with a simplified user interface and seamless integration of Microsoft's Internet Explorer and other Web products.
The code name Lookout is a jab at Microsoft, which just introduced a feature called "Outlook" in its Office 97 suite. Another upgrade will come in the fourth quarter with Version 5.0, code-named Maui.  Maui will feature even more support of Internet protocols.
Lotus is also working on a set of so-called "applets" developed in Java, including a spreadsheet, a calendar, text editor and other pieces, to run on the stripped-down networked computers.  These applications are much less code intensive, with much of the software residing on the severs that run networks.
America Online Inc chairman and chief executive Steve Case said at this time he cannot estimate the financial impact of AOL's plan to provide refunds to customers experiencing problems with its system.
Earlier, AOL announced a plan to provide refunds and credit, upon request, to its members as a result of its recent negotiations with dozens of state attorneys general. AOL said that it hopes to have a formal agreement in place shortly.
"We are not going to estimate any numbers at this point," Case told Reuters in an interview.  
Case said the company is focusing on meeting the needs of its members.
"We are doing what is right to meet the needs of our members. We believed consumers wanted unlimited pricing, the reaction was very enthusiastic," he said. "Unfortunately, that created a situation where we had more demand than supply."
Since last week, AOL has been in talks with dozens of state attorneys general over how to resolve the "busy signal" problem its members have had since AOL switched to unlimited access for a flat rate of $19.95 a month on December 1.  
At least one state, New York, threatened to file a consumer fraud lawsuit against AOL. Other states were considering their options.
Case said that AOL's current $350 million program to upgrade its network should be completed by June, but that some cities will be able to handle increased capacity sooner.  
Case said that AOL had planned on issuing this refund and credit plan Wednesday to address its members needs and questions, and to respond to the recent requests by the attorneys general. The attorneys general then decided to hold their own press conferences in support of it.
"We felt like today we had to move forward with our program, with or without an agreement," Case said. "We were pleased at the final hour that the attorneys general are supporting it...It was a concern that our members were waiting for us to respond. If there hadn't been so many states involved, we could have responded a few days ago."
America Online Inc.'s massive refund plan, part of its effort to appease angry customers, will be offset by related cuts in its hefty marketing expenses that mgiht actually improve its near-term financial results, some analysts said Thursday.
On Wednesday, the world's largest online service -- under pressure from 36 state attorneys general -- announced a plan to give refunds and credits to subscribers fed up with repeated busy signals when they try to log on.
The refund plan is part of a preliminary deal with the state prosecutors. At least one state, New York, had threatened to sue America Online if no relief was offered to consumers.
Wall Street analysts said the moves by America Online removed a cloud that has been hanging over the Dulles, Va.-based company's stock in recent weeks.
America Online's stock Thursday rose 25 cents to $37.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.
On Wednesday, America Online Chairman Steve Case declined to estimate how much the refunds would cost his company.
Analysts said restrictions on the refunds and the requirement that customers have to request them will limit the financial impact.
"A lot of people can request refunds, but that doesn't mean they will get them," said Jamie Kiggen, an analyst at brokerage Cowen &amp; Co. He estimates the refunds will cost the company $10 million to $15 million, using "pretty aggressive assumptions" on the number of members getting refunds.
Lehman Brothers analyst Brian Oakes' worst-case estimate for the cost of refunds was $16 million.
America Online's refund plan is two-pronged. Any America Online member can request a credit of one free month online, no questions asked.
But, if they want a full $39.90 monetary refund for December and January, based on their usage, they must have used the service for less than two hours during that time.
Subscribers who were able to log on to the service for two to eight hours in December and January can request a 50 percent refund and those who were on for eight to 15 hours a 25 percent refund. Customers who used America Online for more than 15 hours will not get a refund.
Oakes said the refund expense will have no impact on his earnings estimates because it will be funded by America Online's $500 million annual marketing budget.
As part of the proposed settlement, America Online will not do any new advertising in February and ads already in the works will carry a disclaimer that users may have problems accessing America Online.
So, as America Online cuts way back on its marketing expenses, it will hold its subscriber count at 8 million. Abhishek Gami, a Nesbitt Burns Securities analyst, said this will assure America Online will be profitable in the quarter ended in June.
Gami said America Online had been expected to return to profitability in the quarter under its new accounting measures, but said the marketing cuts now give him more confidence.
"It costs them a lot of money to support new users," Gami said, because new customers get the first month free.
In November, America Online reported a net loss for its first quarter ended Sept. 30 of $353.7 million, including a charge of $385.2 million to defer its costs for acquiring subscribers, in a major revamp of its accounting practices.
Most analysts decline to estimate how many subscribers may have left America Online or how many will leave because of its problems. America Online's rivals have already begun crowing about their gains in subscribers, some of whom are dissatisfied America Online users.
Analysts are not unanimously bullish on America Online.
"They will be lucky to retain their 8 million subscribers throughout this whole fiasco," said Kate Delhagen, an analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass.
"I think there will be a huge attrition, even with their plans" to increase network capacity, she said. " ... Unless they double their network plan, there will still be a lot of unhappy people."
In China's headlong rush to develop, first in its fanatical leftwing past and then in the get-rich-quick days of reform, it has hacked or bulldozed away much of its architectural heritage.
Graceful old courtyards of Beijing have fallen victim to the development onslaught in recent years, crumbling alongside one of the earliest casualties -- the once majestic Beijing city wall.
Built to ward off invaders centuries ago, the wall was unable to withstand the inroads of its own people bent on discarding what was considered out of date.
But China's capital is trying to make amends for some of its past excesses by restoring a small portion of the wall that encircled the city until it was dismantled in the years after the communist takeover in 1949.
Residents of Beijing have been answering a public call to return city wall bricks to help rebuild a small section of the structure.
Bricks once buried in courtyards, kept as household ornaments or used as building materials have been handed over to a group restoring the wall under the direction of the Beijing city government.
"We hope to have about 115 metres of the wall restored this year," said Li Yancheng of the Beijing Historical Relics Construction Co of the municipal government.
MING DYNASTY KILNS
Some 30,000 bricks from the old wall have been donated to the project and now sit stacked on a city lot where they will be used in the restoration effort.
Workers chip off hardened soil, revealing the names of Ming dynasty kilns (1368-1644 A.D.) where the bricks were fired.
"As a child I remember helping take down part of the wall," said Li. "Adults were doing it so I joined in. Now I have a chance to put some of the wall back together."
The wall, which stood 12 metres (39 ft) tall and 16 metres wide (52 ft) in some places, was built largely in the Ming dynasty, although some parts dated back to the Yuan dynasty (1279-1368 A.D.), a period of Mongol rule.
CITY WALL CLEARED TO MAKE ROOM FOR TIANANMEN SQUARE
Large chunks of the wall were pulled down in the 1950s when Beijing's communist leaders created Tiananmen Square.
More was torn down in the 1960s and 1970s for the construction of one of the city's main roads and for the subway.
Many of the city gates were left standing, although what had been the Zhonghua Gate is now the site of the mausoleum for late revolutionary leader Mao Zedong in the centre of Tiananmen Square.
In more recent years, market-style economic reforms have sent real estate values soaring, leading to the wholesale clearing of older buildings to make way for sleak new office towers.
One such real estate project has led to the demolition of homes that had been built up against the wall. The outline of those homes is still visible on the section being restored.
The redevelopment has also revealed a bomb shelter, built nearby during tension with the former Soviet Union in the 1960s and using city wall bricks.
RETIRED SHOEMAKER ANSWERS STATE'S CALL FOR HELP
Hai Changhai, a 71-year-old retired shoemaker, is one of the Beijing residents who answered the state's call to bring back bricks taken home when the wall was demolished.
"They were in our yard and weren't doing anyone much good," he said after pedalling his tricycle across town to make a donation. "Now the state can make use of them."
Some Beijing residents point an accusing finger at the state -- and the ruling Communist Party -- for all the destruction of the past.
"None of the communist leaders wanted to protect these things," said Dai Qing, a dissident writer who has been active in preserving historical relics. "None of them spoke up."
One of the few people who did speak out was Liang Sicheng, the head of prestigious Qinghua University's construction department in the early days of communist rule.
"He was very critical of the development plans," said Cheng Zhihua, a professor at the same department at Qinghua today.
"But he had little influence because the official media did not publish his views," said Cheng.
What Liang had to say was dangerous then, and he was persecuted for his views during the Cultural Revolution, a decade of leftist fanaticism that began in 1965.
Beijing officials say there is a growing awareness of the need to preserve the past. Some residents say that may be because so much of the city's heritage has already disappeared.
Some say other factors may also play a role.
A museum may be built near the wall when it is restored and city planners soon will have another tourist attraction.
America Online Inc., besieged by complaints by frustrated customers unable to log on and facing the threat of a lawsuit by at least one state, agreed Wednesday to give some members refunds or credit.
The world's largest online service, with 8 million subscribers, agreed in principle to give customers their choice of a free month online or up to $39.90 -- the cost of two months of its unlimited service -- as a result of its recent negotiations with dozens of state attorneys general.
AOL also said it planned to hold its membership at 8 million members for the short term, until it was confident it could meet the needs of its current members.
America Online Chairman Steve Case said the company had been working out a refund offer to its members and that the attorneys general in several states agreed Wednesday afternoon to support its proposed plan to members.
"We felt like today we had to move forward with our programme, with or without an agreement," Case said in an interview. "We were pleased at the final hour that the attorneys general are supporting it... It was a concern that our members were waiting for us to respond. If there hadn't been so many states involved, we could have responded a few days ago."
Illinois Attorney General Jim Ryan held a news conference in Chicago, to announce the preliminary deal with the company and 36 states including Illinois, before AOL's announcement.
Ryan said he expected the Dulles, Va.-based company would formally sign the agreement by Thursday.
"We're comfortable with it. We think it's a good deal for consumers," he said.
America Online, which since Dec. 1 has been struggling to deal with an unexpectedly big surge in subscribers, also agreed to halt for a month advertising aimed at attracting new customers.
The proposed settlement headed off, for now, consumer fraud lawsuits threatened by at least one state, New York and under consideration by several other states. Several class action lawsuits have been filed against AOL, and AOL said this agreement has nothing to do with the class action lawsuits.
The agreement calls for customers to receive graduated refunds of up to $39.90 based on how much time they spent over the past two months logged onto AOL, Ryan said.
Any customer can demand a free month's service, no questions asked, but the consumer must request the credit.
"It's a way of saying thank you to our members for their support," said an AOL spokeswoman.
Case declined to estimate the cost of the refunds, but New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco told a Manhattan news conference he expected the refunds will cost the company several million dollars in his state alone. There are 600,000 AOL members in New York state.
Wall Street analysts said they did not expect the refunds to have much of a financial impact on AOL, because it will be cutting way back on its quarterly marketing expenses, which average about $120 million to $130 million a quarter.
"Even if you make some pretty aggressive assumptions about how many people will call for refunds, then you have the number who will qualify," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Co. analyst. "I come up with $10 to $15 million in terms of cash cost, which will be offset by reduced marketing expenses."
AOL moved to placate angry customers on Jan. 16, telling them it would spend $350 million to upgrade its network, $100 million more than it had announced in December.
Ryan said the pact originally covered 37 states, but said Missouri's attorney general backed out at the last minute to take a closer look at the proposed refunds.
AOL ran into capacity troubles after it switched its customers from a subscription plan based on the number of hours online to a flat $19.95 monthly rate for unlimited use.
Under the agreement announced Wednesday, AOL agreed to cease all new advertising for the month of February unless already contracted for. Vacco said any ads must include a disclaimer that congestion may prevent customers from getting online.
The prosecutors had complained America Online was continuing to advertise and sign up new customers even as it could not deliver the service to existing users.
AOL also agreed to hire additional operators to field calls from customers seeking to cancel the service, and will set up facilities to accept cancellations via mail or fax, in addition to telephone requests. Members had complained they could not cancel the service.
Customers in the 36 states also could contact the attorney general's office in that state to file a refund request.
Attorneys general or their aides from 20 states met last week in Chicago with the company.
"If there are fresh complaints, we can still file a lawsuit under the consumer fraud laws," Ryan said. "This does not preclude us from acting on behalf of consumers."
America Online Inc., besieged by complaints by frustrated customers unable to log on and facing the threat of a lawsuit by at least one state, agreed Wednesday to give some members refunds or credit.
The world's largest online service, with 8 million subscribers, agreed in principle to give customers their choice of a free month online or up to $39.90 -- the cost of two months of its unlimited service -- as a result of its recent negotiations with dozens of state attorneys general.
AOL also said it planned to hold its membership at 8 million members for the short term, until it was confident it could meet the needs of its current members.
America Online Chairman Steve Case said the company had been working out a refund offer to its members and that the attorneys general in several states agreed Wednesday afternoon to support its proposed plan to members.
"We felt like today we had to move forward with our programme, with or without an agreement," Case said in an interview. "We were pleased at the final hour that the attorneys general are supporting it... It was a concern that our members were waiting for us to respond. If there hadn't been so many states involved, we could have responded a few days ago."
Illinois Attorney General Jim Ryan held a news conference in Chicago, to announce the preliminary deal with the company and 36 states including Illinois, before AOL's announcement.
Ryan said he expected the Dulles, Va.-based company would formally sign the agreement by Thursday.
"We're comfortable with it. We think it's a good deal for consumers," he said.
America Online, which since Dec. 1 has been struggling to deal with an unexpectedly big surge in subscribers, also agreed to halt for a month advertising aimed at attracting new customers.
The proposed settlement headed off, for now, consumer fraud lawsuits threatened by at least one state, New York and under consideration by several other states. Several class action lawsuits have been filed against AOL, and AOL said this agreement has nothing to do with the class action lawsuits.
The agreement calls for customers to receive graduated refunds of up to $39.90 based on how much time they spent over the past two months logged onto AOL, Ryan said.
Any customer can demand a free month's service, no questions asked, but the consumer must request the credit.
"It's a way of saying thank you to our members for their support," said an AOL spokeswoman.
Case declined to estimate the cost of the refunds, but New York state Attorney General Dennis Vacco told a Manhattan news conference he expected the refunds will cost the company several million dollars in his state alone. There are 600,000 AOL members in New York state.
Wall Street analysts said they did not expect the refunds to have much of a financial impact on AOL, because it will be cutting way back on its quarterly marketing expenses, which average about $120 million to $130 million a quarter.
"Even if you make some pretty aggressive assumptions about how many people will call for refunds, then you have the number who will qualify," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Co. analyst. "I come up with $10 to $15 million in terms of cash cost, which will be offset by reduced marketing expenses."
AOL moved to placate angry customers on Jan. 16, telling them it would spend $350 million to upgrade its network, $100 million more than it had announced in December.
Ryan said the pact originally covered 37 states, but said Missouri's attorney general backed out at the last minute to take a closer look at the proposed refunds.
AOL ran into capacity troubles after it switched its customers from a subscription plan based on the number of hours online to a flat $19.95 monthly rate for unlimited use.
Under the agreement announced Wednesday, AOL agreed to cease all new advertising for the month of February unless already contracted for. Vacco said any ads must include a disclaimer that congestion may prevent customers from getting online.
The prosecutors had complained America Online was continuing to advertise and sign up new customers even as it could not deliver the service to existing users.
AOL also agreed to hire additional operators to field calls from customers seeking to cancel the service, and will set up facilities to accept faxed or online requests to cancel the service. Members had complained they could not cancel.
Customers in the 36 states also could contact the attorney general's office in that state to file a refund request.
Attorneys general or their aides from 20 states met last week in Chicago with the company.
"If there are fresh complaints, we can still file a lawsuit under the consumer fraud laws," Ryan said. "This does not preclude us from acting on behalf of consumers."
International Business Machines Corp. Thursday unveiled its first network computer, one of the first major personal computer makers to deliver the hyped low-cost computers for accessing the Internet and corporate networks.
IBM's network computer, a scaled down PC, will be priced at under $700, without a monitor.
IBM said the new computer, called the Network Station, is the first in a series of network devices it plans and will be out by the end of the year.
It will put IBM among the first computer companies to offer an inexpensive device that will link people to the Internet as well as provide typical applications such as word processing and spreadsheets.
Unlike the devices touted by other companies, including those that access the Internet and use a television screen for the display, IBM is targeting corporations and corporate networks with its Network Station.
The computer is eight by 10 inches by 1-1/4 inches and weighs 2.5 pounds. It has an IBM PowerPC microprocessor, with a minimum of eight megabytes of memory, going up to 32 megabytes, a network adaptor card, keyboard and mouse, with the monitor optional.
IBM said its Network Station offers more than a "dumb terminal" -- the name for the disk-less terminals used to access mainframes -- because it offers graphical interfaces, programming capability in Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Java language, the popular Netscape browser to access the Internet, corporate intranets and server networks.
The machine will be manufactured by IBM and Network Computing Devices Inc. of Mountain View, Calif.
IBM first talked about developing its own version of the network computer at the Fall Comdex trade show last November. It was the first major U.S. PC maker to adopt the vision promulgated by Oracle Corp. Chairman Larry Ellison, whose company is now developing software for the devices.
IBM's Network Station is based on the common standards announced earlier this year by Oracle, Sun Microsystems Inc., Netscape Communications Corp., and others.
Analysts said that IBM's move to target the business market is more practical and realistic than aiming these devices at the home, where telephone lines offer sluggish and sometimes unpredictable Internet access.
"We believe the market for network computers is much more likely to take off among corporations than it is among consumers," said Josh Bernoff, a Forrester Research analyst. "It appears IBM is taking on the right strategy by creating a corporate machine as opposed to attempting to target television set top boxes."
Analysts said corporations, many of which have higher speed network lines, also have more internal data to be accessed over their own corporate networks, instead of just accessing the Internet.
"The bonanza is to get more access to the network," said Nicholas Donofrio, an IBM senior vice president and group executive in a telephone interview. "It's what doors it opens -- more services, more servers, more software ... that's why we think the network computer model makes so much sense."
On Wednesday, while holding a customer meeting in New York, Oracle's Ellison made more bullish predictions about the Network Computer, telling reporters that he expected such machines to have "explosive growth" after a possibly rocky start-up period of between six to 12 months after the first products come out.
"I believe by the year 2000, we will sell 100 million network computers," Ellison told reporters.
"I think Larry Ellison is talking about things that are too much in the future," said Eileen O'Brien, an analyst at International Data Corp. in Framingham, Mass. "To target a device to the consumer market to just use it for Internet access is not a very compelling reason. There needs to be another feature of the device."
The Network Station will support network access via corporate intranets using Ethernet and Token Ring technology connections.
The system can access Sun Microsystems' Java language, Microsoft Corp.'s Windows NT software, UNIX, IBM's OS/2 operating system, and IBM's AS/400 minicomputers, RS/6000 workstations and System 390 mainframe computers.
China's central bank, stung by the collapse of a major trust company, is looking warily at the nation's financial system, warning of dangers to Beijing's prestige and social stability.
The failure of the China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment Corp (CADTIC) because of "serious illegal and irregular practices" was deeply embarrassing for China's financial regulators, bankers said.
But it was a vindication of sorts for those who have been trying to make the People's Bank of China more like its Western counterparts, boosting the central bank's ability to detect problems in the financial sector, they said.
That eventually could help to give it more independence from the nation's political decision-makers, bankers said.
Under a three-year, World Bank-sponsored programme, the central bank enlisted the help of big accounting firm Price Waterhouse to strengthen its accounting and supervisory abilities.
"They (central bank officials) recognised they had to improve the quality of the information they had," said J. Thomas Macy, who headed up the Price Waterhouse team working with the central bank.
"You can't make good decisions if you don't have good data," he told Reuters in an interview.
LOANS OFTEN NOT REPAID
The People's Bank of China was once seen as merely the financial arm of the government, ensuring that money allocated for lending went to the right place. Whether borrowers ever repaid was less important.
China's four, main state-run banks have a combined 134,000 branches and each branch reported to the central bank independently. That gave the central bank a huge flow of uncoordinated and often not very useful information.
A Western diplomat who viewed such reports piled up at the central bank said he asked a bank employee several years ago what the central bank did with the data and was told earnestly: "We add the numbers up."
"The data gave no idea of the state of health of the financial system," said Price Waterhouse's Macy.
That is clearly changing.
A computer system was designed for the bank's reporting purposes and a risk-based aproach to financial examination is being introduced.
Macy said an 800-page examination manual would be given to some 10,000 bank examiners.
CENTRAL BANK TIGHTENS GRIP ON SECTOR
Chinese bankers say the central bank is already tightening its grip on the financial system.
"They are checking much more closely now," said a Chinese banker in Shenzhen near Hong Kong. "They are keeping a close eye on the commercial banks."
Many foreign bankers agree there has been a marked change.
"The data collected is getting much better," said a Japanese banker.
"But more work on technical inspections is needed to bring them (central bank operations) up to international levels," he said.
Others argue that such skills are not learned overnight.
Bankers said problems similar to those that forced the closure of CADTIC this month still lurk elsewhere in the financial sector. Smaller trust companies set up by regional or local governments are particularly vulnerable.
CENTRAL BANK SOUNDS ALARM BUT LACKS INDEPENDENCE
Central bankers have been sounding the alarm over financial risk, bringing up the theme repeatedly at a recent national banking conference.
They pushed home the need for a separation of trust companies -- like CADTIC -- from banks so that banks and their depositors would be insulated from problems at trust firms.
They also made their case for keeping bank funds out of the volatile stock and futures markets.
If the central bank can demonstrate that it has taken charge of financial supervision it might find it has more room to manoeuvre in the policy-making area, bankers said.
Economic issues such as money supply targets -- or even the decision to let foreign banks conduct local currency business -- are highly politicised in China. The central bank ultimately must listen to the views of the State Council, or cabinet.
While this may be politically necessary now, bankers said they would like to see the government give the central bank a vote of confidence by granting it more decision-making authority.
Xylan Corp was pummelled to a new low Tuesday after its fourth quarter earnings came in a penny shy of expectations and the company warned a rebound may not come until fall, a quarter longer than previously hoped.
Renewed fears of a December sales slowdown at 3Com Corp further stoked a sell-off in network shares Tuesday.
Xylan fell 7-5/8 Tuesday morning to 20-7/8, a 27 percent drop, echoing the sharp declines seen in recent weeks in other once high-flying names in the computer network sector like Cascade Communications Corp and Shiva Corp.  
In published comments, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell analyst Noel Lindsay said he cut his fiscal 1997 year earnings estimate to $0.70 per share from $0.76 per share following a conference call with Xylan executives Monday night.
In the call, officials guided analysts to expect modest growth in 1997's first half, but for growth to accelerate again beginning in the September quarter, Lindsay said.
The selling spree extended to the industry's normally untouchable leader, Cisco Systems Inc, which tumbled 2-3/4 to 65-1/2 ahead of its fiscal second quarter report due after the close of trading Tuesday.  
3Com fell 3-3/4 to 58-1/4 Tuesday, its second consecutive sharp decline, and part of a 10-point retreat since company executives warned analysts last week that a sales slowdown had hit the company in December, despite a recovery in January.
Lindsay also cut his earnings and revenue estimates on 3Com for the fiscal third quarter ending later this month and for the 1997 fiscal year, citing the 3Com officials' remarks.
Traders said Cisco was tugged down in sympathy with 3Com. While the current consensus for Cisco is $0.50 per share, and whispered expectations hovered at $0.52, they said investors are jittery that slowing growth may be an industry-wide issue.  
Despite continued strength in its financial results, Ascend Communications Inc, another network equipment stock prized by money managers for its rocket-like growth, was dragged down by association with its sector, traders said.
Ascend shares fell 3-1/8 to 65-1/4 Tuesday and joined 3Com, Cisco and Xylan among the Nasdaq's ten most active stocks.
Lindsay said Xylan's shortfall resulted from a build-up in the company's sales force ahead of new product introductions in upcoming quarters. For the fourth quarer, Xylan reported $0.11 per share versus the consensus forecast of $0.12.
Nonetheless, the analyst said his reduced forecast for the first half of 1997 was partially offset by a "bright" second half outlook. While the stock has proved highly volatile, he said he was maintaining his accumulate buy on Xylan.
Adding force to Xylan's volatility is the growing short position in the company shares in recent months.
As of January 15, the short position represented 4.9 million shares, or 12 percent of the total shares outstanding, a 30 percent increase since December, according to a Nasdaq spokesman.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
Cisco Systems Inc fell more than two points in active trading Wednesday and analysts said the decline in the stock reflected cautious comments by Cisco officials about the traditionally weak April quarter.
The share weakness came despite continued strong growth in revenues and earnings for Cisco's second quarter ended in January.  Quarterly earnings were $0.51, which was a penny above published expectations, versus the year ago's $0.32.
Analysts said Cisco management was generally upbeat on company prospects in a conference call Tuesday evening.  
In published comments, Gruntal analyst David Takata said that, "The one-to-one book-to-bill ratio going into the seasonally weak Q3 may temporarily spook some investors."
Takata was referring to Cisco's rate of bookings to orders as it began its third quarter ending in April.  Cisco's 73 percent revenue growth year-to-year was well above that of rivals but down from an historic 80 percent-growth plus rate, he noted.
Takata retained his outperform rating on the stock.  Most analysts appeared to retain their favorable recommendations on the stock and left earnings estimates more or less unchanged.  
Merrill Lynch analyst Joe Bellace reacted to Cisco's results by fine-tuning earnings estimates to the higher end of his previous range for both the 1997 and 1998 fiscal years.
In comments to his brokerage's sales force, the Merrill analyst said he expected Cisco to report earnings for fiscal 1997 in a range of $2.05 to $2.10 per share, narrowing his view from a broader $2.00 to $2.10 range.
Bellace's fiscal 1998 range closed to $2.70 to $2.80 per share from the previous range of $2.60 to $2.80, a spokesman for Merrill confirmed.  He retained his short- and long-term accumulate ratings on the stock.  
Bear Stearns analyst Eric Blachno said the quarterly report was "a very solid one" and the conference call that followed "very upbeat."
He noted a slight rise in the time it took to collect accounts receivable during the January quarter but dismissed the issue by saying he believed the problem had been resolved.
"We think the company's performance should alleviate concerns in the investment community that the networking marketplace is slowing," Blachno told Reuters.  "We actually think the marketplace is strengthening."
Consequently, Blachno reiterated Cisco's buy rating, which he described as equivalent to a "strong buy" at other firms. He maintained his earnings estimates for the 1997 fiscal year ending in July at $2.10 per share and for 1998 at $2.80.
In published remarks, the Bear Stearns analyst said Cisco appears to be gaining market share versus competitors, but  the overall market continues to grow at a healthy 30 to 50 percent clip.
Reflecting confidence in the sector's health, he reiterated his recommendations on other names in the sector, including 3Com Corp and U.S. Robotics Corp as buy and Cabletron Systems Inc as attractive.
((-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736))
America Online Inc. stock tumbled Friday, a day after the online computer service reported a bigger-than-expected second-quarter loss and after some analysts downgraded its stock.
America Online stock dropped $2.25 to $35.875 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The world's biggest online service Thursday reported a second-quarter loss of $56 million before one-time charges, or 60 cents a share, for its fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 31.
Analysts on average had predicted a loss of 55 cents a share, according to First Call, which tracks analyst estimates.
After the extraordinary items, which included a charge of $74.3 million related to a restructuring, America Online reported a loss of $154.8 million, or $1.64 a share.
The company also took an unexpected $24 million charge in estimated refunds and credits for subscribers stemming from its recent network woes.
The company's switch in December to flat-rate pricing caused an unexpected upsurge in the number of subscribers and the amount of time they spent online. That led to repeated busy signals for customers trying to log on from their personal computers, angering them and drawing attention from state attorneys general in 37 states.
Under pressure from the attorneys general, the Dulles, Va.-based company agreed last month to provide refunds and usage credits.
America Online has nearly 8 million subscribers.
Smith Barney analyst Jonathan Cohen on Friday lowered his rating on America Online stock to underperform from neutral, saying that, excluding the charges, operating results fell below his expectations.
"In our view, many of America Online's extraordinary charges during the quarter were somewhat less than extraordinary and would have been more appropriately recognised as regular operating results," Cohen said.
He pointed out that America Online chose to recognise as revenues subscriber payments while at the same time treating the refund of those same payments as a non-recurring charge.
Morgan Stanley analyst Mary Meeker also downgraded America Online, to outperform from buy but details of her comments were not available.
Other analysts said the quarter was not a disappointment, but that they believed the stock fell because it became clear America Online will not break even until the quarter ended in June, as opposed to the third quarter ending in March, as previously hoped.
"They aren't going to do it because of the modems, said Nesbitt Burns analyst Abhishek Gami, who reiterated a strong buy rating. "But by doing what they are doing with the modems, they are accelerating the healing process."
America Online said Thursday it will spend $10 million to $15 million to lease 50,000 modems from a computer network provider that it declined to name. It said the move will enable it to expand its network to meet subscriber demand by April, two months ahead of schedule.
NCR Corp. unveiled Friday the prototype for a do-it-yourself retail checkout system designed to speed supermarket checkout times and substantially reduce the frustration of shoppers waiting in line to pay for goods.
The company said the automated check-out system will allow shoppers to scan, bag and pay for groceries in express lanes, without cashier assistance, making shopping transactions as easy as banking at an automated teller machine.
Following in-store consumer testing this year, NCR said it plans to introduce the self-checkout system in 1998.
NCR estimated there are more than 175,000 food store checkout lanes in the United States, with about 30 percent of those lanes operated as cashier-assisted express lanes.
"We are trying to serve the frequent shopper who has just a few items to buy on the way home from work," said Joanne Walter, NCR's vice president of future retailing systems.
The initial system is targeted at food store express lanes. Future versions will target consumer checkout in other retail environments.
Walter said initial versions would be aimed "express service" customers who have 15 items or less to buy.
Walter said the company's market research shows that 65 percent of all retail purchases involve 20 items or less.
She said the system is an extension of her company's expertise as a world-leader in retail automation. NCR was origanally known as National Cash Register.
The Dayton, Ohio-based company, the former computer equipment arm of AT&amp;T Corp., is now the No. 1 supplier of self-service automated teller machines used in banking and the bar-code scanners used at retail checkout counters.
"This is a product that will replace the retail checkout line. We are using all of our existing (retail automation) research and development to combine it into one product," Walter said.
The automated checkout system is known as SCOT, for Self Checkout Terminal. The name is also a playful reference to the national origin of the product prototype. The engineering team that developled the system is based in Dundee, Scotland.
Building on existing ATM banking machines, shoppers will be able to purchase groceries and even make cash withdrawals, without cashier intervention.
Shoppers using the system touch selected points on an automated teller menu. A screen leads them through the checkout process, prompting them to scan items and complete the checkout by inserting a debit or credit card, or cash.
The company said the system was designed to cut reduce labor costs and allow checkout staff to be deployed in other areas of the store.
"Shoppers are looking for ways to avoid checkout lines, and grocers are focusing on enhancing customer service while reducing front-end labor costs," Walter said.
Progressive Networks Inc., whose RealAudio software has become a popular way to listen to music on the Internet, Monday unveiled RealVideo, which adds sights to the sounds, and announced support from major entertainment and media companies.
RealVideo became available for free, beginning Monday, by downloading Progressive Networks' RealPlayer software from its Web site (http://www.realaudio.com). A more fully featured version can be purchased from the site for $29.99.
RealVideo delivers live, on-demand video over the Internet and the corporate, Internet-like networks known as intranets.
Privately held, Seattle-based Progressive Networks said it believed that RealVideo will do for video on the Internet what RealAudio did for audio.
Lining up to support the new software were more than 50 entertainment, media and computer companies, including Walt Disney Co.'s ABC, Time Warner Inc., Cable News Network, News Corp.'s Fox News and MSNBC, the cable TV and Web site venture of Microsoft Corp. and General Electric Co.'s NBC.
The news conference held to announce the software included an appearance by film director Spike Lee, who premiered three short films developed using RealVideo.
One of the films, which last three to five minutes and can be viewed from Progressive Network's Web site, features dancer Savion Glover of the Broadway show "Bring in Da Noise, Bring in Da Funk" talking about tap dancing and showing his 13 pairs of tap dancing shoes.
The RealPlayer software also will include RealAudio version 3.0. There are now more than 10 million users of RealAudio, the company estimates.
Progressive Networks said it planned to make money by selling the software to content developers that will use the software to transmit video over the Internet.
Video over the Internet has been problematic because of the lack of bandwidth -- that is, a data "pipeline" big enough to handle the relatively large amount of information video involves. Video over the Internet still resides on only a small part of the computer screen, with some jerkiness and at a slower rate than full-motion video.
"We are boldly going where we haven't gone before," Progressive Networks Chief Executive Officer Rob Glaser said in an interview.
The RealPlayer is designed to run on PCs with an Intel Corp. Pentium processor at speeds of 75 megahertz and above and using Microsoft Corp.'s Windows 95 or NT.
One content developer who is using the software said his firm has embraced RealVideo because it believes it will become the de facto standard in Internet video, in the same manner that RealAudio has become the audio standard.
"It gives us another tool we can use," said Ken Locker, an executive producer at MGM Interactive. "But the Internet is not television. When I say video, it's not even full-motion video, which is 30 frames per second."
Locker said RealVideo averages about seven to 12 frames per second. "It works very well and Progressive Networks is positioned to make theirs the standard."
RealVideo works by sending packets of video in a stream from a server, or network computer. If a personal computer receives only 90 percent of the packets, it sends a message back to the server asking for a retransmission.
The process, called video streaming, is not new and has been available on the Internet from companies such as privately held VXtreme and VDONet. But analysts said that, because of RealAudio's widespread adoption, they expect RealVideo to dominate.
"They have a reputation with over 40,000 content developers, which use RealAudio-equipped servers," said Jae Kim, an analyst at Paul Kagan &amp; Associates, in Carmel, Calif.
WavePhore Inc., an Arizona company specializing in wireless data transmission, unveiled plans Monday for a service that would use existing television signals to broadcast programming to personal computers.
The proposed system, called WaveTop, will allow computer users to bypass bottlenecks in the Internet by enabling them to receive programs broadcast by WavePhore, the company said.
The Phoenix-based company said it expected to begin selling its WaveTop service in September.
The WaveTop service will broadcast entertainment and information programming nationwide over TV signals, sidestepping the clogged phone lines and overstrained computer networks that slow Internet connections, the company said.
"We think we can complement the Internet beautifully," said Sandy Goldman, vice president of WavePhore's consumer unit.
Analysts consider the system one of a promising new breed of products designed to take advantage of the convergence of personal computers and television technology.
The category includes products like WebTV, which differs from WavePhore in that it relies on a phone line and special TV set-top box to provide Internet connections to TV sets.
WaveTop will initially broadcast stereo music, news, educational childrens programs and new software to home PCs, without interrupting tasks being performed by the computer, the company said.
Once it begins U.S. operations in September, WaveTop will be the first wireless data broadcast medium to deliver audio, video, software and real-time data to home personal computers, Goldman said in an interview Friday.
"This gets past the bottleneck of the phone line being busy," said Gary Arlen, a veteran online industry analyst who heads Arlen Communications in Bethesda, Md.
The system will be free to consumers who own a broadcast-ready personal computer equipped with a TV tuner, a device that several top computer manufacturers plan to include in new machines this year. TV tuners add about $99 to $150 to the cost of a PC, but prices are falling.
WaveTop would be advertiser-supported but also may offer a pay-per-use option.
Arlen said the system was well suited for transmitting information that did not require instant feedback. "For a lot of Web surfing, all you need is a way of quickly accessing things that are floating through the wires anyway," he said.
The WaveTop system operates by embedding data into a portion of existing TV signals. WavePhore has announced a pact to use the Public Broadcasting Service's 250 local stations to broadcast via an unused portion of their signals.
The high-speed service will be able to reach more than 99 percent of U.S. television households simultaneously and could eventually be extended to cover Canada over the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.'s TV network.
"It's a network infrastructure that's already in place," said Joel Krasner of brokerage firm Southcoast Capital, the one Wall Street analyst who formally follows the company.
"You don't have to have people using cable modems or fiber optic cables," said Krasner, referring  to other, more costly methods of speeding Internet delivery using phone and cable television technologies.
While WavePhore officials said the company planned to launch an aggressive promotional campaign aimed at the Christmas 1997 selling season, Krasner expected WaveTop to take root only among so-called early adopters this year.
"It's a 1998 event," Krasner said of chances WaveTop could become a hit consumer electronics product.
Goldman said the WaveTop network planned to offer one radio station in 1997 and three by 1998, playing a choice of rock, classical and jazz music.
KidsTop, aimed at children, will deliver educational programming developed by PBS and others, Goldman said.
For news, Goldman said the company hoped to negotiate deals with media companies like Dow Jones &amp; Co. Inc. or Reuters Holdings Plc to offer a slimmed-down version of what WavePhore already offers on its professional investor network.
He said WavePhore has few information partnerships to announce, but was in talks with content providers for each of the seven services WaveTop will offer. Goldman said the company expected to sign these deals ahead of the service's September launch.
The company noted that a recent study by technology research firm Yankee Group estimated that by the year 2000, nearly 20 million U.S. households will have PCs capable of receiving data embedded in a TV signal.
WavePhore's strategy has been embraced by computer industry leaders Microsoft Corp., Intel Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp., which are developing enabling technology of their own to support the integration of home computer and TV technologies.
WavePhore stock rose 12.5 cents to $9 in afternoon trading on Nasdaq.
WavePhore Inc on Monday unveiled a service that broadcasts data to home personal computers via television signals, allowing users to bypass bottlenecks in the Internet.
The company said its WaveTop service will broadcast entertainment and information programming nationwide through TV signals, side-stepping the clogged phone lines and overstrained computer networks that slow Internet connections.
"We think we can complement the Internet beautifully," said Sandy Goldman, WavePhore's consumer unit vice president.  
Initially, the WaveTop system will carry stereo broadcasts of a music radio station, real-time news, educational programs for children, and new and updated software to home PCs -- all without interrupting ongoing activities on the computer, the Phoenix-based company said.
Once it begins U.S. operations in September, WaveTop will represent the first wireless data broadcast medium delivering audio, video, software and real-time data to home PCs, Goldman told Reuters in a recent interview.  
"This gets past the bottleneck of the phone line being busy," said Gary Arlen, a veteran online industry analyst who heads Arlen Communications in Bethesda, Md.
The system will be free to consumers who own a broadcast-ready personal computer equipped with a TV tuner, a device that several top computer makers plan to integrate into their machines this year. TV tuners now add $99 to $150 to the cost of a PC, but prices are falling.
WaveTop is to be advertiser-supported. It may also provide consumers with optional higher value, pay-per-use services.  
Arlen said the system is well suited for transmitting information that does not require instant feedback. "For a lot of Web surfing, all you need is a way of quickly accessing things that are floating through the wires anyway," he said.
WavePhore's system operates by embedding data into a portion of existing TV signals. The company has a pact with the Public Broadcasting Service's 250 local stations to broadcast via an unused portion of their signals.  
This high-speed, point-to-multi-point service will have the capacity to reach more than 99 percent of U.S. television households simultaneously and is capable of being extended to Canada over the Canadian Broadcasting Corp's TV network.
"It's a network infrastructure that's already in place," said Joel Krasner of brokerage firm Southcoast Capital, the one Wall Street analyst who formally WavePhore.
"You don't have to have people using cable modems or fiber optic cables," Krasner said. He was referring to other, more costly delivery methods capable of speeding Internet delivery using phone and cable TV technologies.  
Goldman said the WaveTop network plans to offer one radio station in 1997 and three by 1998, playing a choice of rock, classical music and jazz.
KidsTop, aimed at children, will deliver educational programming developed by the Public Broadcasting Service and others, Goldman said.
For news, the company said it plans to negotiate deals with media companies such as Dow Jones &amp; Co and Reuters Holdings Plc, offering a slimmed-down version of what it already offers on its professional investor network, he said.  
Both Dow and Reuters declined comment.
WavePhore already carries Dow and Reuters news on its professional investor network.
Goldman said WavePhore has few information content partnerships to announce at this stage but is in talks with content providers for each of the seven services WaveTop will offer.
Goldman said the company expects to sign these deals ahead of the formal launch of the service in September.
WavePhore said a recent study by the technology research firm Yankee Group estimated that by the year 2000, nearly 20 million U.S. households will have PCs capable of receiving data embedded in a TV signal.
WavePhore's strategy has been embraced by computer industry leaders Microsoft Corp, Intel Corp and Compaq Computer Corp. All three are developing enabling technology to support the integration of home computer and TV technologies.
Krasner believes WavePhore may strike a deal with Pointcast Inc, a Web-based information broadcaster. The two companies already work together to provide information to corporate subscribers, he said.
((-- New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1736))
Faced with market share battles on several fronts, Novell Inc provided the outlines of a five-year game-plan that would reduce dependence on its mainstay network operating system business and diversify its revenue base into faster-growing software businesses.
In a speech to an investor conference here, Joseph Marengi, recently named president and chief operating officer, also said his company is contemplating the judicious use of its $1 billion in cash to make selective technology acquisitions.  
In response to a question, the executive downplayed persistent rumors that it is an acquisition target by saying that Novell's strategy remains focused on building its business as a "standalone" company.
"This is a company with a market cap of $4 billion, $1 billion in cash and $1.5 billion in revenues," he said. "Everything we are doing is to position ourselves to be standalone.
He declined to comment on financial results of Novell's quarter ended in January, noting that it was in a quiet period ahead of the report due out next week.  
"Business is okay," he noted in passing.
Marengi said that as part of its plan to diversify its revenue base over the next five years, the company expected its core NetWare operating systems business to decline to 40 percent of total revenues from its current 60 percent position.
He said that by 2002, the company expected 25 percent of revenues from what he called "platform-independent" or non-NetWare server products and 25 percent from network applications software such as its group communications, systems management and Internet-related software products.  
Novell's strategy is to move beyond its historic dominance of the client/server-based local area network market and into the emerging future in which personal computers connect to the wider Internet without regard to whether the connection is local or on the other side of the globe, he said.
"We are trying to get people to think about client/network computing as opposed to client/server," Marengi said in response to a reporter's question.
By later this year, he said Novell expected to displace Microsoft Corp's Exchange product as the number two electronic messaging product in the world.  
He allowed that International Business Machines Corp's cc:Mail product would continue as the best-selling messaging product in the coming year.
In the near-term, Marengi said he believes Novell will successfully defend its position as the market leader among network operating systems, fending off a growing challenge from Microsoft's Windows NT.
While acknowledging that Windows NT was gaining ground as the core operating system used to manage corporate networks, he said this was mostly concentrated at the low-end of the market among smaller and newer businesses.  
He said Novell NetWare continues to dominate in larger corporate departmental networks, and estimated that only 2 percent of current NetWare customers had switched to alternative network operating systems such as Windows NT. NT's success had come among new users, he said, and noted that the company is re-doubling its efforts to target such emerging markets.
"We want to grow through acquisitions," Marengi said of the company's plan to once again consider acquisitions to fill technology gaps in its product line. "We will make sure that any company we do acquire will fit (our overall) strategy," he said. "Nothing on the scale of WordPerfect," he said.  
Novell sold WordPerfect Corp to Canada's Corel Corp at a substantial loss last year.
Marengi said he expected the company to double its installed base of server software units to 8 million units in 2000 from 4 million units currently, as part of a plan to put its server software count at over 10 million units five years out.
Server software are products used to manage the operations of centralized computers that manage traffic on local area networks that typically tie together numerous personal computers.
NetWare is used to connect local area networks that include 60 million desktop computers worldwide.  
He said Novell expects international revenues to contribute 60 percent of revenues five years out, up from 49 percent currently. As an example, he said Novell intends to capitalize on its leading position as "The networking company in China."
The executive said the company's operating profit margins have been hovering in the 20 to 23 percent range recently, and that those percentages will "be up a little bit" by the end of calendar 1997, " but "not significantly."
He said the company's search for a new chief executive was on track and that he expected an appointment to be announced within 30 to 60 days.
He said Novell did not plan to use any of its $1 billion cash hoard to buy back stock.
Computer, give me $20.
Such a demand enters the realm of possibility with the introduction Monday of a device that turns a personal computer into an automated-teller machine capable of dispensing card-based electronic cash, marking a new step in PC-based home banking.
Fischer International Systems Corp. said its $60 device can be inserted into the floppy disk drive of any PC, enabling it to read "smart cards," a new type of plastic credit-card that can perform electronic cash transactions and store bank account balances.
Already gaining popularity in Europe to pay for store purchases and streetside telephone calls, the "smart card" is beginning to take hold in the United States as a replacement for cash used in ordinary purchases like grocery shopping.
By enabling PCs to securely dispense money, the device may provide a major stimulus to home banking by empowering consumers to perform financial transactions that now require a visit to a bank branch or an automated teller machine.
"What's been missing is a low-cost, easy-to-use 'bridge' between smart cards and personal computers," Fischer President Michael Battaglia said.
Smarty, as the product is known, is a slim piece of hardware that inserts into a personal computer's 3.5-inch floppy disk reader, allowing the machine to link via the Internet to banks or retail outlets.
Fischer holds key patents for smart card readers inserted into 3.5 inch floppy drives -- making Smarty the most readily adaptable card reader for the 200 million personal computers now in use, company officials said.
The device, which can be inserted into home or office personal computers or into a laptop computer when travelling, will enable consumers to make wider use of banking cards for purchases, replacing the need to carry loose bills and coins.
The product could be a boon to PC-based home banking, permitting full-scale transactions instead of the more limited functions now available, like electronic balancing of checkbooks, financial investment tracking or tax return filing.
Fischer officials said they were working with several major U.S. and European financial services firms to spur use of the devices in a variety of business and consumer applications, including home banking over the Internet.
In addition, Art Burton, Fischer's vice president of sales and marketing said the company was in talks with top providers of home banking software like Intuit Inc. and Microsoft Corp. to link Smarty to their software.
"We have had some discussions at various stages with the primary providers of home banking software," Burton said. "We are also working with individual banks."
Burton said the PC-based Smarty product will be offered later this year to consumers participating in a trial of smart card technology in New York City borough by a group led by MasterCard, Cititbank and Chase Manhattan Bank.
In addition, Fischer said it has received initial Smarty orders from the Bank of America and Wells Fargo Bank, for pilot testing by bank employees.
Orders for demonstration models have also come from the U.S.-based credit card consortium Visa, U.K.-based Mondex International and Sweden's Telia Group.
Smart cards contain an embedded microchip capable of storing more than 4 million bytes of computer data, or dozens of pages of information -- far more than existing magnetic-strip credit cards that hold just 40 characters or so.
The new financial data format can act as a one-stop shopping card storing electronic cash, a collection of credit cards, and other personal information including several forms of identification to prevent fraud.
While slow to catch on in the United States, smart cards have grown popular in Europe and Asia.
Fischer, with annual revenues of about $20 million, is solely owned by Addison Fischer, its chairman and a former professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Addison Fischer is considered one of the world's leading experts on computer security. He was one of the founders and principal owners of RSA Data Security Inc., developers of a popular computer security encryption technique.
Fischer faces many larger competitors in the smart card reader market, including France's Gemplus, U.S.-based Schlumberger Ltd. and VeriFone Inc., Germany' Siemens AG and Philips Electronics NV of the Netherlands. But these rival machines take the form of bulky computer attachments or standalone-terminals priced between $80 and $300.
Computer, give me $20 bucks.
Such a demand enters the realm of possibility with the introduction Monday of a device that turns a personal computer into an automated-teller machine capable of dispensing card-based electronic cash, marking a new step in PC-based home banking.
Fischer International Systems Corp said its $60 device can be inserted into the floppy disk drive of any PC, enabling it to read "smart cards," a new type of plastic credit-card that can perform electronic cash transactions and store bank account balances.  
Already gaining popularity in Europe to pay for store purchases and streetside telephone calls, the "smart card" is beginning to take hold in the United States as a replacement for cash used in ordinary purchases like grocery shopping.
By enabling PCs to securely dispense money, the device may provide a major stimulus to home banking by empowering consumers to perform financial transactions that now require a visit to a bank branch or an automated teller machine.
"What's been missing is a low-cost, easy-to-use 'bridge' between smart cards and personal computers," Fischer President and Chief Executive Michael Battaglia said.  
Smarty, as the product is known, is a slim piece of hardware that inserts into a personal computer's 3.5 inch floppy disk reader, allowing the machine to link via the Internet to banks or retail outlets.
The product is unique because Fischer holds key patents for smart card readers inserted into 3.5 inch floppy drives -- making Smarty the most readily adaptable card reader for the 200 million personal computers now in use, company officials said.  
The device, which can be inserted into home or office personal computers or into a laptop computer when traveling, will enable consumers to make wider use of banking cards for purchases, replacing the need to carry loose bills and coins.
As such, the product could be a boon to PC-based home banking, permitting full-scale transactions instead of the more limited functions now available, like electronic balancing of checkbooks, financial investment tracking or tax return filing.  
Fischer officials said they are working with several major U.S. and European financial services firms to spur use of the devices in a variety of business and consumer applications, including home banking over the Internet.
In addition, Art Burton, Fischer's vice president of sales and marketing said the company is in talks with top providers of home banking software like Intuit Inc. and Microsoft Corp. to link Smarty to their software.
"We have had some discussions at various stages with the primary providers of home banking software," Burton said. "We are also working with individual banks."  
Burton said the PC-based Smarty product will be offered later this year to consumers participating in a trial of smart card technology on the Upper West Side of New York City by a group led by MasterCard, Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank.
In addition, Fischer said it has received initial Smarty orders from the Bank of America and Wells Fargo Bank, for pilot testing by bank employees.
Orders for demonstration models have also come from the U.S.-based credit card consortium Visa, U.K.-based Mondex International and Sweden's Telia Group.  
Smart cards contain an embedded microchip capable of storing more than four million bytes of computer data, or dozens of pages of information -- far more than existing magnetic-strip credit cards that hold just 40 characters or so.
The new financial data format can act as a one-stop shopping card storing electronic cash, a collection of credit cards, and other personal information including several forms of identification to prevent fraud.  
While slow to catch on in the United States, smart cards have grown popular in Europe and Asia, where millions are now used by banks and credit card concerns as a means of storing digital cash, by phone companies as long-distance calling cards, or in healthcare to carry details of an individual's medical history.
Fischer, with annual revenues of about $20 million, is solely owned by Addison Fischer, its chairman and a former professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  
Addison Fischer is considered one of the world's leading experts on computer security. He was one of the founders and principal owners of RSA Data Security Inc, developers of a popular computer security encryption technique.
Fischer and his two partners recently sold RSA to publicly-held Security Dynamics Technologies Inc. in return for $200 million in Security Dynamics stock.  
Fischer faces many larger competitors in the smart card reader market, including France's Gemplus, U.S.-based Schlumberger Ltd and VeriFone Inc ;, Germany' Siemens AG and Philips Electronics NV of the Netherlands.
But these rival machines take the form of bulky computer attachments or standalone-terminals priced between $80 and $300.
By contrast, Fischer's floppy-insert method will be priced at $60 initially, with prices expected to fall below $40 as volumes increase in the coming year, making it an affordable option for consumers, Burton said.
Asked if the company may be considering an initial public stock offering, Burton said that, "It is firmly in our plans, but we are talking long-term -- within the next year -- not short-range."
He said Fischer plans to make another major product announcement in the spring of a related computer security technology before it decides whether to move ahead with any possible sale of the company's shares to the public.
The unexpected departure of CompuServe Corp's CEO Robert Massey may portend further woes at the second largest online service, and deeper-than-expected financial losses are one possibility, analysts said Tuesday.
On Monday, a holiday in the U.S., CompuServe said that Massey had resigned, effective immediately, and that Massey wants to "pursue other interests." The troubled online service is expected to report a loss on Thursday, when it is due to report third quarter earnings.
The First Call consensus is for a loss of $0.16 a share.  
"When a top guy leaves right before earnings, you can expect a disappointment or a restructuring," said Abhishek Gami, an analyst with Nesbitt Burns Securities. "Maybe it will be worse than expected, but I think the expectations are already low." CompuServe shares were off 7/16 to 10-3/8.
CompuServe has had a rough year, with increasingly intense competition from the leader America Online Inc.
"It is unfortunate timing, in that it was so close to earnings, because that always encourages people to connect the dots," said a CompuServe spokesman. "But in this case, the dots aren't really there. It's all really speculation."  
CompuServe said that Massey decided to leave for personal reasons, saying it has been a tough year, and that he wants to take a break from the prodigious hours he has been working.
"Clearly there are also pressures for CompuServe to return to profitability, that's no secret," the spokesman added. "But there is no direct cause and effect there."
The CompuServe spokesman also said that the Columbus, Ohio-based company has in the past issued a warning when its earnings will come in below Wall Street's expectations. It has not issued any such warnings in recent weeks. Earlier this month, Massey said its financial position had improved.  
But Massey declined to say when CompuServe might return to profitability.
Still, analysts said more bad news could come in the form of flat or even slower subscriber growth, at a time when rival AOL's subscriber base continues to soar, or perhaps from a disappointment in its successful network services division.
"He jumped before he got pushed," said Gary Arlen, an analyst with Arlen Communications in Bethesda, Md. "Their membership base is pretty flat. Their growth has been negligible, especially in a world where beleaguered AOL was adding hundreds of thousands of subscribers."  
Arlen said that CompuServe has gained new members as a direct result of AOL's recent network problems, but that these new members are "negligible."
In November, CompuServe exited its Wow! consumer business, a flat-rate, family-oriented service that it had unveiled with much fanfare. CompuServe said that the flat-rate pricing was not profitable and it will continue to focus on the hobbyists, small businesses and corporate users of its online service.
"Now at least they are focused on the business market," said Kate Delhagen, a Forrester Research analyst. "H&amp;R Block seems to think they need an overhaul."  
H&amp;R Block Inc still owns about 80 percent of CompuServe, since it went public last April at $30 a share.
Frank Salizzoni, president and CEO of H&amp;R Block, will act as an interim CEO of CompuServe, until another executive is found. CompuServe said that it has hired an executive search firm to help it locate external candidates, but it is also looking inside the company.
"We want to proceed at a brisk pace," the spokesman said, when asked if CompuServe has a specific deadline to replace Massey. "It's more important to get the right person than to get someone quickly."  
Salomon Brothers analyst Marc Usem said in a report to clients that while the short-term effect of Massey's departure is negative, it may work to CompuServe's advantage.
"A more aggressive, marketing oriented CEO may improve the company's online service prospects," Usem wrote in a note to clients, where he reiterated a buy rating on CompuServe. He said that CompuServe's Network Services unit alone is worth $8.50 to $10.20 a share.
Analysts said that while CompuServe has been hurt by AOL's success, many of the proprietary online services have closed or have seen problems as the Internet becomes more popular.
Farmers near Beijing marked the death of Deng Xiaoping quietly on Thursday, putting the hard task of making a living above memorials for the man whose reforms raised rural incomes dramatically.
Some people in this rural county in municipal Beijing offered a private word of thanks to China's paramount leader, who helped steer the nation on a pragmatic course until his death at the age of 92 on Wednesday.
Some shrugged and said they were more concerned with putting food on the family table, while others said they had not even heard the news.
"Is it true?" asked one young man as he unloaded coal from a truck, heaping it beside a small hotel run by farmers who could no longer find work on the land.
"I hadn't heard this. It's a great loss for the nation of course, but for me the main concern is making a living," he said.
Chinese state media announced Deng's death to the nation early on Thursday.
Deng, who told his countrymen that to get rich was glorious, may not have made every farmer wealthy but his policies have clearly made life easier for most.
"We owe him a debt of gratitude," said Shi Huaiqing as he leaned against a tree beside a frozen fishpond and watched his flock graze in a pastoral scene topped by a distant view of the Great Wall.
"My life is much better than it was years ago," said the 45-year-old, who thanks to policies introduced by Deng can now raise and sell his sheep privately without being branded a traitor to communism.
"Before I couldn't sell these sheep on my own," he said. "Now I earn a good living."
Down the road from this village, a 70 year-old retired farmer surnamed Zhao echoed those sentiments.
"We are much better off than before," he said, smiling a toothless grin as he sifted through a road-side rubbish dump looking for scrap plastic.
"In the old days we all ate together and worked together in the production brigades. None of us had any money but now I have enough to get by with a little help from my sons," he said.
The one-time farmer said that in the 1950s Deng had visited a village not far from where he was standing and had expressed his disgust at the harsh conditions of rural life at that time.
"He at least was concerned with our welfare," said Zhao.
But some people said they were disappointed that incomes had not grown faster and expressed disdain for a surge in corruption unleashed by Deng's economic reforms.
"Deng may have been concerned for our welfare, but many local officials still exploit us," said a farmer named Du as he sold fruit at a roadside stall near an apple orchard he tended.
"The police always come along and chase us away and sometimes throw my apples on the ground," Du said.
"I may be better off now than I was but it is still hard to make a living," he said. "We still have a long way to go."
The death of Deng Xiaoping has deprived China of the architect of reform but it has left his successor in charge of an economic powerhouse in its best shape in years, economists said on Friday.
China has attained a track record that many countries would envy -- strong economic growth, inflation in check, mounting foreign exchange reserves and a stable currency.
"I am optimistic on the economy," said Lin Qingsong, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government think tank.
"Overall, we are in a very good situation economically."
Foreign economists agreed.
"It sounds awful, but Deng couldn't have died at a better time," said a Western economist.
"They (China's leaders) are in an enviable position."
Deng died on Wednesday aged 92, leaving his hand-picked successor President and Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin in charge of this nation of 1.2 billion people.
It was Deng who helped steer China on its current economic course, wrenching it from purist Marxist policies that had brought the nation to the brink of starvation and industrial collapse in 1960.
The Deng reforms, adopted in 1978, allowed private enterprise and relied on market forces instead of Stalinist central planning.
Eventually, the scope of change became even more sweeping, embracing stock and futures markets and breeding a new generation of "red capitalists" known for their millionaire lifestyles.
China chalked up economic growth of 9.7 percent last year as it held its once troublesome inflation rate to a shade over 6 percent, well below target and down sharply from more than 14 percent in 1995.
The nation has become a magnet for foreign investment, with many of the West's biggest corporations queuing up in the search for a share of this rapidly expanding market. In the process, China has amassed foreign currency reserves of $105 billion.
Economists said remnants of the centrally planned economy still needed overhauling before communist leaders could rest easy.
"There are still many economic issues to be addressed and one of them is the state sector," said Lin of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
"State companies need fundamental change."
While many of China's private and foreign-invested companies are chalking up profits, an inefficient state sector has been unable to match those results.
About 75 percent of China's more than 100,000 state firms lost money last year. Total losses in the state sector were up 45 percent to 69 billion yuan ($8.3 billion) in the first 10 months of last year.
Economists said state enterprises were grossly overstaffed and needed to trim bloated payrolls while some companies would never make money and would have to be shut.
But layoffs and bankruptcies are seen as a threat to stability and Beijing is moving ahead cautiously on this issue.
Before surplus workers can be told to find new jobs there must be a real social safety net in a country that has neither a national pension scheme nor unemployment insurance.
Other economists said reforms were unlikely to gather pace in the months ahead as Jiang Zemin and other communist leaders look ahead to a key party congress scheduled for later this year. The meeting will make top personnel changes and chart policies for the next five years.
But economic analysts said China now has enough of an economic cushion that it can take its time and examine further reform carefully.
"The Chinese have the luxury of being able to go ahead slowly," said an economist.
China has assembled a virtual "who's who" of its Communist leaders to arrange Deng Xiaoping's funeral next week in what analysts described as a show of unity for his chosen successor.
Diplomats in the capital also said the 459-member group would draw a veil over the Communist Party's internal politics ahead of a key party congress where decisions on top jobs and future policies would be made later this year.
"This is obviously too big a group to make funeral arrangements," said a Western diplomat on Friday. "Not everyone will be making decisions."
Deng died on Wednesday aged 92. China will hold the funeral for its paramount leader next Tuesday in the cavernous Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
The ceremonies -- unlike those for revolutionary leader Mao Zedong in 1976 -- will not include a lying in state with a mourning public allowed to file past.
In accordance with his wishes, Deng's body parts will be donated to science and his ashes will be scattered at sea.
Deng's anointed successor, Commmunist Party chief and state President Jiang Zemin, is chairman of the funeral committee that includes all members of the 18-man Politburo and veterans of the communist revolution such as former president Yang Shangkun, 89, and ex-parliament chairman Peng Zhen, 95.
The list also includes Hua Guofeng, Mao's chosen successor until he was toppled by Deng.
"It is meant to be a sign of great unity and stability," said another foreign envoy.
Diplomats said the inclusion of the elder statesmen in the group aimed to lend legitimacy to the current leadership, providing a link to the party's revolutionary roots.
"This gives them some continuity with the first generation of the leadership," said a European diplomat.
But it also helps conceal the inner workings of the party as key figures jockey for position before the 15th party congress.
Broad decisions on political and economic strategy are likely to be taken at the meeting, held every five years.
Political analysts said the creation of a smaller group to direct the funeral arrangements might give too much information to the public which is normally kept at a safe distance from the party's internal workings.
The tighter the group, the easier to identify the main players, they said.
"They (party leaders) don't want to reveal too much before the congress," said the European diplomat.
International Business Machines Corp. will unveil Tuesday its third generation of its low-cost mainframes, which are almost twice as fast as current models and much-anticipated by Wall Street and IBM customers.
The computer giant, defending its still dominant position in the mainframe market, is also expected to unveil very aggressive pricing of the new systems and analysts expect mainframe prices to continue to decline even further.
"They are coming out with a very aggressive offering," said Carl Greiner, a vice president at the Meta Group.
Three years ago, IBM unveiled this lower-cost CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) technology as the future and gradually its big corporate users have been moving to the new systems, which are less expensive to make. But the CMOS systems were not as powerful as IBM's older bipolar line.
"The big users need something bigger," Greiner said. "We are now getting into the power where most people can use this machine. It will provide for 90 percent of users' needs."
Mainframes still generate the biggest bulk of IBM's product revenues, even though a few years ago they were declared the dinosaurs of computers by many analysts.
But in the past two to three years, the mainframe has indeed enjoyed a big resurgence, with growing unit volumes, although prices are still in great decline.
Helping fuel the continued interest in the mainframe as the keeper of corporate data are both the lower prices and more software being developed to enable broader access to the giant warehouses of data, including software gateways from the Internet. With IBM's help, mainframes are also being positioned as the biggest servers, or computers that manage a network, in a corporate "intranet."
So users have kept buying mainframes with lower prices amid a price war among the main vendors.
Hitachi Ltd. and its new Skyline mainframes have been gaining share at IBM's expense, because Skyline combines the older mainframe technology and the newer low-cost CMOS technology in one system, giving users more processing power.
According to the Meta Group in Stamford, Conn., in 1996, IBM will have about 73 percent of the world mainframe market, down from 81 percent in 1995. Hitachi is expected to jump to 20 percent this year, up from 7 percent last year, while Amdahl's share falls to 7 percent from 12 percent.
"Skyline is more powerful than what IBM ships today," said Steve Milunovich, a Morgan Stanley analyst.
"About half the installed mainframe base hasn't bought CMOS because it wasn't powerful enough."
So customers have been widely anticipating this latest upgrade of IBM's System 390, as well as Wall Street, which is hoping for a strong fourth quarter, fueled in part by strong mainframe volumes.
Even though the prices continue to fall, analysts said that the CMOS products are more profitable to IBM and its rivals, because they are less costly to make.
"It allows them to address more of the customer base with a more profitable product," Milunovich said. "It's well anticipated by customers.
As part of IBM's announcement, it will also unveil an upgrade of its mainframe operating system, called OS/390, Release 2.0, which will include higher security for software applications using the Internet's World Wide Web.
IBM also plans to introduce Internet gateways to its DB2 database software, the dominant database software for IBM and compatible mainframes, analysts said.
IBM also is expected to unveiled a mainframe version of its high capacity storage system, the Ramac storage device. IBM is hosting conference calls Tuesday for the announcements.
Citizens spilled into public places across China on Saturday to mourn the late leader Deng Xiaoping, acting spontaneously in the face of a lack of official memorial activities.
State television has been running endless official paeans to Deng and showing formal mourning activities organised by Chinese officials in Hong Kong, Washington and other foreign cities.
But in China itself, and especially the capital Beijing, the state has done little to encourage public shows of mourning, leaving the citizenry to do things themselves.
In Deng's home village of Paifang in southwestern Sichuan province, tens of thousands of mourners have thronged to the courtyard of his birth since the community's favourite son died on Wednesday night.
In the Sichuan capital Chengdu, people poured into People's Square on Thursday and by nightfall the crowd swelled past 10,000, many carrying candles, witnesses said by telephone.
In the absence of a Deng portrait, people gathered round a statue of China's revolutionary leader Mao Zedong.
"For us here it's tumultuous," a worker at a hotel on the square told Reuters. "Not only in Chengdu but all across Sichuan province, it's tumultuous."
The crowds thinned on Friday and Saturday, but officials were tolerating the square's use as a centre for mourning and many people were weeping openly over Deng's death. Many came on outings organised by their work units.
"There are several hundred police, traffic police and People's Armed Police to maintain order and prevent people getting hurt," the hotel worker said.
In the southern boomtown of Shenzhen, a special economic zone near Hong Kong that was Deng's earliest reform brainchild, hundreds of people filed past a giant Deng billboard which had been turned into a makeshift shrine.
The billboard stands in a square beside one of Deng's most stunning innovations, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, which Deng said proved that markets were acceptable not only in capitalist societies but also under socialism.
Mourners placed wreaths of white and yellow chrysanthemums below the billboard, some draped with white streamers bearing Deng's reformist slogans or newspaper clippings about a 1992 visit Deng made to Shenzhen to jumpstart his stalling reforms.
"We wish you heavenly peace," read one streamer. Said another: "Thank you for the reform and opening up."
"There's no public organised mourning of Deng, but I think this is better because people who come to mourn for Deng do it from the bottom of their hearts," said a policeman named Chen.
At Shenzhen's botanical garden, someone had hung a black and white portrait of Deng from a banyan tree that Deng planted in 1992. Scores of people burned incense and bowed three times in the traditional Chinese form of mourning.
"Uncle Deng, we miss you!" wailed a kneeling man surnamed Jin who had brought his year-old child. "Come child, pay your respect to Uncle Deng."
"I was shattered by the news of his death," Jin said later. "He has done simply too much for us. I can find no words to express my grief and can only repay him by working harder."
Deng's legacy of markets was quietly thriving at a nearby private floral shop, whose owner was doing brisk business selling a fresh shipment of flowers.
"Of course I'm happy. I've sold more than 10,000 yuan (US$1,200) worth of chrysanthemums today," she said.
China will aim to show U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright that improving Sino-American ties will not be harmed by the death of Deng Xiaoping, analysts said on Sunday.
They also said Albright, who arrives in China on Monday for a brief stopover on her nine-nation tour, would likely focus on maintaining momentum in the once-stalled ties, looking ahead to exchanges of senior level visits.
"China will want to make the point that it is stable after Deng's death," said Niu Jun, a specialist in U.S. policy issues at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government think-tank.
"It will want to demonstrate that there is no change in Sino-U.S. relations," he said.
Deng, architect of sweeping economic reforms that have embraced capitalist-style economic policies, died on Wednesday aged 92.
Albright will arrive in Beijing during a six-day mourning period for the nation's paramount leader and one day before the funeral. Chinese leaders have been eager to show that affairs of state will continue as usual.
Deng's hand-picked successor, President and Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin, has vowed to push ahead with Deng's programme and even outdo him.
Jiang has been in power since he was propelled to the top party post in 1989, when Deng abandoned his old ally Zhao Ziyang in a dispute over the use of force against students pushing for But Jiang now must fend off other contenders for power without the helping hand of his benefactor.
Albright, on her first trip overseas since becoming America's top diplomat last month, will meet Jiang as well as Premier Li Peng and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen.
Western analysts said Albright would not shrink from contentious issues like China's human rights record, but would chart a steady course in the vital Sino-U.S. relationship during President Bill Clinton's second term.
"The U.S. wants to ensure that its China relations are no longer scraping along the bottom," said a Western diplomat.
U.S.-China ties had stumbled badly over a range of issues including Taiwan, trade, arms proliferation and human rights.
A long-delayed visit to Beijing in November by Albright's predecessor Warren Christopher paved the way for the renewed push to put differences aside.
That new approach was endorsed at a meeting between Jiang and Clinton at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Manila later that month.
U.S. Vice President Al Gore will travel to China next month and Clinton and Jiang are expected to exchange visits over the next year.
Albright may be compelled to touch on human rights during her talks with Chinese officials as the United States plans to co-sponsor a resolution critical of China at the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
Washington may also be looking to show at least some measure of toughness towards Beijing to allay domestic concerns following allegations of Chinese contributions to Clinton's re-election campaign.
But Albright and other U.S. officials have said no one issue should dominate the relationship.
Analysts said that probably means that as for the more difficult problems, the two sides will have to agree to disagree.
International Business Machines Corp. and 15 U.S. and Canadian banks announced Monday that they had formed a company to offer a broad range of electronic banking services in North America.
The company, the Integrion Financial Network, will offer interactive banking and electronic commerce services to U.S. and Canadian banks beginning early next year, IBM and the banks said.
"With this new venture, electronic commerce will take its biggest step to date," IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner told a news conference. "Integrion is the customer pathway to an array of services ... that no bank could provide alone."
Integrion will develop an electronic bill payment system and provide software to connect to its network for member banks' customers. Consumers will also be able to access the network via the Internet or any commercial online service.
Electronic commerce, in which consumers buy goods and services via computer, could grow to $600 billion a year within 10 years, Gerstner said. By contrast, electronic commerce now runs at only about $700 million a year, he said.
"The demand is there," Barnett Banks Inc. Chief Executive Charles Rice told the news conference.
Gerstner said he hoped that companies like Intuit Inc., which has its own set of deals with banks for electronic banking software, will develop versions of its popular Quicken personal financial software for Integrion.
In addition to Barnett, banks teaming up with IBM include BankAmerica Corp., the Royal Bank of Canada, Fleet Financial Group Inc. and Banc One Corp.
Integrion will be owned and operated by the member banks and IBM. It will be open to all banks in North America.
Gerstner said his company would make money from the venture by selling the services of its Global Network and other services. He said Integrion is a for-profit company but that the companies involved will make money through electronic banking services.
Gerstner was not specific on what kind of revenues IBM or any of the companies involved were expecting from the venture.
The companies said they will use the IBM Global Network as the base network for electronic banking, a proprietary network maintained by IBM and used by many corporations as their own network or to conduct commerce with other companies.
Several bankers attending the news conference said the partnership with IBM would lower the cost of developing technology for electronic banking.
The companies said the most sensitive banking transactions will run over the IBM network, which they said is more secure than the Internet, but with connections to the Net.
Gerstner said while the Internet has become a totally new communications medium in the past two years, it is still not yet the "holy grail" companies have hoped for.
"The payoff is what these institutions do with this," Gerstner said.
Other banks teaming up with IBM are ABN AMRO Bank NV, Comerica Inc., First Bank System Inc., First Chicago NBD Corp., KeyCorp., Mellon Bank Corp., Michigan National Corp., NationsBank Corp., PNC Bank and Washington Mutual Savings Bank.
At least two bombs rocked the western Chinese city of Urumqi on Tuesday, killing one person and injuring at least 60, officials and residents said.
The blasts, on the day that China held memorial rites for its late paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, occurred on city buses in at least two separate incidents in the capital of the mainly Moslem region of Xinjiang at about 6.30 p.m. (1030 GMT).
Deng died last Wednesday aged 92 and Tuesday was the final of six days of mourning for him.
"At least 60 people were killed or injured," a local government official, who declined to be further identified, said.
He did not say how many were killed.
But a resident of the city said a trishaw driver was killed in one incident when a passenger in a bus found a bomb under a seat and threw it out of the window. The number of injuries from that explosion was not known.
There were conflicting reports of a third bomb.
A police officer at a centre handling the incidents declined to give further details, saying only: "The situation is very tense."
An official at the Military Region General Hospital in Urumqi, capital of the restive western region of Xinjiang, said at least 37 injured had been admitted after the bomb blasts. She gave no further details.
At another hospital in Urumqi, an official said two people who had been slightly injured had been treated and released.
A woman working at a hotel near one explosion said the blast ripped apart a bus and sent bits of metal flying through the air.
Police arrived shortly afterwards and cordoned off the area. Soldiers on trucks were later brought into the city, she said.
One explosion occurred on Northwest Road, involving a vehicle believed to be a minibus, a worker at a nearby hotel said.
Asked if anyone was killed, the worker said: "What do you think? With many people on the bus the chance is very high."
Nearby residents contacted by telephone said traffic was snarled along the road for about one hour and that people were being advised to avoid the area.
The explosions were believed to involve time-bombs, possibly set by members of the ethnic Uighur minority, officials said.
"We suspect that these incidents involve splittist elements," said one official, referring to pro-indepenence activists among Xinjiang's native Uighur population.
"These people want to disrupt the atmosphere during the memorial ceremonies for comrade Deng Xiaoping," said another official, referring to final rites held in Beijing on Tuesday morning for China's late paramount leader.
No arrests had yet been made, officials said.
"People have been warned not to go outside," one resident said.
It was the first violence reported in Xinjiang since anti-Chinese riots in the far western region's town of Yining on February 5 and 6 left nine people dead and 198 injured.
Chinese police arrested up to 300 people after that riot in Xinjiang -- a region that Moslem separatists call East Turkestan -- but many have been released after interrogation.
About 1,000 people, mostly Uighur farmers or unemployed young men, rioted in Yining in one of the largest and most violent demonstrations for independence in Xinjiang -- which means New Frontier in Chinese -- since the communist takeover in 1949.
Xinjiang, bordering Afghanistan, Pakistan and three mostly Moslem Central Asian states, was shaken last year by bombings and assassination attempts on officials and Moslem leaders regarded as pro-Beijing.
America Online Inc signed a hefty marketing pact with little-known long distance provider Tel-Save Holdings Inc, immediately giving AOL a big chunk of cash and Tel-Save access to eight million AOL users.
AOL and Tel-Save signed a deal to offer AOL members lower-cost long distance telephone service through Tel-Save, which AOL will promote and market to its members. AOL will get an upfront payment of $100 milllion in cash from Tel-Save, a telecommunications service provider based in New Hope, Pa.
AOL will also get warrants to buy Tel-Save shares.  
Analysts and AOL said that the deal was a boost for the company because it showed that AOL was able to put a big value on its growing subscriber base and that it can derive revenues from sources other than subscriber fees.
"This is a proof of promise," said Bob Pittman, chief executive of AOL Networks. "This is not a deal a search engine could do because they don't have the assets. We have put a number on it and we have another $100 million in our coffers."
While AOL has "plenty of cash" for its business plan, the Tel-Save deal will provide funds for general corporate purposes, though AOL must pay the $100 million back, he said.  
Analysts said that the first $43 million must be paid back over ten quarters, beginning in its fourth quarter. That is when the online company will start marketing the Tel-Save long-distance service to its members, thruogh pop-up screens asking them if they wish to enroll. A sampling will begin this summer.
Tel-Save currently offers long-distance and wireless service to about 500,000 small and medium-sized businesses. Tel-Save said its long-distance service featured lower costs than services offered by AT&amp;T Corp, MCI Communications Inc and Sprint Corp.
"These subscribers are the cream of the crop," said Dan Borislow, chief executive of Tel-Save. "This is a great use of our cash." He declined to estimate how many AOL members may sign up for its long-distance service.
AOL's warrants will let the company buy shares of Tel-Save at strike prices ranging from $14.00 to $15.50, for up to 12 million shares, if the total number of AOL members using Tel-Save reaches 3.5 million subscribers.
"They (AOL) could wind up owning over a third of this company," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Co analyst.
Tel-Sav's shares jumped 7-3/8 to 20-1/2 on Tuesday.  
To be sure, some analysts cautioned that AOL will have to compete against long-distance companies that spend billions of dollars on marketing.
"This will be the ultimate test of AOL's marketing prowess," said David Simons, managing director of Digital Video Investments. "It's AOL against 'the dime lady,'" he added, referring to Sprint's popular television commercials featuring actress Candice Bergen.
China's President Jiang Zemin used his eulogy for Deng Xiaoping on Tuesday to hail the late leader's guidance in the recovery of Hong Kong and pledge peaceful reunification with Taiwan.
Jiang told 10,000 Communist Party luminaries and other guests at the funeral rites for the late leader that Deng's great creation was the "one country, two systems" formula of allowing capitalist and socialist systems to coexist side by side in one country.
"The complete reunification of our motherland is the common aspiration of the entire Chinese nation," said Jiang, Deng's hand-picked successor, in a speech delivered at Beijing's Great Hall of the People and televised around the country.
"Using the formula of 'one country, two systems' to realise peaceful reunification is Comrade Deng Xiaoping's great creation," he said.
Deng guided the negotiations with Britain that eventually led to a 1984 accord under which the colony is to be returned to Chinese rule at midnight next June 30.
Under that agreement, Beijing pledges to allow the colony to retain its capitalist system and a "high degree of autonomy" for 50 years.
The nearby Portuguese enclave of Macau reverts to China in 1999, leaving Nationalist Chinese-ruled Taiwan as the last territory Beijing must recover to achieve its dream of reunification.
Deng died last Wednesday before seeing the recovery of any of these territories but Jiang said the Communist Party should carry out the late leader's mission.
"We must act in accordance with the teachings of Comrade Deng Xiaoping, striving to attain the objective of the motherland's reunification," Jiang said, speaking in front of a huge portrait of Deng draped in black ribbons and surrounded by bouquets of flowers.
"In accordance with the Sino-British and Sino-Portuguese agreements, Hong Kong will return to the embrace of the motherland soon and Macao will return to the embrace of the motherland in 1999," he said.
"The Taiwan question will be settled eventually and the complete reunification of the motherland will certainly be achieved," he said confidently.
Among the invited guests in the cavernous auditorium were supporters of Beijing from Hong Kong and Macau, most of them prominent businessmen, as well as Tung Chee-hwa who has been chosen to take over as Hong Kong's chief executive on July 1.
Despite its pledge of autonomy for Hong Kong, Beijing has already decided to scrap some civil liberties and replace the territory's elected legislature with an appointed one after the transfer of power.
That has raised concerns in Hong Kong as well as the United States and Britain.
Taiwan, which has been separated from China since the end of a civil war in 1949, says it too wants to reunify with the mainland but under very different terms than those offered by Beijing.
3Com Corp and U.S. Robotics Corp's merger promises to create a second powerhouse in the data networking industry capable of competing head-to-head in the Internet access business with Cisco Systems Inc.
The merger, valued at $6.6 billion in stock, represents the largest such deal ever in the computer network industry.
But analysts were divided on whether the merger by two of the top six network equipment suppliers will be strong enough to offer end-to-end network connections on the scale of Cisco.  
"No more Cisco and the Seven Dwarfs," Bear Stearns analyst Eric Blachno said, invoking an analogy frequently heard in the industry to describe Cisco's dominant market leadership.
"It appears the Cisco has acquired a large competitor," he said in reaction to the latest industry consolidation move.
However, veteran industry analyst Frank Dzubeck questioned the viability of combining the two companies in light of precedents set by previous mega-mergers in the industry.  
"This could be another Bay-Wellfleet-Synoptics deal," he said, referring to the 1994 merger that formed Bay Networks Inc, a union seen as running aground over conflicts in integrating product lines, company cultures and managements.
Similarly, Dzubeck, president of Communications Networks Architects Inc, an industry consulting firm, said 3Com and U.S. Robotics represented "two cultures, two different product streams, two managements."
"A lot depends on how they meet the organizational challenges," the analyst said of the complexities inherent in combining companies centered about 2,000 miles apart.  
3Com is headquartered in Santa Clara, Calif., the heart of Silicon Valley, while U.S. Robotics is located in Skokie, Ill.
3Com is known as the leading maker of network adapter cards used to connect personal computers to office networks. Roughly 40 percent of its $2.3 billion in fiscal 1996 revenues were derived from adapter card sales, analysts say.
By contrast, Robotics is the top maker of computer modems for consumers and other products providing Internet access.
The $1.9 billion company also sells switchboard-like data communications hubs, which Internet Service Providers (ISPs) use to handle scores of simultaneous incoming consumer calls.  
"The whole concept of those two companies getting together is a very strong one," said Paul Deninger, chief executive of Broadview Associates, a high-technology investment banking firm, when asked Tuesday to speculate on rumors of the merger.
"Robotics is a remote access company," Deninger said. "3Com has no remote access strategy. This provides them one."
While Deninger is an active dealmaker in the networking industry -- completing 24 smaller technology acquisition deals in the last 18 months -- the latest merger was managed by Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, according to the companies.  
In a conference call, executives of the two companies said 3Com's strength as a corporate equipment supplier and U.S. Robotics' strong retail presence would allow the company to compete in both local-area and wide-area networks.
But several industry analaysts said rather than allowing 3Com to compete head-to-head in every market segment of the networking industry, the merger was best seen as allowing it to create a defensible niche in important segments.  
3Com Chairman and Chief Executive Eric Benhamou acknowledged as much in saying his company's strengths lie at what he called "the edge of the network" -- selling products to connect office workers and consumers to computer networks.
"We are much stronger at the edge of the network," Benhamou said, allowing that archrival Cisco dominates the core of office networks and long-distance "backbone" networks.
Cisco's strength in the larger network equipment used to build these portions of computer networks was bolstered by a major acquisition of its own last April, when it paid about $4 billion to acquire Stratacom Inc.  
The combination of 3Com and Robotics comes no where near Cisco in several vital respects. Their combined revenues are running at roughly $5 billion a year, officials said, compared with Cisco's current annual run rate of more than $6 billion.
But Cisco's daunting advantages become more apparent when the underlying growth rates of the companies are compared.
While the 3Com and Robotics businesses are estimated to be growing at 40 percent per year -- a healthy rate by most any industry measure -- Cisco continues to outrun all major competitors by its explosive 80 percent per year pace.
"That's an amazing growth rate," Deninger said of Cisco's market momentum. "Especially since no one else in the industry is growing faster than 40 percent," he said.
Across a variety of measures Cisco remains the dominant player in the industry, followed by a 3Com/Robotics combination, Bay Networks Inc and Cabletron Systems Inc.
((New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736))
AT&amp;T Corp. -- a year after the much-hyped launch of its Internet access service had consumers clamouring for software -- said Wednesday it will end its introductory offer of free Internet access to long-distance customers.
The telecommunications giant said that after March 31 a revised pricing plan for its WorldNet Service will go into effect, but that it will continue to offer its flat-rate pricing plan of $19.95 a month for unlimited access.
AT&amp;T also said it began posting statistics about the reliability and performance of WorldNet. It challenged other service providers to match its performance, a jab at America Online Inc., which has experienced major congestion problems when its members swamped the service after it switched to flat-rate pricing in December.
"We always said it would be a one-year promotion," Tom Evslin, vice president of WorldNet, told reporters in a conference call. "It served its purpose of introducing many people to the Internet.
"Things were very different a year ago. Now, you can't turn on a sports event without seeing the URL of each team," he said, referring to World Wide Web site addresses known as uniform resource locators (URLs).
WorldNet has more than 750,000 members and said it is the largest "pure Internet" access provider in the United States. "Pure Internet" services offer Internet access only and little or no proprietary content like that provided by America Online Inc. and CompuServe Corp.
Starting March 31, AT&amp;T will offer long-distance customers who sign up for WorldNet and anticipate lower usage a monthly rate of $4.95 for their first five hours.
Long-distance customers who signed up before March 31 will continue to get their first five hours for free for a year and will be enrolled under the revised pricing after that.
Customers of long-distance carriers other than AT&amp;T can receive the service for $4.95 for the first three hours.
All hourly plan customers pay $2.50 for each additional hour and pay separately for phone access or toll-free 800 number access to reach the service.
When AT&amp;T introduced WorldNet with flat-rate pricing a year ago, it shocked the online services industry, which feared competition from the telecommuniations giant with access to so many long-distance telephone customers.
But still, analysts said that AT&amp;T must be disappointed with its current subscriber count of over 750,000, since its entry into the online services was so feared and analysts estimated it would rapidly gain millions of users.
By contrast, No. 1 online service AOL has over 8 million subscribers.
"It's safe to say they must be disappointed with their subscriber growth," said Gregory Wester, a research director at the Yankee Group. "They have a 60 percent share of the long-distance market and a single-digit share of Internet access mareket." Wester uses 18 million users as the current number of the total Internet access market.
AT&amp;T stock dropped 37.5 cents to $40.75 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
A group of 28 computer and communications equipment makers -- missing a major modem manufacturer -- Wednesday announced a coalition to develop a common standard for a new generation of faster modems running at speeds up to 56 kilobits per second.
Missing from the coalition was U.S. Robotics Corp., the industry's leading maker of consumer modems and the company credited with pioneering development of 56-kilobit modems, which began shipping its products earlier this week.
U.S. Robotics and 3Com Corp. later announced that 3Com would buy U.S. Robotics in a deal valued at $6.6 billion.
Faster modems will dramatically cut the time it takes to access a Web page or download software to a personal computer. The 56-kilobit-per-second speed would effectively double the speed of current 28.8-kilobit-per-second modems.
The standards group is backed by other makers of modems and related products like Rockwell International Corp., Lucent Technologies Inc. and Motorola Inc.
Backers of the industry standards effort, to be known as the Open 56 Forum, include leading data and telecommunications equipment makers, semiconductor suppliers and personal computer manufacturers.
Twenty-eight companies in all signed up initially. In a conference call, supporters of the initiative said the forum would welcome the participation of any company willing to create interoperable 56-kilobit modems, including U.S. Robotics.
"We have approached U.S. Robotics directly ... to join," said David Mays, an official at Ascend Communications Inc., a driving force behind the effort to create a common standard.
But before industry unification can be achieved, the standards-setting group may have to do a better job of encouraging key industry players to participate.
A spokeswoman for U.S. Robotics said the company was first invited to join the Open 56K Forum less than one hour before the group's announcement was released Wednesday afternoon.
Asked if U.S. Robotics would consider joining the Open 56K Forum, spokeswoman Sarah Powers responded, "Definitely. We are actively seeking interoperability" in the industry.
She said Robotics was actively considering participating in the forum's first meeting, slated to be held March 27.
While Robotics is the first to ship actual products, several vendors have said they plan to ship products in March.
For example, Motorola introduced two 56-kilobit modems Wednesday, the Modemsurfr 56K and the Voicesurfr 56K. A spokeswoman said the modems will be available by mid-March.
Until an industrywide standard is created, modems from each supplier will remain incompatible when communicating with modems offered by other suppliers.
There is wide agreement within the industry that failure to agree on a common standard will create confusion among consumers, delaying acceptance of the higher-speed technology.
International Business Machines Corp. and 15 U.S. and Canadian banks announced Monday that they had formed a company to offer a broad range of electronic banking services in North America, the latest in several ventures seeking to jump start banking from home PCs.
The company, the Integrion Financial Network, will offer interactive banking and electronic commerce services to U.S. and Canadian banks beginning early next year.
"With this new venture, electronic commerce will take its biggest step to date," IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner told a news conference, in a rare public appearance. "Integrion is the customer pathway to an array of services ... that no bank could provide alone."
Integrion will develop an electronic bill payment system and provide software to connect to its network for member banks' customers. Consumers will also be able to access the network via the Internet or any commercial online service.
Electronic commerce, in which consumers buy goods and services via computer, could grow to $600 billion a year within 10 years, Gerstner said. By contrast, electronic commerce now runs at only about $700 million a year, he said.
"The demand is there," Barnett Banks Inc. Chief Executive Charles Rice told the news conference.
"There is a very important parallel here," said Gerstner, who was once also the president of American Express. "A group of banks created a product called credit cards... That is exactly what I think will happen here."
Gerstner said he believed Integrion was providing a system and a platform for a whole new banking service opportunity.
Gerstner said he hoped that companies like Intuit Inc., which has its own set of deals with banks for electronic banking software, would develop versions of its popular Quicken personal financial software for Integrion.
In addition to Barnett, banks teaming up with IBM include BankAmerica Corp., the Royal Bank of Canada, Fleet Financial Group Inc. and Banc One Corp.
Integrion will be owned and operated by the member banks and IBM. It will be open to all banks in North America.
Gerstner said his company would make money from the venture by selling the services of its Global Network and other services. He said Integrion is a for-profit company but that the companies involved will make money through electronic banking services.
Gerstner was not specific on what kind of revenues IBM or any of the companies involved were expecting from the venture.
The companies said they will use the IBM Global Network as the base network for electronic banking, a proprietary network maintained by IBM and used by many corporations as their own network or to conduct commerce with other companies.
Several bankers attending the news conference said the partnership with IBM would lower the cost of developing technology for electronic banking.
The companies said the most sensitive banking transactions will run over the IBM network, which they said is more secure than the Internet, but with connections to the Net.
Gerstner said while the Internet has become a totally new communications medium in the past two years, it is still not yet the "holy grail" companies have hoped for.
"The payoff is what these institutions do with this," Gerstner said.
Some analysts, however, said if the alliance took too long to get its software out the door, it could run the risk of being overshadowed by recent developments in Internet security, such as the use of longer encryption codes and digital signatures which verify the author of a transaction.
"The marketplace has changed a lot in the past two years," said Karen Epper, an analyst at Forrester Research. "There has been a marked change in the perception of the Internet. The security options that are coming into existence now will make online banking more secure than even private dial-up."
"The Internet seems best suited for sharing information and not for conducting (business) because of the lack of security," Robert Gillespie, chief executive of KeyCorp, one of the bank partners with IBM said. "We think the reason its grown rather slowly in terms of commerce being conducted is because of the lack of a private secure network to do transactions on."
Epper pointed out that some banks, such as Wells Fargo Co. and BankAmerica Corp. already offer customers the ability to pay bills and access their accounts, via the banks' Web sites.
Other banks teaming up with IBM are ABN AMRO Bank NV, Comerica Inc., First Bank System Inc., First Chicago NBD Corp., KeyCorp., Mellon Bank Corp., Michigan National Corp., NationsBank Corp., PNC Bank and Washington Mutual Savings Bank.
Three time-bombs planted on buses blew up in rapid succession in China's restive far west, killing at least four people and shattering the nation's calm in the delicate aftermath of the death of patriarch Deng Xiaoping.
Police patrolled streets and checked suspicious bags and packages on Wednesday in Urumqi, capital of the mainly Moslem region of Xinjiang, following the blasts in the city on Tuesday afternoon.
"I think at least four to five people were killed, including one child who died instantly," said a Xinjiang television station official, who declined to be identified.
The blasts, which officials said wounded at least 60, occurred within minutes in separate parts of the city, which is the centre of Chinese control over the region and its ethnic Uighur population.
"People are full of fear, and the city is on high alert," the TV station official said.
It was the first violence reported in Xinjiang, a region that Moslem separatists call East Turkestan, since anti-Chinese riots in Yining on February 5 and 6 left nine people dead.
No one has claimed responsibility for Tuesday's blasts. Xinjiang, bordering Afghanistan, Pakistan and three mostly Moslem Central Asian states, was shaken last year by attacks on officials and Moslem leaders regarded as pro-Beijing.
Chinese leaders have expressed concern over the threat from Islamic fundamentalism, visiting Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy said in Beijing.
"I think we have a very similar view on this," he said.
"Every attempt to turn religion into a weapon becomes extremely dangerous, it is something that knows no boundaries," Levy said. "It is like sand, it can be transported by the wind from one place to to another."
Tuesday's bombs exploded at around 6.40 p.m. (1040 GMT). "People in Urumqi usually finish work at seven, so not too many people were injured or killed," the TV official said.
Urumqi residents recounted Tuesday's few minutes of terror.
"The Number 44 bus exploded near the agricultural bank," said a young Uighur woman. "A trishaw driver was killed, he was lying on the ground covered with blood.
"All the windows of the bus were broken. Several minutes later, police sealed the spot. Policemen, riot police and armed police could be seen everywhere," she added.
"Residents were ordered to stay at home or at their (work) units. We are terrified. Many people go to work by taxi or buses provided by the units," she said.
Another bomb wrecked a Number Two bus, tearing off the roof. The third explosion was on a Number 10 bus, but no details were available.
"When I heard the explosion, I felt as if the sky had collapsed," said a Uighur witness. "Many people in a store rushed out to look. I was too terrified to go out.
"Today buses are running again, but there are policemen at every station, they check people and bags," the witness said.
"I hate the people making the explosions. Our life is much better than before. I don't understand why they destroy stability and make trouble for ordinary people.
Number Two buses have been a target before.
"This kind of explosion happened in 1992, I think, as the Number Two bus runs on the major route through downtown," said a bus station worker.
The explosions occurred as final rites were being observed in far-off Beijing for Deng Xiaoping, the paramount leader who strictly enforced the integrity of China against separatist threats.
America Online Inc. signed a hefty marketing pact Tuesday with little-known long-distance provider Tel-Save Holdings Inc., immediately giving the online service a big chunk of cash and Tel-Save access to 8 million America Online subscribers.
The two companies signed a deal to offer America Online members lower-cost long-distance telephone service through Tel-Save, which America Online will promote and sell to its members.
America Online will get an upfront payment of $100 million in cash from Tel-Save, a telecommunications provider based in New Hope, Pa. The online service will also get warrants to buy Tel-Save shares.
The announcement fuelled a rally by Tel-Save stock, which climbed $7.375 to $20.50 on Nasdaq, making it one of the biggest percentage gainers on the exchange.
America Online stock rose $1.125 to $36.625 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Analysts and America Online said the deal was a boost for the world's No. 1 online service because it showed the company was able to put a big value on its growing subscriber base and that it could derive revenues from sources other than subscriber fees.
"This is a proof of promise," Bob Pittman, chief executive officer of AOL Networks, said in an interview. "This is not a deal a (Web) search engine could do because they don't have the assets. We have put a number on it and we have another $100 million in our coffers."
Pittman said that while Dulles, Va.-based America Online currently has "plenty of cash" for its business plan, this is additional cash for general corporate purposes. But America Online must pay the $100 million back.
Analysts said the first $43 million must be paid back over 10 quarters, beginning in its fourth quarter, when America Online begins to market the Tel-Save long-distance service to its members, through pop-up screens which will ask members if they wish to enroll. A sampling will begin this summer.
Tel-Save currently offers long-distance and wireless service to about 500,000 small and medium-sized businesses. Tel-Save said its long-distance service costs less than that from giants like AT&amp;T Corp., MCI Communications Inc. and Sprint Corp.
"These subscribers are the cream of the crop," said Dan Borislow, chief executive of Tel-Save. "This is a great use of our cash." He declined to estimate how many America Online members may sign up for long-distance service.
America Online's warrants will allow it to buy shares of Tel-Save at prices ranging from $14 to $15.50, for up to 12 million shares, if the total number of America Online members using Tel-Save reaches 3.5 million subscribers. "They (AOL) could wind up owning over a third of this company," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Co. analyst.
However, some analysts pointed out that America Online will be competing against the long-distance companies, which spend billions of dollars on marketing.
"This will be the ultimate test of AOL's marketing prowess," said David Simons, managing director of Digital Video Investments.
"It's AOL against 'The Dime Lady,'" he added, referring to Sprint's popular television commercials featuring actress Candice Bergen.
Shares of network stocks fell on Thursday amid fears that 3Com Corp's merger with U.S. Robotics Corp would heap new burdens on an industry already struggling with a raft of near-term issues.
Analysts said the $7.3 billion merger plan boosted pressure on other network players to use their discounted shares as currency to fund major acquisitions of their own.
Some said 3Com's $7.3 billion offer for U.S. Robotics stock and options put a low-ball valuation on the modem maker of 20 times 1997 earnings, versus a historic 25 times multiple.  
"If anything this deal is more of a take-under than a takeover," Salomon analyst Peter Swartz said of the 3Com deal.
"This deal says the days of the 35 to 40 percent premiums paid in previous networking acquisitions are over," Swartz said, noting many stocks were now trading at historic lows.
"Both stocks are down 50 percent from their highs," he pointed out.
By midafternoon, U.S. Robotics shares were up 1/4 at 61-1/4, well below the 68-1/4 contemplated by the terms of 3Com's merger offer. 3Com stock was off 3-1/2 points at 35-1/2.  
Donaldson Lufkin analyst Eric Buck harshly criticized the terms of the deal. "I think U.S. Robotics shareholders are being robbed," he said.
In the wake of the deal, industry leader Cisco Systems Inc was down 2-1/8 to 56, Ascend Communications Inc lost 4-3/8 points to 58 and Cascade Communications Corp was down 2-1/8 to 30-1/2.
"We believe the competitive landscape of the networking sector is undergoing a fundamental restructuring," J.P. Morgan's Bill Rabin said in published comments. "Other networking vendors will have to combine or be bought."  
Still, Rabin reiterated buy ratings on four stocks in the sector, while maintaining his market perform rating on 3Com. Swartz also kept his buy rating on 3Com shares, and recommended investors take advantage of price weakness.
The main beneficiaries of the 3Com-Robotics deal appeared to be Bay Networks Inc and Shiva Corp -- two stocks that have sat in the doghouse for some time -- based on their potential as acqusition targets, analysts said.
Shiva rose 9/16 to 15-13/16, recovering from its historic low, while Bay added 1/8 to 19-3/8.  
In comments to his sales force, Merrill analyst Joe Bellace said Shiva, among other remote access suppliers, may be a more likely acquisition target over the next two years in light of the 3Com-Robotics deal, market sources said.
"The merger forces other players in the industry to ante up to play in this bigger game," said Steve Harmon, an independent analyst who publishes the Internet Stock Report.
"It forces equipment makers to look for end-to-end solutions supplying network products to both businesses and consumers," he said of how the 3Com-Robotics merger would allow the combined company to compete in both markets.  
Strong break-up penalties the 3Com-Robotics deal would levy if either party backs out, makes it unlikely another suitor will arise with a sweeter offer, analysts said.
Earnings shortfalls, or close calls, fears of slowing industry growth, and cautionary comments from 3Com, Cascade and Shiva have excited fears about the whole sector, Rabin said.
In addition, technology changes in the industry and the growing threat of competition from outsiders such as chip makers Intel Corp and Rockwell International Corp have weighed down the prospects for the industry as a whole.
Some analysts cited fears that Intel may decide to integrate network adapter cards or modem chips directly into the computer chassis its builds, rendering stand-alone products from many network suppliers a commodity, if not obsolete.
((--E. Auchard, Wall Street Bureau, 212-859-1736))
The proposed $6.6 billion acquisition of modem maker U.S. Robotics Corp. by computer network equipment manufacturer 3Com Corp. triggered a drop Thursday in the stocks of 3Com, U.S. Robotics and other major network companies.
Santa Clara, Calif.-based 3Com's stock fell $4 to $35 and was the most heavily traded issue on Nasdaq, with more than 40 million shares changing hands. U.S. Robotics dropped $1.875 to $59.125, also on Nasdaq, and was the second-most active share.
Analysts said the proposed stock swap unveiled Wednesday undervalued Skokie, Ill.-based U.S. Robotics, the world's leading maker of computer modems for the consumer market.
"I think U.S. Robotics shareholders are being robbed," said Donaldson Lufkin analyst Eric Buck, who harshly criticised the terms of the deal.
Several analysts said the offer -- involving stock and options valued at $7.3 billion in all -- put a low-ball value on U.S. Robotics of 20 times annual earnings vs. its historic multiple of 25.
"If anything, this deal is more of a take-under than a takeover," Salomon analyst Peter Swartz said of the 3Com deal. "Both stocks are down 50 percent from their highs." Swartz noted that many network stocks are trading at historic lows.
The merger, if approved by shareholders and government regulators, would create a combined company with $5 billion in annual revenues and 12,000 employees -- second only to leader Cisco Systems Inc. with more than $6 billion in annual revenues. The merger also comes as the Internet and other computer networks continue to grow in importance.
Analysts said the deal put pressure on other network equipment players to use their shares to fund major acquisitions of their own.
"We believe the competitive landscape of the networking sector is undergoing a fundamental restructuring," J.P. Morgan analyst Bill Rabin said in published comments. "Other networking vendors will have to combine or be bought."
Along with 3Com and U.S. Robotics, network company stocks were among the most actively traded on Nasdaq Thursday.
Cisco Systems fell $3.06 to $55.06, Ascend Communications Inc. dropped $5.375 to $57, and Cascade Communications Corp. slipped $2.50 to $30.125.
Still, Rabin reiterated "buy" ratings on four stocks in the sector, while maintaining his "market perform" rating on 3Com. Swartz also kept his "buy" rating and recommended investors buy 3Com shares while the price is low.
The main beneficiaries of the 3Com-Robotics deal appeared to be Bay Networks Inc. and Shiva Corp. -- two stocks that have sat in the doghouse for some time -- based on their potential as acquisition targets, analysts said.
Shiva rose 62.5 cents to $15.875 on Nasdaq, recovering from its historic low, while Bay added 12.5 cents to $19.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The merger forces other players in the industry to ante up to play in this bigger game," said Steve Harmon, an independent financial analyst who publishes the Internet Stock Report.
"It forces equipment makers to look for end-to-end solutions supplying network products to both businesses and consumers," he said, referring to how the 3Com-Robotics merger would allow the combined company to compete in both markets.
The pressure to do deals adds to the burdens already weighing on the computer network industry, analysts said.
Earnings shortfalls or close calls, fears of slowing industry growth and cautionary comments from 3Com, Cascade and Shiva have triggered fears about the whole sector, Rabin said.
In addition, technology changes in the industry and the growing threat of competition from outsiders like chip makers Intel Corp. and Rockwell International Corp. have dimmed the outlook for the industry as a whole.
Some analysts cited fears that Intel may decide to integrate network adapter cards or modem chips directly into the computer chassis it builds, rendering stand-alone products from many network suppliers a commodity -- if not obsolete.
Computer network company 3Com Corp. will acquire modem giant U.S. Robotics in a deal valued at $6.6 billion, the companies said Wednesday, in a deal that would create a counterweight to industry powerhouse Cisco Systems Inc.
The merger -- the largest ever in the computer network industry -- will create a company with more than $5 billion in annual revenues and more than 12,000 employees in 130 countries, U.S. Robotics and 3Com said.
Under terms of the deal announced after markets closed, each share of U.S. Robotics will be swapped for 1.75 shares of 3Com. The deal is valued at $6.6 billion based on the $39.125 Tuesday closing price of 3Com stock, the companies said.
3Com closed Wednesday down 12.5 cents at $39 and U.S. Robotics was down 50 cents at $61, both on Nasdaq.
The companies said the merger would create a company that would provide end-to-end equipment for computer networks.
U.S. Robotics, based in Skokie, Ill., is the world's largest maker of consumer modems, which enable personal computer users to connect to the Internet and online services and to send and receive faxes from their PCs. Santa Clara, Calif.-based 3Com is one of the biggest computer networking companies.
Industry analysts were divided over whether the merger of two of the top six network equipment suppliers would be enough to offer one-stop shopping for network equipment on the scale of No. 1 company Cisco Systems Inc.
"No more 'Cisco and the Seven Dwarfs'," Bear, Stearns analyst Eric Blachno said, invoking a nickname frequently heard in the industry to describe Cisco's dominant position. "It appears the Cisco has acquired a large competitor."
Veteran industy analyst Frank Dzubeck, however, questioned the viability of combining the two companies in light of precedents set by previous mega-mergers in the industry.
"This could be another Bay-Wellfleet-Synoptics deal," he said, referring to the 1994 merger that formed Bay Networks Inc. That merger ran into problems over conflicts in combining product lines, company cultures and management teams, analysts have said.
The U.S. Robotics-3Com deal calls for 3Com Chairman Eric Benhamou to remain chairman and chief executive officer of the combined company. U.S. Robotics Chairman and Chief Executive Casey Cowell will join 3Com's board as vice chairman.
"The combination of 3Com and U.S. Robotics dramatically alters the networking landscape with the industry's broadest set of innovative, feature-rich network access solutions," said Benhamou. "Together, with an installed base of over 100 million network connections, we can offer network users the fastest access to their local and wide area networks.
Cowell said, "By providing faster, more intelligent, and easier-to-use products for connecting the broadest array of users to local and wide area networks, we can accelerate the deployment of networking worldwide."
Cowell founded the company in 1976 with four college friends, working day and night in a windowless workroom above a military surplus store in Chicago.
U.S. Robotics, known for its Sportster and Courier modems and for being the first to market with 56-kilobit-per-second modem technology, became the darling of Wall Street in its relatively short stint, taking advantage of the Internet craze of the 1990s.
"They've become the bride, one of the most prized catches of networking," said Amar Senan, an analyst for investment bankers Volpe, Welty &amp; Co.
"They've come from a humble analogue company to one of the most formidable networking companies," Senan said. "They started with 300 (bits per second) modems" and just this week shipped their first 56 kilobit "x2" modems.
The company's first modems were sold under the names of Apple Computer Inc. and Commodore Computers. In 1987, the company began to focus on selling its own brand of products and posted revenues of $21 million. For fiscal 1996 which ended on Sept. 30, U.S. Robotics reported revenues of $1.98 billion.
U.S. Robotics went public in October of 1991 at $13 a share. After stock splits, a $1,000 investment made in 1991 is worth about $30,000, Cowell said.
3Com Corp Chairman Eric Benhamou said he plans to use the company's proposed merger with U.S. Robotics Corp to expand the reach of 3Com's office-oriented equipment into small business and home markets.
In a telephone interview Wednesday evening after the announcement of the $7.3-billion-merger (on a fully-diluted basis), Benhamou said a key force behind the deal was the prospect of enlarging the market for its corporate network equipment into retail sales channels.
As the leading supplier of modems, U.S. Robotics' strong presence in retail outlets can be used to propel sales of 3Com's core network adapter card business, he said.
3Com is by far the world's dominant supplier of adapters, or network interface cards (NICs), used to link personal computers to networks.
"Our OfficeConnect product line is perfect for the retail market," Benhamou said, referring to products it introduced in 1996 that repackage its other corporate office equipment -- hubs, switches and routers -- for small business and home users.
OfficeConnect products link the computers, printers, modems and telephones found in home offices in a low-cost network.  
Benhamou also sees opportunities to sell U.S. Robotics modem products for desktop and laptop computers to corporate offices using 3Com's 500-strong enterprise sales force.
"We will just leverage Robotics strength in retail outlets," he said in reference to his plan to shoe horn 3Com equipment into consumer markets that -- until the recent demand explosion for Internet links -- was largely confined to office networks.
"(The new demand for network connections) even reaches into your shirt pocket with products like Pilot," he said. Pilot, a product 3Com will acquire in the merger, is a shirt-pocket sized personal information organizer that offers ties to the Internet.
Further growth will come from Robotics efforts to develop higher speed modems like the 56 kilobit ones it introduced on Monday and future cable modem and digital subscriber line modems that transit up to six megabits per second.
He said the merger would also give 3Com access to a growing base of telco carrier customers who use Robotics hubs equipment to provide Internet dial-up services, saving 3Com from having to invest on its own to enter the Wide Area Network (WAN) market.  
Robotics focuses heavily on WANs, providing equipment for both ends of an Internet connection: modems for consumers and hub connections for service providers. Fifty percent of its revenue come from modems, a third from hub equipment and about 20 percent from sales of Pilot and miscellaneous products.
"As far as technology is concerned, we are very focused on LANs," Benhamou said, contrasting his company's traditional focus on local area networks (LAN) found in corporate offices.
Of 3Com's $2.3 billion in fiscal 1996 revenues, 40 percent came from network adapter cards and 60 percent from sales of hubs, switches and routers systems, largely to corporations.
"We only have about one to two percent overlap in terms of product revenues," Benhamou said of the two companies.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Computer network company 3Com Corp. will acquire modem giant U.S. Robotics in a deal valued at $6.6 billion, the companies said Wednesday, in a deal that would create a counterweight to industry powerhouse Cisco Systems Inc.
The merger -- the largest ever in the computer network industry -- will create a company with more than $5 billion in annual revenues and more than 12,000 employees in 130 countries, U.S. Robotics and 3Com said.
Under terms of the deal announced after markets closed, each share of U.S. Robotics will be swapped for 1.75 shares of 3Com. The deal is valued at $6.6 billion based on the $39.125 Tuesday closing price of 3Com stock, the companies said.
3Com closed Wednesday down 12.5 cents at $39 and U.S. Robotics was down 50 cents at $61, both on Nasdaq.
The companies said the merger would create a company that would provide end-to-end equipment for computer networks.
U.S. Robotics, based in Skokie, Ill., is the world's largest maker of consumer modems, which enable personal computer users to connect to the Internet and online services and to send and receive faxes from their PCs. Santa Clara, Calif.-based 3Com is one of the biggest computer networking companies.
Industry analysts were divided over whether the merger of two of the top six network equipment suppliers would be enough to offer one-stop shopping for network equipment on the scale of No. 1 company Cisco Systems Inc.
"No more 'Cisco and the Seven Dwarfs'," Bear, Stearns analyst Eric Blachno said, invoking a nickname frequently heard in the industry to describe Cisco's dominant position. "It appears the Cisco has acquired a large competitor."
Veteran industy analyst Frank Dzubeck, however, questioned the viability of combining the two companies in light of precedents set by previous mega-mergers in the industry.
"This could be another Bay-Wellfleet-Synoptics deal," he said, referring to the 1994 merger that formed Bay Networks Inc. That merger ran into problems over conflicts in combining product lines, company cultures and management teams, analysts have said.
The U.S. Robotics-3Com deal calls for 3Com Chairman Eric Benhamou to remain chairman and chief executive officer of the combined company. U.S. Robotics Chairman and Chief Executive Casey Cowell will join 3Com's board as vice chairman.
"The combination of 3Com and U.S. Robotics dramatically alters the networking landscape with the industry's broadest set of innovative, feature-rich network access solutions," said Benhamou. "Together, with an installed base of over 100 million network connections, we can offer network users the fastest access to their local and wide area networks.
Cowell said, "By providing faster, more intelligent, and easier-to-use products for connecting the broadest array of users to local and wide area networks, we can accelerate the deployment of networking worldwide."
The merger, which is subject to approval by government regulators and shareholders, is expected to close this summer and is expected to result in a one-time charge against earnings in that quarter.
The deal is also expected to be slightly dilutive to the combined companies' earnings, but that will be offset by expected cost savings from the merger, 3Com Chief Financial Officer Chris Paisley said in a conference call with analysts and reporters.
The deal could revitalise interest in networking stocks, which have met with stiff selling pressure in the wake of earnings and sales warnings from several companies in recent weeks, Prime Charter Ltd. Chief Investment Strategist Scott Bleier said.
"This should heat up the networking sector," Bleier said. "This is a mega-merger and you can probably expect other big companies like Cisco and Ascend (Communications Corp.) are going to be on the prowl."
According to Instinet, several networking shares traded higher in after-hours activity. Cascade Communications Corp. rose to $33 from a regular session closing price of $32.625, and Cisco Systems Inc. traded at $58.50, up from a close of $58.125.
The stock of networking software company Citrix Systems Inc. lost almost 60 percent of its value Thursday amid concerns that its core product might face competition from industry behemoth Microsoft Corp.
Citrix shares tumbled $15.625 to $10.625 in heavy trading, with over 13.8 million shares changing hands.
Late Wednesday, Citrix said it was told by Microsoft that Microsoft was looking to develop multi-user features in its increasingly popular Windows NT operating system that would compete with Citrix's WinFrame software that lets users of multiple computers acccess Windows NT.
Microsoft later said it does have a product team working on such a software project, Microsoft Senior Vice President Jim Allchin said Thursday.
"We have a development team under way," Allchin said in a phone interview. He also said Microsoft is "always talking" to other companies about licensing technology.
Allchin said Microsoft will end up offering the multi-user capability to its users in Windows NT, but it has yet to decide if the technology will come from its own development, from Citrix, or from another company.
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.-based Citrix said Wednesday that if Microsoft decided to develop features that would compete with its WinFrame technology, it would hurt Citrix's finances, but it did not give any specifics.
A Citrix spokeswoman said the licensing talks were continuing and that its relationship with Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft "remains strong." A Microsoft spokeswoman said that the talks between the two are continuing and nothing is final.
Microsoft Treasurer Greg Maffei is a member of Citrix's board of directors, and Microsoft owns an equity stake of about 6 percent of Citrix.
Microsoft's Allchin said, "Customers are asking for this.... It's a natural extension of the family that we already have. It should not be a surprise to anyone. It's just another part of the Windows family."
Last year Microsoft introduced Windows CE, a slimmed-down version of Windows and applications for personal digital assistants and consumer devices in the future.
Allchin said Microsoft already has a team of "reasonable" size working on developing multi-user capability, which would allow, with remote access, users on multiple devices ranging from personal digital assistants, PCs, so-called network computers, laptops and other devices, to access a server running Windows NT and applications.
Last month, Citrix reported record revenues of $15.6 million in the fourth quarter, up from $5.2 million in the year-ago quarter. The company said that its strong quarter reflected the momentum in the Windows NT marketplace.
China is expected to unveil a cautious budget this weekend, avoiding bold but risky moves in 1997, the crucial year of the recovery of Hong Kong and a major meeting of the Communist Party elite, economists said on Friday.
The 1997 budget would again show a hefty deficit although it could be smaller than the 61.442 billion yuan ($7.4 billion) estimate for 1996, they said.
"This should be a year for a steady-as-she-goes budget," said a foreign diplomat who follows economic issues.
Finance Minister Liu Zhongli is expected to announce the budget to the National People's Congress, or parliament, on Sunday or Monday.
The recovery of the British colony of Hong Kong at midnight on June 30 and the scheduling of the Communist Party congress for later in the year will most likely ensure cautious fiscal policies, economists said.
Beijing wants to see the Hong Kong handover proceed smoothly and its leaders have little inclination to take risks ahead of the congress which will set policies and decide who gets the top jobs for the next five years. Beijing's leaders also have an added reason for caution as they can no longer rely on the steadying hand of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, who died this month.
"I am not looking for anything startling in the budget," said another foreign diplomat.
Even if the deficit is not reduced this year, it will still be manageable. Last year's deficit was only 0.99 percent of estimated 1996 gross domestic product.
Economists said they expected to see higher tax revenues this year as China's economy grows at a steady pace and tax collection improves.
China has already forecast economic growth of 10.5 percent for the year, up from 9.7 percent recorded in 1996. Premier Li Peng on Saturday is to set a yet more cautious goal of 8.0 percent growth.
State revenues expanded 18.1 percent in the first 11 months of last year, and economists said more efficient tax collection and better management of state finances were key factors.
Inflation will also be relatively modest this year, limiting upward pressure on government spending. Retail price inflation is forecast at less than the 6.1 percent of 1996.
Despite lower interest rates, Beijing will need to meet increased payments of interest and principal on past debts, said economist Li Yang, of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
"This will mean more bonds will be issued this year," he said.
Economists said, however, this was not a major concern as it was largely in line with China's efforts to issue more tradeable debt to create an active secondary market and strengthen its financial sector.
But a cautious budget will mean China cannot afford to make deep cuts in subsidies to ailing state industry in 1997.
Many overstaffed state companies badly need to shed workers from their payrolls but Beijing's leaders are fearful this could lead to social unrest.
Economists will also be watching the military budget closely, where further increases in spending are expected.
Deng's chosen successor, President and Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin, needs the support of the army to retain his grip on power.
In his eulogy for Deng, Jiang referred to the army as the "pillar of the state".
China has said it wants to reduce the size of its three-million-strong army but it is likely to more than offset savings with stepped up spending on advanced weaponry, analysts said.
The proposed $6.6 billion acquisition of modem maker U.S. Robotics Corp. by computer network equipment manufacturer 3Com Corp. triggered a drop Thursday in the stocks of those and other major network companies.
Santa Clara, Calif.-based 3Com's stock fell $4 to $35 and was the most heavily traded issue on Nasdaq, with more than 40 million shares changing hands. U.S. Robotics dropped $1.875 to $59.125, also on Nasdaq, and was the second-most active share.
Analysts said the proposed stock swap unveiled Wednesday undervalued Skokie, Ill.-based U.S. Robotics, the world's leading maker of computer modems for the consumer market.
"I think U.S. Robotics shareholders are being robbed," said Donaldson Lufkin analyst Eric Buck, who harshly criticised the terms of the deal.
Several analysts said the offer -- involving stock and options valued at $7.3 billion in all -- put a low-ball value on U.S. Robotics of 20 times annual earnings vs. its historic multiple of 25.
"If anything, this deal is more of a take-under than a takeover," Salomon analyst Peter Swartz said of the 3Com deal. "Both stocks are down 50 percent from their highs." Swartz noted that many network stocks are trading at historic lows.
U.S. Robotics Chairman Casey Cowell said the sale price was "absolutely" not too low, noting that networking company valuations have been very volatile recently and that both U.S. Robotics and 3Com stock prices have fallen.
3Com especially has been under pressure after announcing its fiscal third quarter revenues would be weaker and that it cut prices on its core product, its adapter cards.
The merger, if approved by shareholders and government regulators, would create a combined company with $5 billion in annual revenues and 12,000 employees -- second only to leader Cisco Systems Inc. with more than $6 billion in annual revenues. The merger also comes as the Internet and other computer networks continue to grow in importance.
Analysts said the deal put pressure on other network equipment players to use their stock to fund major acquisitions of their own.
"We believe the competitive landscape of the networking sector is undergoing a fundamental restructuring," J.P. Morgan analyst Bill Rabin said in published comments. "Other networking vendors will have to combine or be bought."
Along with 3Com and U.S. Robotics, network company stocks were among the most actively traded on Nasdaq Thursday.
Cisco Systems fell $3.06 to $55.06, Ascend Communications Inc. dropped $5.375 to $57, and Cascade Communications Corp. slipped $2.50 to $30.125.
The main beneficiaries of the 3Com-Robotics deal appeared to be Bay Networks Inc. and Shiva Corp. -- two stocks that have sat in the doghouse for some time -- based on their potential as acquisition targets, analysts said.
Shiva rose 62.5 cents to $15.875 on Nasdaq, recovering from its historic low, while Bay added 12.5 cents to $19.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The merger forces other players in the industry to ante up to play in this bigger game," said Steve Harmon, an independent financial analyst who publishes the Internet Stock Report.
"It forces equipment makers to look for end-to-end solutions supplying network products to both businesses and consumers," he said, referring to how the 3Com-Robotics merger would allow the combined company to compete in both markets.
The pressure to do deals adds to the burdens already weighing on the computer network industry, analysts said.
Earnings shortfalls or close calls, fears of slowing industry growth and cautionary comments from 3Com, Cascade and Shiva have triggered fears about the whole sector, Rabin said.
In addition, technology changes in the industry and the growing threat of competition from outsiders like chip makers Intel Corp. and Rockwell International Corp. have dimmed the outlook for the industry as a whole.
Some analysts cited fears that Intel may decide to integrate network adapter cards or modem chips directly into the computer chassis it builds, rendering stand-alone products from many network suppliers a commodity -- if not obsolete.
JAMtv, a six-month-old online company started by a Chicago music promoter, hopes to turn the personal computer into a personalized jukebox.
As a first step, the company will unveil on Monday a music network on the Internet using multimedia technology from Intel Corp.
JAMtv plans to broadcast live concerts, link with radio stations for other programming, sell CDs and other merchandise and provide daily news and reviews.
The company is also working with privately held BackWeb, one of the leading "push" technology companies, which broadcasts personalized news and information directly to a person's PC.
"The goal is that you will have your own personal jukebox on your computer," Howard Tullman, chief executive of JAMtv, said.
JAMtv spun out from Jam Productions Ltd, a well-known concert producer and promoter in Chicago whose co-founder, Jerry Mickelsen, is chairman.
The company hopes its network will become the main source of music on the Internet, featuring contemporary and alternative rock arists and eventually country and jazz.
But JAMtv is not trying to be the MTV of the Internet, Tullman stressed.
He noted that in recent years MTV has had to change its programming to offer more shows and features, like the "Real World" soap opera, because MTV viewers tired of someone else making their programming decisions for them.
"It's a network of one," Tullman said of the planned JAMtv service.
"Anytime you go there, you can listen to what you want. You don't have to wait for someone to make these programming decisions for you," he said. "We will let you design your profile and what you want."
He said the JAMtv site on the World Wide Web will have daily events, with a calender of more than 1,500 events already planned for this year based on upcoming Jam Productions events, such as a U2 concert in Soldier Field in Chicago as part of the group's tour.
Users of the JAMtv site can also buy from a catalog of more than 140,000 music CDs, 70,000 music and entertainment videos and access an archive of images, audio, video and other data on hundreds of artists.
Tullman also said JAMtv was talking to computer makers and to Microsoft Corp. and Netscape Commuications Corp. in an effort in get a spot on the Windows desktop and a part of the Netscape browser, so that users will be able to simply click on an icon and have their JAMtv.
JAMtv is also embracing Intel's "hybrid" method of sending fat audio and video files over the Internet, by providing users with compact disks of some audio and video, which is then supplemented by updated audio and video streams sent over the Internet.
The company hopes to make money is several ways, by selling merchandise over the Internet, by selling advertising and licensing fees to radio affiliates for programming and through compiling databases on subscribers which it could sell to record companies.
Ultimately, Tullman said, a big JAMtv revenue stream will come from a "pay-per-view" distribution of live concerts on the Internet.
"At the end of the day, when you can truly go home at night and click on your PC and watch any concert you want, there will be pay per view revenues in this business," Tullman said.
JAMtv, a six-month-old online company started by a Chicago music promoter, hopes to turn the personal computer into a personalized jukebox.
As a first step, the company will unveil on Monday a music network on the Internet using multimedia technology from Intel Corp..
JAMtv plans to broadcast live concerts, link with radio stations for other programming, sell CDs and other merchandise and provide daily news and reviews.
The company is also working with privately held BackWeb, one of the leading "push" technology companies, which broadcasts personalized news and information directly to a person's PC.
"The goal is that you will have your own personal jukebox on your computer," Howard Tullman, chief executive of JAMtv, said.
JAMtv spun out from Jam Productions Ltd, a well-known concert producer and promoter in Chicago whose co-founder, Jerry Mickelsen, is chairman.
The company hopes its network will become the main source of music on the Internet, featuring contemporary and alternative rock arists and eventually country and jazz.
But JAMtv is not trying to be the MTV of the Internet, Tullman stressed.
He noted that in recent years MTV has had to change its programming to offer more shows and features, like the "Real World" soap opera, because MTV viewers tired of someone else making their programming decisions for them.
"It's a network of one," Tullman said of the planned JAMtv service.
"Anytime you go there, you can listen to what you want. You don't have to wait for someone to make these programming decisions for you," he said. "We will let you design your profile and what you want."
He said the JAMtv site on the World Wide Web will have daily events, with a calender of more than 1,500 events already planned for this year based on upcoming Jam Productions events, such as a U2 concert in Soldier Field in Chicago as part of the group's tour.
Users of the JAMtv site can also buy from a catalog of more than 140,000 music CDs, 70,000 music and entertainment videos and access an archive of images, audio, video and other data on hundreds of artists.
Tullman also said JAMtv was talking to computer makers and to Microsoft Corp. and Netscape Commuications Corp. in an effort in get a spot on the Windows desktop and a part of the Netscape browser, so that users will be able to simply click on an icon and have their JAMtv.
JAMtv is also embracing Intel's "hybrid" method of sending fat audio and video files over the Internet, by providing users with compact disks of some audio and video, which is then supplemented by updated audio and video streams sent over the Internet.
The company hopes to make money is several ways, by selling merchandise over the Internet, by selling advertising and licensing fees to radio affiliates for programming and through compiling databases on subscribers which it could sell to record companies.
Ultimately, Tullman said, a big JAMtv revenue stream will come from a "pay-per-view" distribution of live concerts on the Internet.
"At the end of the day, when you can truly go home at night and click on your PC and watch any concert you want, there will be pay per view revenues in this business," Tullman said.
China's state-run steel companies must trim their bloated payrolls but they are nimble enough to survive in the fiercely competitive marketplace, top officials said on Monday.
They also pledged that big steelmakers now preparing to float their shares -- like Anshan Steel and Chongqing Iron and Steel -- would not disappoint shareholders.
"We have confidence in the state enterprises in our industry," said Liu Qi, minister of Metallurgial Industry. "They can adapt to market conditions."
Liu and other senior ministry officials told reporters that many companies in the sector had already begun trimming staff and the trend would continue in the years ahead.
"We have made a good start to restructuring," he said, adding that reforms would continue.
Many of China's big state industries are grossly overstaffed and unable to compete with more efficient foreign competitors.
Senior ministry officials said they wanted to see only about 800,000 workers producing steel by the turn of the century. The industry employs 4.5 million people now, but that includes many workers not directly engaged in production as well as those at associated companies.
Liu said that Anshan Steel, one of three companies cleared late last year to list its shares abroad, had 190,000 employees but only 70,000 were producing steel.
The others were at affiliated companies that were operating independently, he said.
Liu cautioned, however, that many of them would not be out on the street as companies would try to find some form of work for them.
"Restructuring does not mean large numbers of people thrown out of work," he said.
Liu said that while steelmakers tried to streamline their operations they were also incorporating new technology to help cut production costs.
Other officials defended the track record of steel companies that have already offered shares, such as Hong Kong-listed Maanshan Iron and Steel, which has struggled with profits.
"Maanshan is a good company with excellent products and equipment," said vice minister Wang Wanbin.
"Maanshan has had problems but it will achieve better results in future," he said, adding that other steelmakers would also perform well in future.
Other officials said that China's had 107 large and medium-sized steel making companies and that 70 percent of them made were profitable last year.
They earned a net 5.1 billion yuan last year with gross profits of 7.4 billion yuan, partly offset by losses of 2.3 billion from those operating in the red.
They added that nearly half of the smaller companies were losing money though and that economies of scale had to be raised.
Panzhihua, a big steelmaker in Sichuan, is also planning to list shares abroad, while Benxi Steel and Hubei Daye Specialty Steel are among those planning offers for foreigners on the domestic B share market.
America Online Inc. said Tuesday it planned to place advertising on company-sponsored discussion areas, or "chat groups," as part of the world's largest online service's bid to expand its revenue base beyond mainly subscriber fees.
The Dulles, Va.-based company said placing ads in the company-sponsored chat rooms would generate 360 million ad "impressions" every month, a program one analyst estimated could generate $15 million to $25 million in new revenues in 1997. Impressions, or how many times an ad is viewed, are the advertising industry's standard way of measuring the impact of individual ad promotions.
America Online stock rose $3.75 to $43.75 a share on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trading. That rise followed a gain of $2.50 on Monday.
"AOL has the largest online chat community in the universe," Bob Pittman, the president of America Online Networks, the company's main operating unit, said in a statement.
"Over 70 percent of our members chat and we log 1 million hours of chat every day, a figure that has more than doubled over the last six months," he said.
Lehman Brothers analyst Brian Oakes estimated "chat rooms" account for about 23 percent of online usage time among America Online subscribers.
Oakes said America Online places ads on less than 4 percent of the screens its subscribers view, marking it as a significant revenue growth opportunity for the company.
If ads ran on all interactive services on America Online, including chat, electronic mail, special interest bulletin boards and its "instant messages" subscriber messaging system, America Online could book as much as $500 million in advertising revenues, he said.
America Online's chat area, known as "People Connection," creates up to 14,000 virtual chat rooms with up to 23 people in one area.
Advertisements would rotate every 60 seconds, utilizing America Online's new software ad delivery technology, the company said.
The ads will run in company-sponsored chat rooms like Town Square (current events), Life, Romance, Special Interest, Places, Arts &amp; Entertainment, and News, Sports &amp; Finance. Advertising will not be targeted at private chat rooms created by members themselves, the company said.
As an example, Oakes said sponsored chat rooms could include a Michael Jordan chat session with his fans, sponsored by Nike, or a health care discussion, sponsored by Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Daytime TV talk show host Rosie O'Donnell's recent appearance set a record on America Online with more than 16,000 simultaneous participants signing on during the program, he said.
Adding advertising to chat rooms represents America Online's latest bid to boost revenues from sources other than subscriber fees.
Last week, America Online announced a deal with Tel-Save Holdings Inc., a long distance phone service provider, in which America Online received a $100 million payment from Tel-Save to market its long-distance services to America Online members.
The online service has said it expected an increasing portion of its revenues to come from ads instead of just subcriber fees as it grows beyond its roots as an online access company to become a diversified media company.
"This is yet another asset that we have that will allow America Online to capture an ever larger percentage of online and Internet advertising spending," Pittman said of the plan to mix advertising with online chat sessions.
America Online is the world's largest Internet online service with about 8 million members.
China hit back on Tuesday at U.S. accusations of human rights abuses, saying Washington was distorting facts while turning a blind eye to problems in its own back yard.
In a lengthy riposte to U.S. State Department criticism of China in its annual report on human rights, Beijing described the United States as a land of guns, terrorist bomb attacks and racial discrimination.
China's angry attack, carried by the official Xinhua news agency and titled: "A Look at the U.S. Human Rights Record", also said American-style political democracy was a game of the rich and faulted the U.S. constitution for providing inadequate guarantees.
The U.S. report, released in January, accused Beijing of effectively silencing public dissent in 1996 through jailings, intimidation or exile.
China said the State Department was "once again distorting and attacking at length the state of human rights in China and more than 190 other countries and regions".
"The U.S. government, posing as the 'human rights judge of the world', turned a blind eye yet again to the serious human rights problems in its own country," Xinhua said.
"There are 220 million firearms in private hands, which translates into nearly one gun per person," it said. "Armed criminals are on the rampage, shootings are non-stop and a large number of innocent people have fallen prey to violence."
Xinhua cited the deadly 1993 World Trade Centre bombing in New York, the 1995 bombing in Oklahoma City and the explosion during the Olympic Games in Atlanta last year as symptoms of America's deep-rooted problems.
"It is not accidental that terrorist bomb attacks continuously occur in the United States, an excessively violent country where terrorism is deeply rooted in society."
The news agency said the United States had one of the world's largest police forces relative to its population and the largest prison population.
The report described crowded U.S. prisons as places where "prison guards mounted on horseback keep watch on inmates as though they are herding animals".
"Inmates are sometimes forced to fight among themselves and are whipped".
It condemned pervasive racial discrimination, saying blacks and other ethnic minorities had always been second-class citizens.
The agency went on to say the United States had a less than exemplary record abroad, inflicting human rights violations on other nations through wars and acts of aggression throughout its history.
"We strongly advise the U.S. government to put its own house in order before pointing its finger at other countries," it said.
America Online Inc. said Tuesday it planned to place advertising on company-sponsored discussion areas, or "chat groups," as part of the world's largest online service's bid to expand its revenue base beyond mainly subscriber fees.
The Dulles, Va.-based company said placing ads in the company-sponsored chat rooms would generate 360 million ad "impressions" every month, a programme one analyst estimated could generate $15 million to $25 million in new revenues in 1997. Impressions, or how many times an ad is viewed, are the advertising industry's standard way of measuring the impact of individual ad promotions.
America Online stock rose $3.75 to $43.75 a share on the New York Stock Exchange in afternoon trading. That rise followed a gain of $2.50 on Monday.
"AOL has the largest online chat community in the universe," Bob Pittman, the president of America Online Networks, the company's main operating unit, said in a statement.
"Over 70 percent of our members chat and we log 1 million hours of chat every day, a figure that has more than doubled over the last six months," he said.
Lehman Brothers analyst Brian Oakes estimated "chat rooms" account for about 23 percent of online usage time among America Online subscribers.
Oakes said America Online places ads on less than 4 percent of the screens its subscribers view, marking it as a significant revenue growth opportunity for the company.
If ads ran on all interactive services on America Online, including chat, electronic mail, special interest bulletin boards and its "instant messages" subscriber messaging system, America Online could book as much as $500 million in advertising revenues, he said.
America Online's chat area, known as "People Connection," creates up to 14,000 virtual chat rooms with up to 23 people in one area.
Advertisements would rotate every 60 seconds, utilizing America Online's new software ad delivery technology, the company said.
The ads will run in company-sponsored chat rooms like Town Square (current events), Life, Romance, Special Interest, Places, Arts &amp; Entertainment, and News, Sports &amp; Finance. Advertising will not be targeted at private chat rooms created by members themselves, the company said.
As an example, Oakes said sponsored chat rooms could include a Michael Jordan chat session with his fans, sponsored by Nike, or a health care discussion, sponsored by Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Daytime TV talk show host Rosie O'Donnell's recent appearance set a record on America Online with more than 16,000 simultaneous participants signing on during the programme, he said.
Adding advertising to chat rooms represents America Online's latest bid to boost revenues from sources other than subscriber fees.
Last week, America Online announced a deal with Tel-Save Holdings Inc., a long distance phone service provider, in which America Online received a $100 million payment from Tel-Save to market its long-distance services to America Online members.
The online service has said it expected an increasing portion of its revenues to come from ads instead of just subcriber fees as it grows beyond its roots as an online access company to become a diversified media company.
"This is yet another asset that we have that will allow America Online to capture an ever larger percentage of online and Internet advertising spending," Pittman said of the plan to mix advertising with online chat sessions.
America Online is the world's largest Internet online service with about 8 million members.
Shares of 3Com Corp and U.S. Robotics Corp slid on Monday as prospects dimmed for a new suitor emerging to rescue Robotics shareholders unhappy with the proposed merger of the two firms, traders said.
The agreement binding 3Com and Robotics to the $7.3-billion merger, announced last Wednesday, requires either party to pay up to $160 million if the deal falls through, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission 8-K filing over the weekend.
3Com closed on Monday at 32-13/16, down 19/64 on the day. U.S. Robotics shares, which have traded in tandem with the ups and downs of 3Com stock, closed at 55-3/8, down 7/16.
Terms of the merger call for 3Com to exchange 1.75 shares of its stock for each Robotics share. The exchange ratio is fixed with no collar, according to officials of the two companies.
The value of the 3Com offer to Robotics shareholders -- which stood at $68 when the deal was announced -- has fallen in line with the six-point decline in 3Com shares. At Monday's close, the offer was worth $57-27/64 in Robotics shares.
Analysts said shareholder disatisfaction with the proposal extends into mid-level management at Robotics. Options given employees in recent years are worthless at current price levels.  
One investment banker not involved in the deal said he made inquiries after the announcement seeking alternative bidders. "What we found is that there was not a high level of interest among competitors to enter a rival bid to 3Com," he said.
In the near-term, 3Com's rivals appear content to let the deal stand, seeing the distraction of managing the integration of 3Com, a leading corporate network supplier, with Robotics, the top consumer modem maker, as a competitive advantage.
Competitors "preferred to see 3Com and Robotics go through this period of pain instead of doing anything to break the deal up," the banker said. "They feel this deal is going to slow 3Com in the near-term."
But analysts said the deal was vulnerable because it involved a stock swap only, leaving it open to someone willing to pay cash or a stronger stock price. A shareholder vote is not expected for several months, giving rivals time to mull options.
"It's very possible that if the 3Com price continues to fall, USRX continues to fall too," Senan said. "If I were a USRX shareholder, I would be willing to consider other bids."
A U.S. Robotics spokeswoman, asked if the company had been approached by other potential bidders, said: "As a matter of policy, we don't comment on rumors or speculation."  
One possible new suitor mentioned on Monday was network industry leader Cisco Systems Inc.
Volpe, Welty and Co analyst Amar Senan said Cisco "could certainly afford to buy U.S. Robotics with minimal dilution. It's speculation, but it is also possible. It all depends on how much of a threat Cisco sees in this merger."
Cisco fell 1-3/8 to 54-1/4 on Monday, topping the Nasdaq most active list with 12.5 million shares traded. Cisco officials were not immediately available for comment.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
China's economic tsar has called for tougher controls on financial risk to protect the nation's banking system and set strict guidelines for trimming its huge pile of bad debt.
Vice Premier Zhu Rongji said state banks, struggling with loans they may never recover, needed to cut bad debt by two percent a year or their top managers could be sacked, the official People's Daily said on Thursday.
"The financial system must make a major push in 1997 to restore financial order and reduce risk," Zhu told delegates to the nation's parliament.
"We must seek to reduce the rate of bad loans by two percent annually over the next few years," he said. "We will hold accountable the leaders of those banks that cannot meet the standards."
Zhu, former head of the central bank, has been pushing to insulate banks from speculative investments in real estate as well as the nation's volatile stock and futures markets.
He has ordered banks to divorce themselves from trust company subsidiaries that can invest in more speculative markets.
He has also pushed hard for banks to extend loans based on the creditworthiness of their customers.
Many local governments pressure state banks to lend money to key enterprises that are major employers -- even when they are unlikely to repay.
Zhu reminded government officials that the commercial bank law bars local governments from interfering in bank operations.
Central bank officials have said as much as 13-14 percent of all loans extended by state-run banks were non-performing.
Some big banks might be insolvent if their bad loans were written off, financial analysts say.
In January, China announced it had shut the China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment Corp (CADTIC), major trust firm, for unspecified irregularities.
On Thursday, official newspapers reported that the state would stand behind the debts of CADTIC, repaying principal though it would not pay interest.
China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen on Friday dismissed British opposition to Beijing's plans to disband Hong Kong's legislature and said it would not affect the smooth transfer of power in the territory this year.
"The British side's opposition to this is an overreaction and unreasonable and unnecessary," Qian told reporters.
"... if they (British authorities) continue to voice their opposition to the operation of the provisional Legislative Council I don't think it will have any impact on the smooth transition of Hong Kong," he said.
Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule at midnight on June 30, becoming a Special Administrative Region of China after 150 years of British rule.
Beijing has pledged to allow Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy for 50 years after the transfer of power.
China has said it will scrap Hong Kong's existing elected Legislative Council and install an appointed provisional body in a move opposed by Britain as well as the United States.
Qian, who is also a vice-premier, conceded that foreign countries had commercial interests in Hong Kong but that did not give them the right to inferfere in the territory's affairs after the handover.
"No foreign country has the right to interfere in the affairs of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region," he said, repeating Beijing's long-standing position.
Qian also held out the prospect of legislators who lost seats in Hong Kong being able to run for posts in China's parliament, the National People's Congress.
He said, however, they would have to recognise the Chinese constitution and accept China's procedures for choosing delegates.
China's parliament has little real power and its main task is to approve laws drafted by the Communist Party.
It has nearly 3,000 delegates and Hong Kong will be entitled to only 36 of those seats next year.
International Business Machines Corp. Tuesday introduced its next generation mainframe computer family, with systems twice as fast as currently available models, in a product launch widely anticipated by its customers.
"The feedback is phenomenal," said Ross Mauri, vice president of System 390 hardware developnment, in a phone interview. "We have seen quite a bit of demand out there."
"Customers have been enthusiastic about embracing the new server," Mauri said, adding that it is likely that IBM will be "sold out of what we can produce this year," based on the initial customer reaction.
Mainframes are giant computers that store the data of the biggest corporations around the world. They are used by banks for transactions, by airlines for reservations systems, and by insurance companies for claims processing.
While many analysts have predicted the demise of these giant computers as more companies move to PC-based networks, mainframes have staged somewhat of a comeback as huge repositories of data that is accessible via the Internet and internal networks known as intranets.
The new mainframe servers use the third generation of IBM's lower-cost processor technology, called CMOS. The CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) technology is a process that uses microprocessor technology that is less costly to build and less expensive for customers to maintain.
IBM introduced two new lines of System 390 servers, or computers that manage networks.
One family, called the IBM S/390 Parallel Entreprise Server, has 13 models designed specifically for heavy data storage and for transaction intensive companies.
The second server line, the IBM S/390 Multiprise 2000, is aimed at medium-sized customers who are currently using IBM S/390 mainframes, but wish to increase their computing power. The Multiprise is also aimed at customers who wish to buy an entire package, with software and storage systems.
So far, IBM has installed about 14 of the S/390 Parallel Enterprise Servers - Generation 3 in an early customer programme. IBM has also installed three of the S/390 Multiprise.
IBM also said it introduced an upgrade of its mainframe operating system, called OS/390 Release 2, which provides more connectivity for customers to computer networks such as the Internet and UNIX based systems. IBM also introduced other software products for better network computing over the S/390.
IBM also introduced new mainframe disk storage products for improved data reliabilty.
IBM declined to give any price details on the new models, saying that it tailors each systems to unique customer needs and that customers are now familiar with the lower prices of CMOS-based mainframes.
"As you make the transition from bipolar to CMOS, you see a significant price reduction," said Mauri. "Customers already have an understanding of that."
Bipolar refers to the process technology that IBM used in its older mainframe models. Three years ago, IBM began preparing its customers for a big transition to a new, lower-cost machine, designed around microprocessors.
Analysts said the new mainframes run at speeds of around 45 million instructions per second (MIPS), twice as fast as the currently available speeds of 22 million instructions per second for the fastest CMOS models, bringing the systems up to the speeds of the older bipolar machines, and at a lower cost.
Even with the prices of these huge milllion dollar systems falling, mainframes are still IBM's biggest revenue producing hardware. Analysts are hoping for a big uptick in fourth quarter earnings, in part due to mainframes, because the lower-cost models are more profitable to IBM.
"These are all necessary announcements for IBM," said Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial Group analyst, adding that the products are important to IBM's future earnings.
IBM said the new models will be available next month.
"The mainframe as we once knew it, where MIPS were expensive, we are never going to see that again," said Sam Albert, an industry consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y. "IBM has re-engineered the mainframe, they don't even want to call it a mainframe anymore, they call it a server."
China blamed criminal elements on Sunday for a bomb that ripped through a rush-hour bus on a busy Beijing street, and offered a big reward for help in solving the case.
Exiled Uighur separatists claimed responsibility for Friday's deadly blast, and vowed to stage more attacks until they had gained "complete freedom" for China's far western region of Xinjiang.
Local Beijing newspapers said in a brief but prominent announcement that "criminal elements had used a homemade explosive device" in the attack.
The bomb went off on a Number 22 bus as it trundled through Beijing's western Xidan district during the evening rush hour. China's state-controlled media have said no one died but sources said the blast killed at least two people and injured 30.
The semi-official China News Service quoted Beijing Mayor Jia Qingling as saying another smaller bomb went off earlier last week elsewhere in the Chinese capital. No one was hurt in that incident.
The Beijing blasts followed a string of bus bombings in Urumqi, capital of the restive Moslem region of Xinjiang.
Exiled ethnic Uighurs, who want to set up an independent state of "East Turkestan" in Xinjiang, claimed responsibility for those attacks which killed nine people and injured 74.
"The bus explosion in Beijing city ...is the only way for the Xinjiang Uighur people to take revenge against communist China's oppression," Taiwan's state-run Central News Agency said in a report quoting the Turkey-based Organisation for Turkestan Freedom.
China's national media have ignored the bombings in Beijing and Xinjiang.
On Sunday, however, local Beijing newspapers published a police notice calling on the public, and passengers on the Number 22 bus in particular, to come forward with any information that could aid the investigation.
"Those who provide important information will be given a substantial reward," the notice said.
Police were unwilling to go beyond the brief official statements. "We cannot offer any details of progress in the case," said one official.
The media reports made no mention of a motive.
Three bombs blew up within minutes of each other on February 25 in Urumqi in attacks apparently timed to coincide with memorial rites in Beijing for China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping. Deng died on February 19 aged 92.
Beijing taxi drivers said their employers had warned them last week not to give rides to any suspicious-looking people from Xinjiang and to be especially cautious in areas where many Uighur migrants live.
"They said that if we give a Xinjiang person a ride we should check the cab for bombs after he gets out," said one taxi driver, who declined to be identified.
Other sources said a bomb warning had been telephoned to Beijing police before the explosion, but added that the caller had named another area in the capital.
Those behind the latest bombing may have been trying to make a more dramatic statement with their attack, sources said.
The Beijing bus targeted on Friday snakes its way through the Xidan shopping district, then passes the Zhongnanhai compound of China's ruling elite and the vast Tiananmen Square, both of them symbols of communist rule.
Former NBC executive Brandon Tartikoff Monday was named chairman of the board of America Online Inc.'s original content developer, Greenhouse Networks, as part of a major initiative to create specialized online networks. The company's stock soared.
The world's No. 1 online service also said it was buying LightSpeed Media Inc., a pioneer producer of Internet soap operas and shows. Financial terms were not disclosed.
As part of the deal, Vienna, Va.-based Greenhouse Networks said it would develop an interactive entertainment network, slated for launch this fall on AOL and the Internet.
America Online stock rose $5, or more than 11 percent, to $47 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was seventh leading percentage gainer for the day.
AOL's entertainment network will be based in Los Angeles and will capitalize on Lightspeed's and Tartikoff's relationships in the entertainment industry.
America Online's deal with Tartikoff expands a previous arrangement announced last fall for the executive to develop original interactive brands to be launched simultaneously online, on television and as books.
Tartikoff, who was president of NBC Entertainment from 1980 to 1991, currently heads his own television and production company, H. Beale Co., in Los Angeles. During his tenure at NBC, the network made its rise to the No. 1 network with shows such as "Hill Street Blues," "Cheers," "L.A. Law," and "Family Ties."
From 1991 to 1992, he was chairman of Paramount Pictures when that studio released hit movies such as "Wayne's World" and "Patriot Games."
Analysts called the expansion of Tartikoff's role a "major coup" for the online service, as it hopes to move toward developing its own content instead of just investing in companies that develop content for AOL.
The Greenhouse Network's Motley Fool personal finance area is one of the most successful of the over 30 Greenhouse investments. The founders of Motley Fool have authored books, articles and the Motley Fool is now a logo found on baseball hats, T-shirts and other merchandise.
Tartikoff "developed NBC into the powerhouse of the 1980s," said Peter Krasilovsky, an analyst with Arlen Communications Inc. in Bethesda, Md. "He has these concepts and he gets them down. ... They are hoping to get a major hit that is so big they will be able to merchandise it."
Tartikoff's first project with Greenhouse and AOL will be called "Beggars and Choosers," a serial about a struggling TV network, which is being developed to launch simultaneously on AOL and as a made-for-TV movie for the Showtime cable channel.
Tartikoff will continue to head his own production company and act as a consultant and adviser to America Online as chairman of Greenhouse, America Online said.
LightSpeed's founders were behind the first so-called "episodic" show on the Internet, called "The Spot," which it sold to American Cybercast in early 1996. "The Spot," an interactive soap opera about five people sharing a beach house in California, is still on the Web site of American Cybercast, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January.
LightSpeed was founded in May 1996 by the creators of "The Spot," after American Cybercast bought the program. Founder Scott Zakarin will be named president of programming.
Zakarin and his team launched another popular Internet soap -- "GrapeJam" -- last August.
America Online executives said Internet soap operas will be only one small part of its broad entertainment network, which will feature celebrity hosts, live events, news and other information about the entertainment industry.
"The focus (of the network) is on the entertainment industry and the entertainment business," said Greenhouse President Danny Krifcher. He declined to say how many staffers it will have, or what its projected revenues will be.
America Online plans to make money from the entertainment network through advertising revenues, licensing and through transactions, such as selling tickets to entertainment events, selling merchandise and offering premium information at a surcharge. But Krifcher declined to make any forecasts.
The closest competition America Online said it has on the Internet to its entertainment network are sites such as Mr. Showbiz, E! Online and a People magazine site devoted to entertainment. Analysts said AOL's biggest competition is Microsoft Corp.'s MP3 multimedia studio.
"This is a very big opportunity," Krifcher said. "This is the beginning of what we think will be a series of exciting announcements and developments for us."
Greenhouse also plans to launch other programming networks specializing in sports, romance, young adults, health and women. The networks will include content of current Greenhouse properties and new ones, to be distributed over AOL, the Internet and other platforms such as TV and books.
"Greenhouse is no longer just a venture capital company," Krasilovsky said. "They are hoping to develop full media properties in their own right."
International Business Machines Corp. Tuesday introduced its next generation mainframe computer family, with systems twice as fast as currently available models, in a product launch widely anticipated by its customers.
"The feedback is phenomenal," said Ross Mauri, vice president of System 390 hardware developnment, in a phone interview. "We have seen quite a bit of demand out there."
"Customers have been enthusiastic about embracing the new server," Mauri said, adding that it is likely that IBM will be "sold out of what we can produce this year," based on the initial customer reaction.
Mainframes are giant computers that store the data of the biggest corporations around the world. They are used by banks for transactions, by airlines for reservations systems, and by insurance companies for claims processing.
While many analysts have predicted the demise of these giant computers as more companies move to PC-based networks, mainframes have staged somewhat of a comeback as huge repositories of data that is accessible via the Internet and internal networks known as intranets.
The new mainframe servers use the third generation of IBM's lower-cost processor technology, called CMOS. The CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) technology is a process that uses microprocessor technology that is less costly to build and less expensive for customers to maintain.
IBM introduced two new lines of System 390 servers, or computers that manage networks.
One family, called the IBM S/390 Parallel Entreprise Server, has 13 models designed specifically for heavy data storage and for transaction intensive companies.
The second server line, the IBM S/390 Multiprise 2000, is aimed at medium-sized customers who are currently using IBM S/390 mainframes, but wish to increase their computing power. The Multiprise is also aimed at customers who wish to buy an entire package, with software and storage systems.
So far, IBM has installed about 14 of the S/390 Parallel Enterprise Servers - Generation 3 in an early customer program. IBM has also installed three of the S/390 Multiprise.
IBM also said it introduced an upgrade of its mainframe operating system, called OS/390 Release 2, which provides more connectivity for customers to computer networks such as the Internet and UNIX based systems. IBM also introduced other software products for better network computing over the S/390.
IBM also introduced new mainframe disk storage products for improved data reliabilty.
IBM declined to give any price details on the new models, saying that it tailors each systems to unique customer needs and that customers are now familiar with the lower prices of CMOS-based mainframes.
"As you make the transition from bipolar to CMOS, you see a significant price reduction," said Mauri. "Customers already have an understanding of that."
Bipolar refers to the process technology that IBM used in its older mainframe models. Three years ago, IBM began preparing its customers for a big transition to a new, lower-cost machine, designed around microprocessors.
Analysts said the new mainframes run at speeds of around 45 million instructions per second (MIPS), twice as fast as the currently available speeds of 22 million instructions per second for the fastest CMOS models, bringing the systems up to the speeds of the older bipolar machines, and at a lower cost.
Even with the prices of these huge milllion dollar systems falling, mainframes are still IBM's biggest revenue producing hardware. Analysts are hoping for a big uptick in fourth quarter earnings, in part due to mainframes, because the lower-cost models are more profitable to IBM.
"These are all necessary announcements for IBM," said Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial Group analyst, adding that the products are important to IBM's future earnings.
IBM said the new models will be available next month.
"The mainframe as we once knew it, where MIPS were expensive, we are never going to see that again," said Sam Albert, an industry consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y. "IBM has re-engineered the mainframe, they don't even want to call it a mainframe anymore, they call it a server."
An unemployed Taiwanese journalist on Monday doused himself with petrol aboard a Taiwan airliner and hijacked the plane to China where he requested political asylum, officials said.
The Boeing 757 airliner, carrying 150 passengers and six crew, was on its way back to Taiwan after landing safely in the southeastern city of Xiamen.
Chinese police said the suspect, identified by Taiwan as Liu Shan-chung, 45, was being held in Xiamen for questioning.
"The hijacker wants political asylum," an airport official said by telephone.
An executive of Far East Air Transport, the operator of the hijacked Taiwanese airliner, told reporters the man who forced Flight 128 to fly to China said he faced political repression in Taiwan.
"The hijacker told the captain 'I am a victim of political repression'," said Lee Yun-ning, general manager of Far East Air Transport, speaking in Taipei.
Taiwan demanded China return the suspect, saying it had the right to put him on trial.
"We have legal jurisdiction," Taiwan Justice Minister Liao Cheng-hao said hours after the plane crossed the Taiwan Strait and touched down in Xiamen. "The mainland authorities should return the hijacker immediately."
Chinese officials did not say how they would deal with the suspect.
Hijacking is a capital offence but commandeering an aircraft from China's arch rival Taiwan would be determined by political considerations as well as legal guidelines, lawyers said.
China and Taiwan have been rivals since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949 when the Nationalists fled to the island after their defeat on the mainland by the communists.
The Taiwan airliner was on a scheduled flight from the island's southern city of Kaohsiung to Taipei when it changed course and headed for the China mainland.
Liu had doused himself with petrol and forced the pilot to change course, Taiwanese authorities said.
Liu worked briefly as a journalist for the east Taiwan newspaper Lientung Daily after being fired a year ago from Kaohsiung's The Commons Daily for discipline problems, his former employers said.
In Taiwan, Defence Minister Chiang Chung-ling said four Taiwan fighters had scrambled into an escort formation and tailed the plane part of the way across the Taiwan Strait.
Taiwan defence officials decided not to intercept the flight to avoid a military "misunderstanding" with China's People's Liberation Army, a defence official told Reuters.
The last hijacking of a Taiwanese airliner to China was in May 1986, when the pilot of a Boeing 747 cargo plane owned by Taiwan's flag carrier China Airlines commandeered the jet and flew it to Guangzhou.
Beijing returned the plane and two crew members who did not want to stay in China after talks between the two rivals in Hong Kong.
China endured a rash of 12 hijackings in 1993 and 1994 by Chinese who ordered pilots to fly them to Taiwan for political asylum.
Air piracy fell off sharply after Beijing launched a major drive to improve what had been lax security at most airports.
Former NBC executive Brandon Tartikoff was named chairman of the board of America Online Inc.'s original content division, Greenhouse Networks, the online giant announced Monday.
The world's No. 1 online service also said it was buying LightSpeed Media, a pioneer producer of Internet soap operas and shows. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
As part of the deal, Vienna, Va.-based Greenhouse Networks said it would develop an interactive entertainment network, slated for launch this fall.
The entertainment network will be based in Los Angeles and will capitalise on Lightspeed's and Tartikoff's relationships in the entertainment industry.
America Online's deal with Tartikoff expands a previous arrangement announced last fall for the executive to develop original interactive brands to be launched simultaneously online, on television and as books.
Tartikoff, who was president of NBC Entertainment from 1980 to 1991, currently heads his own television and production company, H. Beale Co., in Los Angeles.
Tartikoff will continue to head his own production company and act as a consultant and adviser to America Online as chairman of Greenhouse, America Online said.
LightSpeed was behind the first so-called "episodic" show on the Internet, called "The Spot," which it sold to American Cybercast early last year. "The Spot," an interactive soap opera about five people sharing a house on a California beach, is still on the Web site of American Cybercast, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January.
LightSpeed was founded in May 1996 by the creators of "The Spot" after American Cybercast bought the programme. Founder Scott Zakarin will be named president of programming.
Zakarin and his team launched another Internet soap -- -- "GrapeJam" -- last August.
America Online executives said Internet soap operas will be only one small part of its broad entertainment network, which will feature celebrity hosts, live events, news and other information about the entertainment industry.
"The focus (of the network) is on the entertainment industry and the entertainment business," said Greenhouse President Danny Krifcher. He declined to say how big the venture will be.
America Online plans to make money from the entertainment network through advertising revenues, licensing and through transactions, such as selling tickets to entertainment events, selling merchandise and offering premium information at a surcharge. But Krifcher declined to make any forecasts.
The closest competition America Online said it has on the Internet to the entertainment network are sites such as Mr. Showbiz, E! Online and a People magazine site devoted to entertainment.
"This is a very big opportunity," Krifcher said. "This is the beginning of what we think will be a series of exciting announcements and developments for us."
America Online stock rose $3 to $45 in consolidated afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Sony Corp. will unveil Monday an Internet-based staging area for consumers to sample, play and even purchase the entertainment giant's vast store of popular television, film, music and video games.
"The Station at Sony.com," as Sony's site is to be known, represents a major push by the consumer electronics and entertainment giant to make its presence felt on the Web.
The Station moves Sony beyond the typical company-promotion site to offer many features of a full-scale online network comparable to that of America Online Inc.
Sony officials said they believed the Station could make Sony the top entertainment brand on the Web -- "the place people turn to play," to quote a Sony official -- just as Disney has come to symbolise children's programming and ESPN means sports.
"For the first time, Sony has brought together the best of all it has to offer, " Mitchell Cannold, president of Sony Online, the U.S.-based Internet marketing unit of Sony, said of the centralized entertainment site.
"Our goal is to make The Station the primary online entertainment destination for fun and games -- a place that Web users of every age will be able to be entertained in, have fun and make their own," Cannold said.
The Sony Station harnesses the latest Web technology to allow users to sample and buy music and film clips, or communicate with other Station visitors in an array of topical discussion areas, called "chat rooms," on the site.
One feature is a special "back-stage pass" that appears on computer screens of those who sign up to join the Sony site.
Called the "StationPass," this token functions as a kind of electronic mail connection that travels with users to outside Web sites, keeping them in touch with other StationPass holders.
The StationPass uses new Java programming technology that will allow the computer user to remain in touch with other StationPass holders by pager or other digital communications device.
Sony said it has laid down strict formating guidelines for graphics, text and other content on the Station, so computer users with PCs purchased in recent years using a standard modem should suffer few delays when visiting the site.
Games and contests of all sorts are available, from Sony Wonder interactive entertainment for children, to online versions of the TV game shows Jeopardy and Wheel of Fortune, to Battleground, a new type of multiplayer game where a thousand combatants can navigate tanks through a futuristic warzone.
Station visitors can shop for Sony merchandise and collectible items, along with Columbia TriStar home videos and Sony Wonder kids products like CDs, boosk and tape packages.
Gary Arlen, president of Arlen Communications and a veteran industry analyst, predicted that popular entertainment fans will find the Sony Station engrossing.
If people go to the Web to be entertained -- to play a game like Jeopardy, to see a soap opera like "Days of Our Lives," or to sample the new single by Mariah Carey, they will go to Sony Station and they will go there regularly," he said.
Promising to provide a boost to the site is an exclusive joint marketing partnership Sony has agreed to with Visa U.S.A., the credit card consortium.
In return for making Visa the preferred method of payment for goods purchased at the site, Visa has agreed to feature the Sony brand name in a major TV and publishing campaign Visa plans to launch later this year to promote Internet commerce.
A Visa marketing executive confirmed outlines of the deal.
The agreement makes Sony the exclusive "entertainment" brand to be featured in the ads, although other brands may also appear, Sony officials said.
They said Visa's outside marketing commitment represents "many millions of dollars" in free advertising for the site.
More immediately, Sony said it planned a broad promotional campaign in publications such as Wired magazine and other advertising venues to promote the lauch of the Station.
Sony also boasts of having the largest amount of brand name advertising ever assembled for a new site, with marquis names like Sears, Roebuck and Co., General Motors Corp., American Airlines, Kellogg Co., Colgate Palmolive and Microsoft Corp.
Sony said it expected the six companies to contribute roughly $1 million for it to display ads during 1997, a figure that excludes any unpaid reciprocal promotions.
Ads targeted to fit computer users' personal interests pop-up as they click to navigate through the Web pages of the Station. The target audience is young people, the same 18-to-34-year-old demographic group that is already active on the Web.
While a complete range of Sony brand products will be available, the Station also has been opened up to allow selected corporate partners also to showcase their products. Half the products on the site are from Sony, officials said.
Some of Microsoft Corp.'s biggest corporate foes  -- including International Business Machines Corp. and Netscape Communications Corp. -- said Tuesday they were collaborating on network computing standards that will enable their products to work together seamlessly.
The companies, which also include Oracle Corp. and Sun Microsystems Inc., said the standards resulting from the collaboration would allow software developers to build diverse software to connect computers via corporate networks, business-to-business networks and the Internet.
They said their collaboration was open to broad industry participation.
"This initiative starts with four companies, but our goal is for an industry groundswell to develop," said Steve Mills, general manager of IBM Software Solutions.
Microsoft, the world's No. 1 software company, has been criticised by others in the industry and computer users for trying to extend its domination in various areas by developing software based on closed, proprietary standards.
This is a particularly sensitive issue for the Internet, which for many years has operated according to so-called open standards.
IBM, Oracle, Sun and Netscape said the results of their collaboration would be submitted to an industry standards group later this year. Microsoft is part of the industry standards group as well.
Each company pledged to make their next major products adhere to the standards this year.
The goal of the collaboration is to have a unified approach to an Internet development architecture -- called CORBA, or common object request broker architecture -- so that software from these companies can use objects developed by others.
For example, Netscape's Communicator software will be able to access objects, or pieces of reusable code, stored in a big IBM or Oracle database.
Microsoft's stock dropped $1.625 to $98.375 on Nasdaq, while IBM dipped 12.5 cents to $146 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Oracle was down 25 cents at $35.75, Sun Microsystems rose 50 cents to $31.75 and Netscape dropped $1.875 to $27.75, all on Nasdaq.
China moved ahead on Wednesday with plans to host U.S. Vice President Al Gore, the most senior American visitor in eight years, ignoring a flap over alleged Beijing funding for the United States Democratic Party.
A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman denied the funding allegations and said they would not affect this month's visit which both sides have portrayed as part of efforts to mend damaged ties.
"The Chinese and American sides are actively preparing for the visit," a ministry spokesman told Reuters on Wednesday.
The allegations of Chinese assistance to the Democrats were made by "people with ulterior motives", the spokesman said.
The Washington Post reported on Sunday that the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation had warned six members of Congress last year that they had been targeted by China to receive illegal campaign contributions from foreign corporations.
U.S. investigators had found what officials called conclusive evidence that Chinese government funds were funnelled into the United States in 1996, the newspaper said.
China and the United States have been hoping to use Gore's visit, scheduled for March 24-28, to help restore ties strained in recent years by a host of issues ranging from Taiwan and trade to arms and human rights.
Gore would become the most senior U.S. official to visit China since then-President George Bush toured Beijing in early 1989. That trip was marred by a flap over a U.S. decision to invite a prominent dissident to a banquet in honour of China's leaders.
Chinese and American officials have given few details of Gore's trip, though an advance team is expected in Beijing this week to make final preparations.
The vice president's visit is expected to pave the way for an exchange of summits between Chinese President Jiang Zemin and U.S. President Bill Clinton.
Beijing has been angered by the allegations that it made illegal contributions to the Democrats, saying it had neither the interest nor the financial ability to make such payments.
"We do not have the money to support U.S. political parties," a ministry spokesman told reporters on Tuesday.
A U.S. congressional committee investigating campaign funding abuses has issued subpoenas to the White House and Justice Department for information on any alleged Chinese government involvement in funnelling money for the 1996 U.S. presidential election.
A senior Chinese foreign ministry official had made serious representations to the U.S. charge d'affairs in Beijing over the accusations of illegal donations, the official Xinhua news agency said on Monday.
Clinton's Democratic Party has already returned $3 million in questionable cash to various donors, most of them with Asian ties.
Gore himself has been tarred with allegations by Republicans that he may have violated the law by pressing for contributions to the Democratic Party during the 1996 election campaign. He has insisted he broke no laws.
Clinton has used the issue to renew an appeal for reform in U.S. campaign financing laws.
The U.S. Senate voted on Tuesday to expand its investigation of campaign fundraising abuses from just illegal actions to illegal and improper activities.
While diplomats say Beijing and Washington are determined to prevent their many differences from outweighing areas of common interest, frosty exchanges have remained a frequent feature of the Sino-U.S. diplomatic dialogue.
In its annual report on human rights, the U.S. State Department accused Beijing of effectively silencing public dissent in 1996 through jailings, intimidation or exile.
On Wednesday, China's official Legal Daily repeated Beijing's response to the U.S. report, saying it had interfered in the internal affairs of other countries and had aroused objections around the world.
Some of Microsoft Corp.'s biggest corporate foes -- including International Business Machines Corp. and Netscape Communications Corp -- said they were collaborating on network computing standards that will enable their products to work together seamlessly.
The companies, which also include Oracle Corp and Sun Microsystems Inc, said on Tuesday the standards resulting from the collaboration would allow software developers to build diverse software to connect computers via corporate networks, business-to-business networks and the Internet.
They said their collaboration was open to broad industry participation.
"This initiative starts with four companies, but our goal is for an industry groundswell to develop," said Steve Mills, general manager of IBM Software Solutions.
Microsoft, the world's No. 1 software company, has been criticised by others in the industry and computer users for trying to extend its domination in various areas by developing software based on closed, proprietary standards.
This is a particularly sensitive issue for the Internet, which for many years has operated according to so-called open standards.
IBM, Oracle, Sun and Netscape said the results of their collaboration would be submitted to an industry standards group later this year. Microsoft is part of the industry standards group as well.
Each company pledged to make their next major products adhere to the standards this year.
The goal of the collaboration is to have a unified approach to an Internet development architecture -- called CORBA, or common object request broker architecture -- so that software from these companies can use objects developed by others.
For example, Netscape's Communicator software will be able to access objects, or pieces of reusable code, stored in a big IBM or Oracle database.
Premier Li Peng said on Friday China wanted a swift end to a crisis surrounding a senior North Korean defector sheltering in South Korea's mission in Beijing.
Li gave little hint as to how the month-long standoff would end, although he said stability on the tense Korean peninsula was a key consideration.
"I can tell you conditions are nearly ripe for solving this problem," Li told reporters when asked about progress in negotiations on the fate of Hwang Jang-yop, who has sought refuge in Seoul's Beijing consulate.
China wanted to "appropriately solve this problem at an early date", he told a news conference at Beijing's cavernous Great Hall of the People.
"On this question, China will exercise caution and we will handle the issue by proceeding from the maintenance of peace on the Korean peninsula," Li said.
"Of course, we will consider the positions of all sides," he said.
Hwang, a senior ideological theoretician and top aide to supreme leader Kim Jong-il, has been stranded in the consular compound since February 12 while China and North and South Korea negotiate his fate.
He is the most senior official to defect from the isolated Stalinist state.
He has said he wants to be allowed to go to South Korea and foreign diplomats have said that he would likely be allowed to leave for a third country first and then travel to Seoul.
The defection on Chinese territory has deeply embarrassed Beijing, forcing it to chose between its old communist ally of North Korea and its new capitalist friend in the South.
China and North Korea fought side by side in the 1950-53 Korean War but Beijing has drawn closer to South Korea as it pushes ahead with rapid development under market-style economic reforms.
Li repeated Beijing's position that it had jurisdiction since Hwang asked for asylum while he was in Beijing.
He said China would follow international practice in solving the dispute but he made the somewhat surprising remark that there was no automatic right to asylum as far as Beijing was concerned.
"China does not recognise the right of diplomatic asylum by foreign embassies or consulates in its territory," he said.
Beijing has, however, allowed asylum seekers to leave foreign embassies on its soil in the past.
Dissident Fang Lizhi sought shelter in the U.S. embassy in Beijing shortly after the army crackdown on dissent in June 1989. He was eventually allowed to leave for the United States.
The Communist Party boss of China's restive Xinjiang region said on Friday a tiny handful of separatists was behind a series of recent bombings but most had been caught and the region was stable.
He also denied that hundreds of people had been killed in unrest in Xinjiang.
"Only an extremely small number of people were involved in these acts of terrorism," said Xinjiang party chief Wang Lequan in response to a reporter's question on the unrest.
"Most of the criminals have already been caught."
Wang, flanked by the entire leadership of the largely Moslem region, did not give any figures for the number of arrests or deaths.
Wang was speaking at a briefing for reporters and government officials on a trade fair planned for the far northwestern region later this year.
"This does not mean Xinjiang is not stable," he said. "Investors should not be unduly concerned."
Three bombs went off on public buses in the region's capital Urumqi last month in an attack apparently timed to coincide with funeral rites in Beijing for China's late paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
Nine people were killed and 74 wounded.
Exiled ethnic Uighurs, who want to set up an independent state of "East Turkestan" in Xinjiang, have claimed responsibility for the bombings and vowed to stage more attacks until they had gained complete freedom for their homeland.
The Turkic-speaking Uighurs are Xinjiang's largest Moslem group. Relations with Han Chinese settlers have been uneasy and marked by sporadic outbreaks of violence. China is predominantly Han.
The bus bombings in Urumqi followed an anti-Chinese riot in early February in the city of Yining, about 50 km (30 miles) east of Xinjiang's border with Kazakhstan. Chinese officials said nine people were killed and 198 injured in that incident.
Wang described the Yining unrest as an act of subversion that also stemmed from a small group of people.
"This was quelled very quickly," he said.
Asked to comment on a report that hundreds of people, both Uighur and Han Chinese, had died in the aftermath of that incident, he said: "There is no truth to this."
Other officials said the incidents had not disrupted trade with neighbouring Central Asian states or other areas.
"The roads to Kazakhstan and other areas are open," said Li Donghui, Xinjiang's vice governor.
"Our trade overall was up 80 percent in the first two months of the year. Border trade rose 50 percent."
Officials also said the incidents had not affected stability in other parts of the country.
Two bombs went off in Beijing last week. One of the attacks killed two people and wounded about 30, sources have said.
Police and other officials have said there was no evidence linking those bombings with unrest in Xinjiang.
But taxi drivers in the Chinese capital have said they were asked not to give rides to suspicious looking people from Xinjiang and to be especially cautious in neighbourhoods where many Uighur migrants live.
U.S. computer software giant Microsoft Corp joined China's top personal computer maker on Tuesday in a licensing pact hailed by Beijing as proof it was serious about protecting intellectual property rights.
Under the agreement, China's Legend Group will be allowed to pre-install the Chinese-language version of Microsoft's Windows 95 software in its personal computers.
"This shows the Chinese government's resolve to protect intellectual property rights," said Yu Zhongyu, chief engineer at the Ministry of Electronics Industry, speaking at the signing ceremony in Beijing.
Other officials at the ceremony described the accord as one of the biggest signed since the United States and China reached an agreement last June on the protection of intellectual property rights, averting a trade war.
Beijing agreed to protect intellectual property rights by moving to stamp out piracy that American firms had alleged was costing them $2.3 billion a year in lost sales.
Computer software piracy figured prominently in last year's often heated Sino-U.S. discussions.
The licensing pact could mean payments of about 100 million yuan ($12 million) by Legend to Microsoft over the next two years, if the Chinese company meets its sales targets, officials of the two companies said.
Legend said it sold 200,000 personal computers last year and it is aiming to double that figure this year.
Chinese government officials have said that about 1.8 million personal computers were sold overall in China last year.
"This is the most significant agreement Microsoft has signed in the People's Republic of China," said Charles Stevens, Microsoft vice president, Far East.
The two companies described their agreement as part of a strategic partnership that pointed to further cooperation in future.
The Windows 95 software to be installed in the Legend computers employs the simplified Chinese characters used in mainland China.
Legend Group controls the Hong Kong-listed Legend. Legend officials said the income from the personal computers sold under the agreement with Microsoft would be largely reflected in the results of the Beijing operations.
International Business Machines Corp.'s $23 billion Global Services business will become a separate IBM group, the company announced Wednesday, acknowledging the significance of the fast-growing business.
In a related development, IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner reiterated in the company's annual report an earlier statement that it planned to hire "thousands more" employees to fuel growth, most of them in Global Services.
IBM told analysts earlier this year it will probably add as many new employees in 1997 as it did in 1996, with a big chunk in Global Services.
In 1996, the Armonk, N.Y.-based computer giant's worldwide head count grew to 241,000, up from 225,000 in 1995, mostly due to the expanding services business, an IBM spokesman said. In 1995, employment grew from 220,000 in 1994, the first time employment grew in 10 years.
"I'd like to add here that I am very happy -- and proud -- that our transformation has created job growth," Gerstner said in his letter to shareholders, in which he described 1996 overall as "a solid year."
When Gerstner first took over the then-struggling computer giant in April 1993, one of his first actions was to take a whopping restructuring charge and cut 25,000 jobs from IBM.
The Global Services unit -- which designs, installs and services computers, including running entire corporate computer systems -- was formerly part of IBM's Sales and Services group.
Sales and Services will be renamed the Sales and Distribution Group, still headed by IBM Senior Vice President Ned Lautenbach.
IBM also said Dennie Welsh, who was general manager of Global Services, will be promoted to a senior vice president and report directly to Gerstner.
Welsh was also named an IBM group executive and will join IBM's executive committee, which makes strategic decisions.
"The time is right for this change," Gerstner said in an IBM memo announcing the reorganization. "He (Welsh) and his colleagues on the services team have done an outstanding job building a great new business for IBM. This change not only reflects a logical adjustment in our organisational structure, but also a recognition of their success."
IBM's services business has been its fastest growing in recent quarters. In the fourth quarter, IBM said services revenues jumped 22 percent to $5 billion. In comparison, IBM's total revenues grew 6 percent in the fourth quarter.
"This is a transformation of the IBM company," said Sam Albert, a Scarsdale, N.Y.-based consultant. "The major revenue stream is not coming from hardware, it will come from software and services ...".
"This has some impact on the way IBM sees its future," Albert added. "Anything this important demands direct oversight by Gerstner."
Wednesday's move follows changes in December when IBM consolidated computer services under the IBM Global Services brand. IBM's services organisation had been operating in some countries outside the United States under different names.
The addition of Global Services now gives IBM five major corporate divisions. The others are the Software Group, the Server Group, which makes the computers that run networks; the Personal Systems Group; and Sales and Distribution.
With Welsh's promotion to IBM senior vice president, the company now has a total of 10 senior vice presidents.
IBM stock fell $1.50 to $137.857 on the New York Stock Exchange.
China's offer to return a hijacker to Taiwan has raised hopes of an easing of tension between the two rivals but it is likely to be only a small step in closing their wide gulf, analysts said on Thursday.
They said Beijing has allowed itself flexibility by not saying when it would return the unemployed journalist who is alleged to have commandeered a Taiwan airliner 10 days ago.
Taiwan, which holds the trump cards in this round of their diplomatic game, may also be trying to use the issue to force a resumption of formal talks with China, broken off in mid-1995.
"It's an interesting and encouraging development in that they are still talking to each other on practical matters," said a Western diplomat with long years of China experience.
"But it's no major concession," he said. "There's likely to be more people hijacking in the opposite direction."
China on Thursday gave in to Taiwan's demands to repatriate Liu Shan-chung, but demanded the island send back 16 Chinese hijackers in return.
It did not give a date for the return of Liu, who is suspected of forcing a Taiwanese airliner to fly to China's southeastern city of Xiamen. The plane, crew and all other passengers were returned the same day but China has held the hijacker in custody.
"Liu Shan-chung... will be repatriated to Taiwan after necessary investigations are made," the official Xinhua news agency said, quoting China's Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits.
The semi-official association handles bilateral ties in the absence of formal links between Beijing and Taipei, rivals since the communists won the Chinese civil war and drove the defeated Nationalists into exile on Taiwan in 1949.
The association said China was repatriating the hijacker in line with an agreement reached in 1990, but which was never signed.
Taiwan has jailed 16 Chinese for hijacking 12 airliners to the island between April 1993 and June 1994. It has offered to return two of them.
"Beijing is more eager to see an end to hijackings," said another diplomat in Beijing. "That gives Taiwan leverage on this issue."
Taiwan welcomed Beijing's announcement but declined to signal any further response.
"This will be positive for our future talks on hijacker repatriation," said Jonathan Liu, a director of Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council.
But he said Taiwan would wait for formal notification before it decided on its next move.
Taiwan has banned direct air and shipping with China for almost five decades, and insists such links must go through a third territory, mainly Hong Kong.
China has been pushing for direct trade and transport links though Taiwan has been using these as key bargaining chips on any talks on the future relations of the two rivals.
Taipei wants to see a resumption of semi-official talks, broken off by China after Taiwanese President Lee Teng-hui made a private visit to the United States in 1995. The visit angered China, which views the island as a renegade province that is not entitled to official contacts with other states.
Foreign analysts in Beijing said that the timing of the announcement on Liu's return to Taiwan had some additional political mileage for Beijing.
It was made shortly before the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled spiritual leader, starts a visit to the island.
China has warned Taiwan against using the visit to further its political ends.
New York state utility regulators Thursday approved the $23 billion Nynex Corp. and Bell Atlantic Corp. merger, subject to conditions the regional telephone giants must agree to by the end of March.
Consumer groups opposed to the merger that have demanded rate rebates for New York customers blasted the state Public Service Commission's decision as a sellout.
New York became the last state in Nynex's six-state service region to approve the merger, which still faces hurdles in Washington and New York.
The merger of the Baby Bells would create the nation's largest local phone company serving customers in 12 Northeastern states and Washington.
"The bedrock requirements of our approval are improved service quality and ensuring that ratepayers see tangible benefits," New York State Public Service Commission Chairman John O'Mara said.
He said in an interview that, while there would be no immediate rate reduction, "We have attached conditions that we believe will bring rate reduction."
The merger is being held up by federal regulators who are reviewing its competitive implications.
Bell Atlantic spokesman Eric Rabe said the companies now expected the deal to close after April 22, the previous target date. "Obviously, things are moving slower than we had hoped," Rabe said.
He said the Justice Department had still not indicated when it would act on the deal. He said the Federal Communications Commission said it would take 30 days after the Justice Department finishes its review before it took action.
The companies welcomed the commission's decision but said in a joint statement they were still assessing the conditions.
In addition, state Attorney General Dennis Vacco expressed concern the decision did not go far enough to protect ratepayers and said he was reviewing the deal.
After several months of hearings, the three-member panel voted for the merger and the conditions in a 15-minute meeting in Albany, the state capital.
The commission said the combined company must not move major operations that were located in New York state before the merger and that its headquarters be in New York, which New York-based Nynex and Philadelphia-based Bell Atlantic have agreed to.
The regulators focused on improving customer service in New York, where consumer groups have berated Nynex for offering what they call the worst service in the nation.
The approval calls on Nynex to accelerate spending to improve customer service, including hiring up to 1,000 new support staff by the end of 1997 in New York state.
A Nynex spokesman said the company has been hiring service personnel over the past year and would hire more in 1997. Last year, it hired 3,600 employees in service-related areas, three-fourths of them in New York state. Overall, Nynex has just over 68,000 employees.
Consumer groups were swift to criticise the commission's decision.
"We are outraged that this commission approved a merger that is completely anticompetitive," said Robert Ceisler of the New York Citizens Utility Board ratepayers' group. "The commission has sanctioned a more powerful and richer monopoly."
Consumer advocates had demanded the commission at least force Nynex to give consumers immediate rebates to compensate for the reduced competition and greater efficiencies expected from the merger.
Other conditions cited were having Bell Atlantic pledge to observe existing agreements between regulators and Nynex, that Nynex employee pension funds be protected, and that Bell Atlantic grant regulators access to its records.
Nynex stock closed down 37.5 cents at $47 while Bell Atlantic fell 75 cents to $63.625, both in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
New York State utility regulators are set to approve the Bell Atlantic Corp/NYNEX Corp merger, subject to several conditions, to be set forth prior to a final vote set for Thursday.
Regulators will consider demanding the combined company permanently locate its headquarters in New York, reduce rates, issue $300 million in rebates and improve customer service.
These conditions were among those considered at a hearing Wednesday of the N.Y. Public Service Commission in Albany, the state capitol, which will be taken up at tommorrow's meeting.
The merger would create the nation's largest local phone operator and still faces hurdles in Washington, as well as New York, the only state now withholding its approval.
In Washington, the combination reportedly has met with increased scrutiny in recent weeks from anti-trust officials at the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Federal officials have issued new subpeonas requesting details on rivals' plans to offer local phone service in New York.
The deal still faces an ongoing anti-trust review by New York State Attorney General Dennis Vacco, who argues the merger strengthens NYNEX's existing monopoly and represents a bad deal for N.Y. residential and small business customers.
"We are watching closely the review being conducted by the PSC," said Joe Mahoney, a spokeman in the office of the Attorney General, the state's top anti-trust regulator.
Vacco may issue a statement on the subject if the PSC makes its decision Thursday, the spokesman said.
Regulators seek to balance the economic benefits and efficencies created by the merger with any negatives that may arise by strengthening NYNEX's grip on local service and the potential that has to slow the entry of new competitors.
A report by the staff of the N.Y. Public Service Commission discussed at Wednesday's hearing before the three-member panel argued that NYNEX and its merger partner should be required to immediately refund roughly $300 million.
The figure represents one third of the $908 million the report estimated would be the economic benefit of the deal.
The companies dispute this figure, arguing the potential benefit is likely to reach only $600 million by the third year of the deal, according to Bell Atlantic Chairman Ray Smith.
Consumer advocates, who oppose the merger, have countered that the companies should rebate $1.25 billion immediately to consumers, a figure that includes an estimated cost of the loss of competition resulting from the merger. That represents 15 percent of the gains the combined Bell Atlantic could expect to enjoy in the coming five years, they maintain.
However, two of the three commissioners called for any decision about a customer rebate be postponed until a more complete picture of the impact of the deal emerges.
Commission members asked whether the impact should be based on current estimates or whether the determination should wait to see what happens to pricing after the entry of new competitive forces and any savings achieved by the merger.
They also called for other tangible economic benefits to the state, such as strong assurances that the company's primary headquarters will be located in New York.
Commissioner Thomas Duleavy called for the New York corporate headquarters of the company "not to be one of form, but one of substance."
Commissioners also said they want to see more tangible benefits for wholesale and retail NYNEX customers.
They also may decide to increase an existing plan designed to spur NYNEX to improve its long-criticized customer support operations. One proposal would demand that NYNEX increase hiring of customer support personnel and rapidly bring service quality up to the standards of Bell Atlantic.
Also Thursday, the commission approved a two-zone pricing plan that would allow NYNEX competitors to selectively choose which services they purchase from the local phone company as they offer local phone services of their own.
A press advisory issued after Wednesday's meeting said the NYPSC had "reserved a final decision on the NYNEX - Bell Atlantic merger until a special Commission session scheduled for Thursday."
The meeting is set to for 1000 EST/1500 GMT in Albany.
Bell Atlantic closed Wednesday down 1-7/8 to 63-3/8. NYNEX fell 1-3/4 at 47-3/8. The declines reflected a broad decline among Baby Bell stocks and the stock market in general.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
International Business Machines Corp said its $23 billion Global Services business is to become a separate IBM group, acknowledging the significance of the fast-growing business.
In a related development, IBM Chairman Louis Gerstner reiterated in the company's annual report on Wednesday that the company planned to hire "thousands more" employees to fuel growth, most of them in Global Services.
IBM told analysts earlier this year it would probably add as many new employees in 1997 as it did in 1996, with a big chunk in Global Services.
In 1996, the computer giant's worldwide headcount grew to 241,000, up from 225,000 in 1995, mostly due to the expanding services business, an IBM spokesman said. In 1995, employment grew from 220,000 in 1994, the first time employment had grown in 10 years.
"I'd like to add here that I am very happy -- and proud -- that our transformation has created job growth," Gerstner said in his letter to shareholders, in which he described 1996 overall as "a solid year."
When Gerstner first took over the then-struggling computer giant in April 1993, one of his first actions was to take a big restructuring charge and cut 25,000 jobs from IBM.
The Global Services unit -- which designs, installs and services computers, including running entire corporate computer systems -- was formerly part of IBM's Sales and Services group.
Sales and Services will be renamed the Sales and Distribution Group, still headed by IBM Senior Vice President Ned Lautenbach.
IBM also said Dennie Welsh, who was general manager of Global Services, will be promoted to a senior vice president and report directly to Gerstner.
Welsh was also named an IBM group executive and will join IBM's executive committee, which makes strategic decisions.
"The time is right for this change," Gerstner said in an IBM memo announcing the reorganisation. "He (Welsh) and his colleagues on the services team have done an outstanding job building a great new business for IBM. This change not only reflects a logical adjustment in our organisational structure, but also a recognition of their success."
IBM's services business has been its fastest growing in recent quarters. In the fourth quarter, IBM said services revenues jumped 22 percent to $5 billion. In comparison, IBM's total revenues grew 6 percent in the fourth quarter.
"This is a transformation of the IBM company," said Sam Albert, a Scarsdale, N.Y.-based consultant. "The major revenue stream is not coming from hardware, it will come from software and services ...".
"This has some impact on the way IBM sees its future," Albert added. "Anything this important demands direct oversight by Gerstner."
Wednesday's move follows changes in December when IBM consolidated computer services under the IBM Global Services brand. IBM's services organisation had been operating in some countries outside the United States under different names.
The addition of Global Services now gives IBM five major corporate divisions. The others are the Software Group, the Server Group, which makes the computers that run networks; the Personal Systems Group; and Sales and Distribution.
With Welsh's promotion to IBM senior vice president, the company now has a total of 10 senior vice presidents.
IBM stock fell $1.50 to $137.857 on the New York Stock Exchange.
IBM shares fell in heavy trading Friday after three Wall Street firms made negative comments about the giant computer maker in the past two days, saying a stronger dollar and a product transition will hurt earnings.
The stock of International Business Machines Corp. fell $4.25 to $132.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the fourth most-active issue with more than 5.3 million shares traded.
"People are beginning to realise that it's going to be a bleak quarter," said Jay Stevens, analyst at Dean Witter. But he continued to recommend accumulating IBM stock.
Analysts said two main factors were hurting IBM's earnings prospects. Even though the world's largest computer maker will have a lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding due to its share buyback plan, currency fluctuations and expected weakness in mainframe sales will hurt the first half of 1997, they said.
Morgan Stanley on Friday cut its earnings estimates for IBM, saying that the Armonk, N.Y.-based company will make more money toward the end of the year instead of earlier. It also said results will be affected by currency fluctuations and the transition to a new mainframe model.
"Some users may wait for the new one," said Steve Milunovich, a Morgan Stanley analyst.
Morgan Stanley cut its earnings per share estimate to $2.80 from $2.97 for the second quarter and to $12.30 from $12.50 for all of 1997.
IBM earned $2.02 billion, or $3.93 a share, on revenues of $23.1 billion in the 1996 fourth quarter. For full-year 1996, it reported profits of $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share, on revenues of $75.95 billion.
Morgan Stanley continued to rate IBM's stock as an outperformer.
Analysts said IBM is expected to upgrade its low-cost mainframes to a processor with speeds that match its older bi-polar line that is being phased out.
"This is a major product transition," Stevens said.
Analysts have been expecting initial shipments of the new processors in the third quarter. Milunovich said he expects a few models will be shipped in June.
Merrill Lynch said on Thursday in a note to clients that it expects demand will be extremely good for the new machines and expects IBM to beat Wall Street's expectations of initial shipments in the third quarter.
But until then, the stronger dollar overseas will continue to weigh on earnings, the brokerage said.
Merrill did not change its current first-quarter estimate of $2.32 a share. But it expects 3 percent revenue growth in the first quarter and a tough comparison vs. a year ago.
Late Thursday, Dean Witter also lowered its 1997 earnings estimates for IBM, saying its operating income was expected to fall by 11 percent in the first quarter.
However, this is expected to be offset by a lower tax rate of 35 percent vs. a previous 39 percent, along with IBM's current stock repurchase plan, it said.
Dean Witter raised its earnings estimate for the second half of the year and kept its 1997 profit estimate at $14.25 per share.
New York state utility regulators Thursday approved the $23 billion Nynex Corp. and Bell Atlantic Corp. merger, subject to conditions the regional telephone giants must agree to by the end of March.
Consumer groups opposed to the merger that have demanded rate rebates for New York customers blasted the state Public Service Commission's decision as a sellout.
New York became the last state in Nynex's six-state service region to approve the merger, which still faces hurdles in Washington and New York.
The merger of the Baby Bells would create the nation's largest local phone company serving customers in 12 Northeastern states and Washington.
"The bedrock requirements of our approval are improved service quality and ensuring that ratepayers see tangible benefits," New York State Public Service Commission Chairman John O'Mara said.
He said in an interview that, while there would be no immediate rate reduction, "We have attached conditions that we believe will bring rate reduction."
The merger is being held up by federal regulators who are reviewing its competitive implications.
Bell Atlantic spokesman Eric Rabe said the companies now expected the deal to close after April 22, the previous target date. "Obviously, things are moving slower than we had hoped," Rabe said.
He said the Justice Department had still not indicated when it would act on the deal. He said the Federal Communications Commission said it would take 30 days after the Justice Department finishes its review before it took action.
The companies welcomed the commission's decision but said in a joint statement they were still assessing the conditions.
In addition, state Attorney General Dennis Vacco expressed concern the decision did not go far enough to protect ratepayers and said he was reviewing the deal.
After several months of hearings, the three-member panel voted for the merger and the conditions in a 15-minute meeting in Albany, the state capital.
The commission said the combined company must not move major operations that were located in New York state before the merger and that its headquarters be in New York, which New York-based Nynex and Philadelphia-based Bell Atlantic have agreed to.
The regulators focused on improving customer service in New York, where consumer groups have berated Nynex for offering what they call the worst service in the nation.
The approval calls on Nynex to accelerate spending to improve customer service, including hiring up to 1,000 new support staff by the end of 1997 in New York state.
A Nynex spokesman said the company has been hiring service personnel over the past year and would hire more in 1997. Last year, it hired 3,600 employees in service-related areas, three-fourths of them in New York state. Overall, Nynex has just over 68,000 employees.
Consumer groups were swift to criticize the commission's decision.
"We are outraged that this commission approved a merger that is completely anticompetitive," said Robert Ceisler of the New York Citizens Utility Board ratepayers' group. "The commission has sanctioned a more powerful and richer monopoly."
Consumer advocates had demanded the commission at least force Nynex to give consumers immediate rebates to compensate for the reduced competition and greater efficiencies expected from the merger.
Other conditions cited were having Bell Atlantic pledge to observe existing agreements between regulators and Nynex, that Nynex employee pension funds be protected, and that Bell Atlantic grant regulators access to its records.
Nynex stock closed down 37.5 cents at $47 while Bell Atlantic fell 75 cents to $63.625, both in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
China said on Friday it was concerned its trade surplus with the United States might affect ties and released a White Paper in defence of its policies.
Vice Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Sun Zhenyu said Beijing was taking steps to trim the surplus but action was also needed by the U.S. government and American industry.
"The issue has become such a general concern to American people from all walks of life that failure to handle the issue properly could hold up the normal development of the economic and trade relations between the two countries," Sun said in a statement given to reporters.
The statement was one of the most visible signs that Beijing policymakers were looking for ways to head off possible U.S. measures to curb China's sales to that market.
Sun expressed hope that the visit next week by U.S. Vice President Al Gore would help develop mutual trust, and he hinted the trip might coincide with the signing of some major contracts.
"I would not exclude the possibility of the signing of some contracts," he told reporters.
He added that a deal for the sale of Boeing aircraft to China was among the possibilities though the companies involved needed to agree on terms.
"We will continue to encourage our enterprises to expand imports from the United States," Sun said.
He made his remarks one day after Washington announced China's trade surplus with the United States rose to $3.72 billion in January from $2.74 billion in January last year.
Washington says China had a surplus of nearly $40 billion with the United States for all of last year while Beijing puts the figure at $10 billion.
China does not count shipments through Hong Kong and the White Paper addressed this issue by saying that both American and Chinese experts agreed those goods had an average of 40 percent added value in Hong Kong.
That meant the U.S. version of the trade imbalance was overstated, according to the White Paper.
The paper pointed out that much of the trade surplus was from China's processing of raw materials from other regions, meaning that other countries were in fact benefiting from the trade as well.
China was also providing low-cost production that had been done in Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong in the past, and was not taking jobs away from American workers.
Sun said U.S. companies had lost out on major infrastructure contracts, particularly in the electric power sector, because of a lack of government export financing, and he called for more support from the U.S. Export-Import Bank.
Washington had thwarted its own prospects in the nuclear power sector because of restrictions on nuclear technology exports to China.
"The U.S. export control policies and lingering sanctions against China have greatly restricted U.S. exports to China as well as U.S. investments in high-tech sectors," the White Paper said.
Sun noted that China had reduced its import duties sharply in recent years and that further cuts would bring the average rate to 15 percent by the year 2000 from 23 percent now.
China trumpeted the 100-day mark for the recovery of Hong Kong on Sunday and hailed late leader Deng Xiaoping for his guiding role in bringing more than a century of colonial shame to a close.
Hundreds of people gathered at midnight near Tiananmen Square in the heart of Beijing to watch a huge electronic countdown clock as it flashed only 100 days to go before the British colony reverts to Chinese rule on July 1.
Official newspapers covered their front pages with reports of the impending end of British colonial rule as called for under a Sino-British accord signed in 1984.
"We have endured 100 years of shame, 100 years of resistance and 100 years of waiting," said the Guangming Daily.
"Now in another 100 days, the hopes of generations will be realised."
The Communist Party newspaper, the People's Daily, devoted much of its front page to the historic occasion and the role played in it by the nation's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, who died last month aged 92 before he could see his dream fulfilled.
Deng guided China's negotiations with Britain and is credited with devising the formula of "one country, two systems" that allows Hong Kong to keep its capitalist system and a "high degree of autonomy" for 50 years.
"At this moment we think even more fondly of Deng Xiaoping," said the party newspaper.
"It was he who proposed the great formula of 'one country, two systems' that allowed us to peacefully resolve a thorny question left over from history and realise the complete reunification of our country..."
That praise was echoed by some of the hundreds of people who braved Beijing's chilly night air to watch the countdown clock mark the last 100 days before the transfer of power in Hong Kong.
"This is Deng's contribution," said a retired office worker surnamed Chang. "I am overjoyed."
A huge roar erupted from the crowd at midnight as students waved banners saying, "China takes the road to strength" and chanted "Hong Kong comes home".
"I'm thrilled," said An Na, a student at the Chemical Industry Institute. "I wish I didn't have to wait 100 days."
China ceded Hong Kong island to Britain in 1842 under the Treaty of Nanjing following the Opium War, and Britain later added to its holdings in the area.
While China hailed the impending recovery of Hong Kong, it had barely a passing word for the British government that decided to hand back the colony peacefully rather than contest its claim to the territory.
The official media also had little to say about China's pledges of a "high degree of autonomy" under the joint accord, though it hinted at concerns in Hong Kong and elsewhere.
The Shenzhen Special Zone Daily, published in the border boom town of Shenzhen near Hong Kong, tried to reassure residents of Hong Kong about a report on the Chinese army garrison that will be stationed in the territory.
"Don't worry, dear compatriots," it advised its readers, without saying what they might have to worry about.
The People's Daily similarly sought to deflect concerns.
"More and more people are coming to the belief that the Chinese government is reliable and capable and will faithfully carry out its promises," it said.
With just 100 days before China regains its coveted prize of Hong Kong, Beijing has sidestepped the colony's departing British masters and made sure new local leaders know where to take their cue.
China has made clear its intention to mould the territory's politics more in its own image, mapping plans to dismantle the elected legislature and water down civil liberties laws while telling Britain that objections were pointless.
"China is firmly in charge," said a Beijing-based diplomat.
Chinese Premier Li Peng has brushed aside London's hopes of monitoring the 1984 Sino-British agreement on Hong Kong after the handover, proclaiming that Beijing would implement the accord as it saw fit.
"I think this is unrealistic," Li said when asked about British plans to review the pact's implementation after the transfer of power. "After July 1, Hong Kong's sovereignty returns to China."
Under the 1984 accord, China has pledged to give Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy for 50 years after the handover.
Beijing has also ensured that the future administrators of the territory are firmly in its camp.
Since his selection by a group of 400 people vetted by Beijing, Hong Kong's leader-in-waiting Tung Chee-hwa has shown little enthusiasm for staking out positions differing from China's official party line.
BEIJING LIKES WHAT IT HEARS
The shipping tycoon-turned-politician, who has shuttled between Hong Kong and Beijing since he was named chief executive-designate last December, has echoed China's views on issues ranging from the territory's future legislature to civil liberties and textbook revisions.
He has also hurled barbs at Hong Kong democratic activists who have been critical of China.
Beijing has responded by showing its pleasure.
The official media have described Tung in a somewhat more flattering fashion than that reserved for the territory's current and last colonial governor, Chris Patten, who has clashed repeatedly with Beijing over his efforts to expand democratic institutions in the final years of British rule.
In a sign of official favour, cameras of China's national television lingered on Tung when he attended funeral rites last month for late paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, the man credited with directing the strategy that enabled Beijing to recover sovereignty over Hong Kong.
"Mr Tung knows that if he doesn't carry out Beijing's wishes, someone else will," said a Western diplomat in Beijing.
Other analysts in Beijing are willing to wait before making a judgment on Tung.
"He has to establish his credibility with the Chinese," said a foreign diplomat in Beijing who follows Hong Kong affairs.
WILL TUNG STAND UP FOR HONG KONG?
"The question is, will he stand up for Hong Kong's interests in the future?"
Some people are not so sure.
"That is the charitable assessment," said one foreign diplomat in Hong Kong.
He and other analysts suggest that Tung may be more like many of Hong Kong's business leaders who are often reluctant to confront Beijing in public, whatever the issue.
The analysts note opposition can be costly.
Jardine Matheson, one of the colony's oldest trading houses, was publicly vilified by Beijing after its directors supported political reforms proposed by Patten. It has since worked hard to mend its relationship.
Businessman Jimmy Lai printed vitriolic comments about China's premier in his Next magazine in 1994. Lai's Giordano clothing outlets ran into problems with authorities in China and he eventually sold his share in the firm.
Many businessmen would probably prefer to see their names linked to more soothing comments to Beijing's ears, such as those of Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing, on the contribution of China's late leader Deng Xiaoping.
An article by Li that was published prominently in the Communist Party newspaper, the People's Daily, praised the late party patriarch, his chosen successor and the future system for Hong Kong, all making deft use of communist jargon.
But diplomats said that for political leaders such as Tung, there is a considerable risk in being perceived as too willing to speak out on behalf of Beijing.
China wants a popular leader who can rally the territory's 6.4 million people to Beijing's cause, they said.
If its interests clash with those of Hong Kong, and Tung is perceived merely as Beijing's willing tool, the future leader risks losing his still high popular support.
"China chose him because he was acceptable to many people and would do its bidding," said a diplomat. "If he loses popularity in Hong Kong, that complicates matters for Beijing."
China gave new details on Wednesday of the failed launch of a satellite aboard its Long March 3B rocket in February, confirming that the cause lay with the new generation launcher.
The report concluded that the failure of the Long March 3B was due to an electrical problem in the power module of the "inertial platform" that operated the rocket's direction controls.
"There was no electric current output from the power module in the servo-loop on the follow-up frame of the inertia platform," a spokesman for the China Great Wall Industrial Corp, which handles China's launches, quoted the report as saying.
"All other systems operated normally," the report said.
The initial report had said briefly that the problem was a failure of the rocket's inertial platform.
The Long March 3B, which was being used in a launch for the first time, veered wildly seconds after lift-off from the Xichang satellite centre in southwestern Sichuan province.
It ended its flight in a spectacular explosion that destroyed the rocket and the U.S.-made Intelsat satellite it was carrying.
The latest report said the rocket smashed into a hillside 1.85 km (1.2 miles) from the launch site.
Official reports said six people were killed and 57 injured, although a video smuggled out by an Israeli scientist showed extensive damage to buildings in the area, suggesting that the number of casualties might have been considerably higher.
The final report said that because of the severity of the explosion, no large pieces of wreckage of the satellite or the rocket remained.
The report's conclusions were drawn largely from film of the launch and data from remote testing.
China's space programme once had a reputation for dependability, but has been marred by a string of recent failures.
It suffered a blow to its hopes to capture a significant share of the commercial satellite launch market when a Long March 3 rocket failed to lift a U.S.-built satellite into proper orbit last month.
The preliminary conclusion blamed the failure on a problem with the third-stage booster of the Long March 3 rocket, which is supposed to be one of China's most reliable launch vehicles.
China has come under pressure from potential foreign customers as well as the insurance industry to disclose more information on the problems with its launches so far.
In January 1995, a Long March rocket blew up, destroying the Apstar 2 satellite and killing six people on the ground.
However, China successfully launched Hong Kong's Apstar 1A telecommunications satellite in July after delaying the launch following last February's Long March 3B explosion.
U.S. Vice President Al Gore arrived in Beijing on Monday to heal Sino-U.S. ties and pave the way for an exchange of presidential visits amid controversy about possible Chinese efforts to influence U.S. elections.
Gore told reporters before he left Tokyo for Beijing that he would not shy away from issues such as human rights in talks with Chinese leaders during his four-day visit, but had no plans for specific meetings with human rights activists.
Speaking after a 24-hour stay in Tokyo Gore said, however, that he could not rule out talks with activists at U.S. embassy functions while he was in China.
The controversy over U.S. accusations that China may have made illegal contributions to the Democratic Party cast a cloud over the four-day visit aimed at healing ties damaged by disputes ranging from human rights to trade and Taiwan.
The official People's Daily said on Monday the Chinese government had not made any payments to the Democratic Party and that an improvement in Sino-U.S. ties was due to efforts by the two governments and their people.
Asked what U.S. concerns he would raise in Beijing, Gore replied: "I will, of course, discuss human rights in my meetings with the leadership of China, nor will it be a surprise to them to hear these matters raised."
But he added: "I have no specific meeting of that kind (planned with human rights activists)."
Human rights abuses in China have long been a sore spot in Sino-U.S. relations, particularly since China called in the army to crush a student-led democracy movement in Beijing in 1989.
Gore is the most senior U.S. official to visit China since then President George Bush, who toured China just months before the 1989 crackdown that sent Sino-U.S. ties into a tailspin.
In its annual report on human rights, the U.S. State Department accused Beijing of effectively silencing public dissent in 1996 through jailings, intimidation or exile.
Sino-U.S. relations had been strained by disputes ranging from human rights to trade and Taiwan, but Washington and Beijing have worked hard to improve ties in recent months.
Gore's trip to China, part of an Asian tour that includes South Korea, is aimed at paving the way for an exchange of visits by U.S. President Bill Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin over the next year.
The sister of China's most prominent dissident has appealed to Gore to ask Beijing to free him from a 14-year jail term when he meets China's leaders on Tuesday and Wednesday.
The health of veteran dissident Wei Jingsheng was deteriorating in a Chinese jail and his requests for medical care had been ignored by prison authorities, a U.S.-based human rights group quoted his family as saying after a recent visit.
In a letter to Gore, Wei's sister called on the U.S. vice president to use the opportunity of his meetings this week with Chinese leaders to appeal for the release of her brother.
"I ask you to appeal to the Chinese government for my brother's prompt release and, until prior to his release, for his parole for medical treatment," wrote Wei Shanshan in a letter dated March 4, a copy of which was made available by the New York-based group Human Rights in China.
Although U.S. officials were negotiating with their Chinese counterparts to try to hammer out various agreements in time for Gore's trip, no dramatic breakthroughs are expected.
In fact, Gore's advisers had a debate over whether he should even participate in a signing ceremony in which China plans to order new aircraft from Boeing Co, a move that will generate jobs and benefit the U.S. economy.
Although officials said there was no doubt Gore would participate in such an event if a final contract was reached, the fact there was any question underscored the sensitivity of the political funding issue.
China said on Monday it had not made contributions to the U.S. Democratic Party to influence American policy and the visit by U.S. Vice President Al Gore had no link to improper payments.
The official People's Daily also pointed an accusing finger at Taiwan for stirring up accusations of Chinese involvement to try to shift blame from itself.
"The Chinese government is not involved in the so-called 'political contributions scandal' in the slightest way and is entirely free of guilt," said the newspaper in a signed commentary.
The Washington Post has reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation warned six members of Congress last year that they had been targeted by China to receive illegal campaign contributions from foreign corporations.
"The development of Sino-U.S. relations is based on principles," the People's Daily said.
Gore is scheduled to arrive in Beijing later on Monday, making him the most senior U.S. official to visit in eight years.
His trip is aimed at healing ties that had been badly strained by disputes ranging from human rights to trade and Taiwan.
It is also intended to pave the way for an exchange of visits by U.S. President Bill Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin.
"The continuation of high level visits, such as the visit of U.S. Vice President Gore and others, is due to the efforts of the two governments and their peoples," the newspaper said.
"To insist that this is linked to the so-called contributions scandal is ridiculous," it said. "It is a complete fabrication to allege that the improvement in Sino-U.S. relations is due to any improper payments by the Chinese government."
The People's Daily commentary condemned Taiwan as well as news organisations from the island for the storm of criticism that has engulfed China.
"It is widely known that the 'political payments case' stems from Taiwan," the newspaper said.
It referred to a report last year by a Hong Kong publication, the Chinese language edition of Asiaweek magazine, that said Liu Tai-ying, head of the business management committee of Taiwan's ruling Nationalist Party, had expressed a willingness to contribute $15 million.
The People's Daily did not mention that Taiwan has denied the allegations and has sued the magazine.
"For some Taiwan politicians it appears that the best way out of their troubles is to put the blame elsewhere," said the newspaper.
Taiwan and China have been rivals since the Nationalists fled to the island after their defeat on the mainland by the communists in 1949.
The United States formally recognises China but maintains trade and other unofficial ties with Taiwan.
Washington sent warships near Taiwan in a show of support when Beijing staged war games and missile tests to intimidate the island early last year.
America Online Inc. said on Tuesday it plans to launch a national Internet service in Japan in mid-April, and vowed to make Japan its biggest international market within a couple of years.
"Japan is a huge market opportunity for AOL, and we are pursuing it aggressively," AOL Chairman Steve Case said in a statement. "Over the next few years, we plan to make Japan our largest international market."
AOL Japan Inc. is a three-way joint venture by America Online, Mitsui &amp; Co. Ltd., a diversified Japanese trading company; and publisher Nihon Keizai Shimbun Inc., or Nikkei. America Online owns a 50 percent stake, Mitsui 40 percent and Nikkei 10 percent.
Taking aim at established rivals in Japan, officials with Dulles, Va.-based America Online, the world's No. 1 online service, said the new service would offer a range of graphically oriented, multimedia features not available on the largely text-based services of other Japanese online services.
Leading online and Internet service providers include Nifty-serve, a 2 million-member Japanese licensee of Columbus, Ohio-based CompuServe Corp. ; PCVAN, a unit of Fujitsu Ltd. and ASCIINet, a unit of ASCII Corp..
AOL Japan promised to make its service uniquely Japanese, with content, customer service, billing and management all rendered in the Japanese language.
AOL Japan will be offered at a monthly fee of 980 Japanese yen, or about $8, for three hours' use, and 480 yen, or $4, for each additional hour, about half the hourly price of Nifty-serve, Japan's dominant online service.
New AOL Japan members will get a 10-hour free trial in the first month, the company said.
AOL International President Jack Davies said the service will offer a fixed price for access to all information services, in contrast to Nifty-Serve requirements for access to some databases.
Another newcomer to Japan's market for online and Internet access is Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft Corp.'s Microsoft Network (MSN), which is allied with national phone company Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp..
MSN Network claims more than 200,000 members in Japan.
Industry analyst Peter Krasilovsky said AOL Japan and MSN were positioned to rapidly acquire market share from incumbent online service providers like Nifty-Serve, whose services have an antiquated look compared to AOL.
"It looks like AOL will be a major player, battling it out with the Microsoft Network," said Krasilovsky of Arlen Communications, a consulting group based in Bethesda, Md.
Japan's total online audience is estimated at around 5.7 million computer users, America Online said, citing recent statistics from market research firm International Data Corp.
AOL Japan will have access to news from Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading financial newspaper and other well-known Japanese publications.
The service will supply sports, news and entertainment to Japanese subscribers and give them direct access to other America Online services around the world, plus member-to-member chat groups, electronic mail and Internet access.
Additional partnerships will be announced with major Japanese publishers before the service is launched April 15, America Online officials said.
Initially, about two-thirds of Japan's population will be able to dial the service via local numbers, officials said. The company plans to make more comprehensive access available shortly. Like its North American and European cousins, AOL Japan will target home computer users, not businesses.
America Online is the world's largest online service with 8 million subscribers. CompuServe is second at 5.3 million members, including the 2 million Nifty-Serve members.
America Online also said Tuesday its international subscriber count had surpassed the 600,000 mark and was on track to reach 1 million members by September.
America Online has nearly 500,000 members in Europe, and AOL Canada has more than 100,000 members, the company said.
"Our goal is to have 1 million members outside of the U.S. by September 1997. We think we are well on track to acheive that with the growth in Japan and other countries," Davies said in a phone interview.
China has made a gesture to the United States by ordering Boeing jets but it has left the door open to the aircraft maker's European rival in a thinly veiled mix of politics and commerce, analysts said on Tuesday.
They said improving Sino-U.S. ties, highlighted by the visit of U.S. Vice President Al Gore, had enabled Boeing Co to sign a pact to sell five 777s to Air China for $685 million.
But Beijing was holding back orders for planes it clearly needed, keeping a close eye on the progress of Sino-U.S. ties and squeezing maximum concessions from Washington on a range of trade issues, they said.
"This is a very political game," said a foreign diplomat.
"The Chinese are moving ahead cautiously. The decisions are made by (Premier) Li Peng himself."
Diplomats said new deals for Boeing or rival Airbus Industrie could be linked to China's campaign to join the World Trade Organisation.
The United States has been the most vocal advocate of wresting further concessions from China in liberalising its domestic market before it is allowed to join the trade body.
Beijing may also be hoping to make progress in its bid to persuade Washington to grant it permanent most favoured nation trading status to avoid an annual review.
Boeing officials said they had been looking to sell 10 of their twin-engine 777s to Air China, the main Chinese international carrier.
They insisted the smaller-than-hoped-for order, delayed by more than one year by Sino-U.S. friction, was a commercial decision and they were confident of making more sales for the same type of plane in future.
China often assails the West for mixing trade and diplomacy.
But the political drama behind the Boeing deal was highlighted by the signing ceremony in the Great Hall of the People as both Gore and Premier Li looked on.
Gore is the most senior U.S. official to visit China since then-president George Bush travelled to Beijing in early 1989 -- just months before a crackdown on democracy protests in the Chinese capital's Tiananmen Square.
"Airbus will be disappointed at today's order," said a another Western diplomat.
"They were looking to sell the A330-300," a twin-engine jet that Airbus says it has not yet sold in China.
But Boeing has hardly dealt its key rival a knockout blow.
"This is not a mega-order," said an industry analyst.
The next sign of how political ties translate into contracts could emerge at the forthcoming visit by French President Jacques Chirac.
Analysts said they would watch closely to see whether new plane orders go to Airbus Industrie and how many planes were purchased.
China has said it will put in service some 240 more planes during the current five-year plan ending in the year 2000 to keep up with rising demand for domestic and international air travel. Most of those planes have yet to be ordered.
Boeing officials, quoting Chinese data, said they were well ahead in the China market so far with some 216 planes in service against 29 for Airbus.
But Boeing underwent a dry spell in 1996, notching only a handful of sales in a year in which Sino-U.S. ties were rocked by Beijing's sabre-rattling aimed at Taiwan as well as disputes over trade, arms control and human rights.
Airbus signed a pact for 30 of the Airbus A320 narrow body jets in April last year in a deal worth $1.5 billion.
Those planes compete with Boeing's smaller 737 jets.
Boeing officials said that with some of the political friction out of the way, they expect more market inroads, and note the latest deal brings this year's sales to $1.2 billion.
But analysts cautioned that despite the improvement in Sino-U.S. ties, issues between the two states were unlikely to be resolved soon and would add a political tint to future commercial deals.
Boeing Co on Tuesday signed a $685 million contract to sell jets to China with Vice President Al Gore on hand, signalling a boost in business relations after Beijing only a year ago had turned to European rival Airbus.
Boeing and Chinese aviation officials inked a contract for five 777-200 jets in a ceremony at the cavernous Great Hall of the People, also attended by Chinese Premier Li Peng.
Under the accord, Chinese state-run international carrier Air China will take delivery of the planes in 1998 and 1999.
"Air China's order is a vote of confidence in the world's best-selling airplane in its market," said Ronald Woodard, president of Boeing Commercial Airplane Group.
Woodard told reporters both sides had reached basic agreement a year ago, but signing faced lengthy delays because of political differences between China and the United States.
"There is no doubt the contract was not executed when it was ready because of tension between the U.S. and China last year and the year before," he told reporters at a news briefing after the ceremony.
"There are times when politics are involved," he said.
A year ago, China and the United States were at odds over a range of issues from trade and human rights to Beijing's sabre-rattling over Taiwan.
Chinese Premier Li Peng was also on hand when Beijing turned to the European consortium Airbus Industrie in April last year, buying 30 airliners in a $1.5 billion deal.
Since then, Sino-U.S. tensions have eased as the two sides have made painstaking efforts to patch up their differences.
The Gore visit is aimed at ensuring that trend continues.
Gore is the most senior U.S. official to visit China since then-president George Bush travelled to Beijing in early 1989 -- just months before a crackdown on democracy protests in the Chinese capital's Tiananmen Square.
Boeing officials tried to play down last minute questions about whether Gore would attend the signing ceremony, saying there never was any doubt.
"I was told he'd be there and he was," said Woodard.
U.S. officials and Boeing were non-committal as late as on Monday about Gore's plans.
The Clinton administration has been on the defensive over accusations of illegal Chinese contributions to the Democratic Party.
China has angrily denounced the allegations, insisting that it did not make any payments and saying that rival Taiwan may be behind its current difficulties.
The Washington Post has said the Federal Bureau of Investigation warned six members of Congress last year that they had been targeted by China to receive illegal campaign contributions from foreign corporations.
Boeing officials said they hoped the United States would take further steps to keep the relationship healthy.
"We strongly and fully support granting China permanent Most Favoured Nation status and China's accession to the World Trade Organisation. Both are critical to achieving normalised world trade," Woodard said.
China has sought permanent preferential trade status from the United States to avoid an annual review.
It has also pushed for entry into the global trade body, but Washington has insisted that Beijing agree to liberalise more of its trade policies first.
Boeing walked away from the latest contract signing ceremony with a bit less than it wanted.
Company officials said they had been hoping to sell 10 of the 777s to China. They said, however, this was a commercial decision and they were hopeful of further orders in the future.
A top Chinese official for contacts with Taiwan ruled out an early resumption of talks on reunification because the island's leaders were pursuing "splittist" policies, the China Daily said on Tuesday.
It also quoted Tang Shubei, vice-chairman of the Association for Relations across the Taiwan Strait (ARATS), as saying that Taiwanese authorities did not want the handover of Hong Kong to go smoothly and might try to disrupt the transfer of power.
"In the long term the mainland and Taiwan should sit down at the negotiating table to discuss cross-straits issues under the 'one-China' policy," Tang was quoted as saying.
But he said the atmosphere for talks would not improve in the short term unless Taiwan's leaders, including its "so-called" President Lee Teng-hui, halted their "splittist" activities aimed at independence for the island.
China and Taiwan have been rivals since the Nationalist government fled to the island after its defeat by the communists in the Chinese civil war in 1949.
Beijing regards Taiwan as a renegade province and tries to isolate it diplomatically.
Talks between the two sides were broken off after President Lee made a landmark private visit to the United States in mid-1995, enraging Beijing.
"We have the patience to handle the issue of the peaceful reunification of the motherland," Tang said.
The newspaper also said Taiwan authorities would likely take measures to reduce the impact on the island from the success of China's policies towards Hong Kong, which reverts to Beijing sovereignty on July 1 after 150 years of British rule.
"According to Tang, there is information that Taiwan forces in Hong Kong are planning to cause trouble, such as demonstrations around July 1, when China resumes its exercise of sovereignty over the territory," the newspaper said.
Tang also repeated Beijing's long-held stance that the United States should halt arms sales to Taiwan.
The Chinese official's remarks were published by the English language newspaper as the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, was visiting Taiwan.
Beijing insists the 1989 winner of the Nobel Peace prize is waging a campaign for independence for Tibet.
Tang made no mention of Beijing's announcement last week that it would return a Taiwanese man suspected of hijacking a Taiwan passenger jet to mainland China.
Beijing wants Taiwan to return Chinese hijackers now in Taiwanese jails but so far it has been disappointed.
Cisco Systems Inc. is set to announce the acquisition of Telesend Inc., a developer of low-cost, high-speed Internet access technology, sources familiar with the deal said Tuesday.
Cisco agreed to acquire Telesend, a privately-held Cupertino, Calif.-based firm, in exchange for an unspecified amount of stock in Cisco, the sources said.
Additional financial terms were not available.
Telesend is the developer of a new telecommunications technology known as ISDN DSL, or IDSL for short. The full name is Integrated Services Digital Network Digital Subscriber Line.
A Cisco spokesman had no comment on the acquisition other than to say, "Most of our acquisitions are of small, privately-held firms."
The spokesman, Adam Stein, said Cisco has made 14 mainly technology-oriented acquisitions in the last three-and-a-half years.
Officials of Telesend were not available to comment, but an automated voicemail system answering calls at Telesend's offices in Cupertino transferred callers directly to a Cisco switchboard operator. Cisco is headquartered in nearby San Jose.
Telesend's IDSL is a local-loop modem technology that allows phone companies to offer Internet access connections from central office switches to local customers at speeds of up to 128,000 bits per second, or about four times the speed of standard phone lines.
Kieran Taylor, an analyst at market research firm TeleChoice Inc., said buying Telesend is a strategic move by Cisco to counter IDSL products announced a month and a half ago by rival equipment maker Ascend Communications Inc.
After two years of hype and euphoria about the Internet and its sweeping impact on the computer industry, a reality check is setting in as investors are asking: Where's the money?
A Tucson, Ariz., industry conference this week called PC Forum -- a "schmooze fest" once populated mostly by the upper echelon of the computer industry -- brought together telecommunications and media company leaders as well as those from computer behemoths and start-ups.
Many attendees said there is more concern now about profits and business models.
"It's now coming to practical terms," said Ed Bennett, former president of the Prodigy Services online service. "Where is the money coming from? ... But the raw potential of the industry hasn't changed, and that's a good thing."
So far, it is still not clear what type of business plan will lead to hefty revenues and profits from the Internet, whether it be advertising-based, subscription-based or some other way of making money.
Recent failures or financial problems at Web-based ventures, such as the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing of American Cybercast, one of the first Web soap opera sites, are causing concern.
Executives also pointed to the recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing by Amazon.com, which pioneered bookselling on the Internet, for its anticipated initial public offering (IPO).
Seattle-based Amazon.com, known as one of the most successful ventures and best-known examples of Internet commerce, said it lost $5.8 million in 1996, mostly due to increased investments in technology and marketing.
"There is no question that there is an increased focus on the part of analysts and investors on when are they going to make money," said Sheldon Laube, chief technology officer of U.S. Web., a privately held Santa Clara, Calif. company which franchises Web development, training and consulting services.
"It's a healthy part of the evolution of the business," Laube said. "The hype is now evolving into reality and ultimately that is what technology is all about."
While the conference is a forum for discussing industry issues and exchanging ideas -- sometimes lofty and intellectual ones such as the use of metaphors and language to describe this new medium -- a number of small start-up companies come to make their debut before their peers. Industry executives, analysts and investors come to meet and make deals in the hallways.
This year, in the so-called "debutantes" presentations, many venture capitalists, Wall Street analysts and fund managers checked out 12 early start-ups.
The PC Forum, run by industry guru Esther Dyson, is considered such an important part of a start-up company's debut that Fast Company magazine followed around executives of two small companies to chronicle their participation at the conference.
"This is the 'Lollapalooza' of the Internet," Bennett said, who remains on Prodigy's board, referring to the alternative music festival. "Not every band is going to get signed."
This year, questions about business models dominated many start-up presentations more than the technology. During a presentation by a start-up called NetBot Inc., whose Internet "shopping assistant" made its debut, one attendee interrupted to ask about the Seattle-based firm's business model, even before the company demonstrated its software called Jango.
"People are much more pragmatic when they look at these companies," said Bruce Smith, a Merrill Lynch Internet analyst. "You like to look at companies that have thought through their business model and how they will compete with the 800-pound gorilla (Microsoft Corp.)."
And as the stocks of other publicly traded companies such as Internet search engines firms like Yahoo! Inc., Excite Inc., and Lycos Inc. ; Internet access providers; online services and other Internet software companies continue to drop on Wall Street, start-ups compete for fewer and fewer venture capital dollars.
Some promising IPO candidates are also mulling being acquired, such as PointCast Inc.'s much-rumoured discussions two weeks ago to be acquired by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., the owner of the Fox television network and newspapers such as the New York Post.
PointCast, a pioneer in so-called push technology, said last week its present intention was to remain independent.
"In the venture capital business, you can see the transition from a seller's market to a buyer's market," said Roger McNamee, general partner at Integral Partners in Menlo Park, Calif. "Entrepreneurs are beginning to wonder where their next dollar of capital will come from."
Even in its new-found pragmatism, the industry remains ever optimistic about the future. Conference leader Dyson and many of the speakers gathered together at the end of the conference with the creator of the World Wide Web Tim Berners-Lee, who now heads up the World Wide Web Consortium.
"The competition is what produces the incredible rate of development," Berners-Lee said.
China's stock regulators are trying to reassert control over what they see as backdoor listings of Chinese companies in Hong Kong, market sources said on Thursday.
They said the new concerns were triggered by the listing this week of GITIC Enterprises, a Hong Kong company that is controlled indirectly by the Guangdong International Trust and Investment Corp (GITIC), based in the south China city of Guangzhou.
They said the problem was particularly sensitive because of the territory's return to Chinese sovereignty on July 1 under a Sino-British accord that promises a high degree of autonomy for 50 years after the transfer of political power.
"The (Chinese) authorities are certainly worried about this issue and we could see some guidelines emerge before too long," said a securities industry executive.
A foreign securities company executive agreed.
"China is worried that a number of good companies will inject mainland assets into Hong Kong companies and then take them public without their approval."
Chinese companies that wish to list shares abroad, usually in Hong Kong, need clearance from a number of central government regulatory bodies, including the watchdog agency, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC).
Rules for Hong Kong companies controlled by Chinese interests are less clear, but recently many of these firms have first gained approval from Beijing.
GITIC Enterprises did not get prior clearance and regulatory objections are believed to have presented a last-minute hurdle.
The offer was allowed to proceed, however, and was a stunning success. The issue, nearly 900 times subscribed, finished its first day of trading on Wednesday at HK$4.375 compared with its offer price of HK$1.05.
"The company is listed now so there is no need to address the issue of whether the CSRC was involved," said an official of parent company GITIC, speaking by telephone from Guangzhou.
At least two more Hong Kong-registered companies controlled by Chinese firms from Beijing and Tianjin were preparing to offer shares in Hong Kong. They were likely to wait for Chinese regulatory clearance, sources said.
Another Guangdong company has postponed plans for an offer of shares by a Hong Kong company it controls because of the latest developments, said sources in Beijing and Hong Kong.
"The problem is mainly with Guangdong province," said a regulator in Beijing.
Guangdong, far from the reach of authorities in Beijing and backed by considerable financial muscle, has often been at odds with central government directives.
The scope of control over Hong Kong is even more sensitive.
The CSRC and other financial regulators have repeatedly said they would not interfere in supervisory matters in Hong Kong, in keeping with Beijing's promises for the territory after the handover.
An official at the CSRC was unable to clarify the extent of the agency's regulatory powers on this issue.
"I can't comment," said the official. "It is too sensitive."
Securities regulators in Guangdong underscored the problem of reaching agreement on the issue.
"When a company seeks permission from the CSRC we are usually aware of it," said a provincial regulatory official.
"But a Hong Kong-registered company does not necessarily have to go through the CSRC."
China published on Saturday a list of anti-dumping rules to protect local companies from unfair foreign competition.
Chinese economists said the rules would help domestic companies, many of them targets of similar dumping claims overseas, protect their share of the domestic market.
They also said the move appeared to be aimed at giving a legal framework to protection from unfair competition and clarifying procedures for its use.
"Many Chinese companies are unable to compete in the face of unfair trade practices," economist Cheng Xiusheng of the State Council (cabinet) development research centre told Reuters.
"Many other countries have imposed anti-dumping duties against Chinese products and China needs a system to regulate its own market and protect its companies," he said.
The rules, published in the official People's Daily, give the government the right to determine whether imported goods are aided by official subsidies and impose anti-dumping duties on foreign goods. Cash guarantees can be demanded to ensure payment.
Prices in the exporting country or third countries will be used to determine a fair price for goods in dispute and set a countervailing duty.
The rules also provide guidelines for domestic companies to file complaints about unfair competition and set a maximum length of 12 months for an investigation. Special cases are allowed to take 18 months.
The rules also empower the state to take retaliatory measures against countries that impose "discriminatory" countervailing duties against Chinese goods.
Beijing's official media have said the dumping of foreign goods on the domestic market had cost China some 10 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) a year and had caused the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
Many domestic manufacturers were pressuring the government to take steps to offset these policies, newspapers have said.
Other economists said China was trying to codify the protection of its industries and bring its trade policies more in line with international practice.
They added that as China sought to join the World Trade Organisation it was being forced to make its polices more transparent.
China published on Saturday a list of anti-dumping rules to protect local companies from unfair foreign competition.
Chinese economists said the rules would help domestic companies, many of them targets of similar dumping claims overseas, protect their share of the domestic market.
They also said the move appeared to be aimed at giving a legal framework to protection from unfair competition and clarifying procedures for its use.
"Many Chinese companies are unable to compete in the face of unfair trade practices," economist Cheng Xiusheng of the State Council (cabinet) development research centre told Reuters.
"Many other countries have imposed anti-dumping duties against Chinese products and China needs a system to regulate its own market and protect its companies," he said.
The rules, published in the official People's Daily, give the government the right to determine whether imported goods are aided by official subsidies and impose anti-dumping duties on foreign goods. Cash guarantees can be demanded to ensure payment.
Prices in the exporting country or third countries will be used to determine a fair price for goods in dispute and set a countervailing duty.
The rules also provide guidelines for domestic companies to file complaints about unfair competition and set a maximum length of 12 months for an investigation. Special cases are allowed to take 18 months. The rules also empower the state to take retaliatory measures against countries that impose "discriminatory" countervailing duties against Chinese goods.
Beijing's official media have said the dumping of foreign goods on the domestic market had cost China some 10 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) a year and had caused the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
Many domestic manufacturers were pressuring the government to take steps to offset these policies, newspapers have said.
Other economists said China was trying to codify the protection of its industries and bring its trade policies more in line with international practice.
They added that as China sought to join the World Trade Organisation it was being forced to make its polices more transparent.
The United States and China may not be on the verge of a breakthrough in often testy ties, but both sides can claim gains from visits by U.S. Vice President Al Gore and House Speaker Newt Gingrich, analysts said on Monday.
The key objective for the two sides was to ensure they moved closer to the goal of an exchange of presidential visits, putting the final seal on efforts to repair damaged relations.
"Gore's visit took them one step closer to that goal," said a foreign diplomat in Beijing.
Gore reassured the Chinese that Washington remained committed to an exchange of visits by U.S. President Bill Clinton and China's President Jiang Zemin, telling reporters that officials from both countries were working on specific dates.
The United States and China have been moving painstakingly to ease strains over disputes ranging from Taiwan to trade and human rights.
Gore, the most senior U.S. official in Beijing since the 1989 crackdown on student demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, said his talks with Chinese leaders last week touched on the key areas of disagreement but he described China's reaction as milder than in the past.
While the speaker of the House of Representatives had somewhat tougher talk in public for his Chinese hosts, pointedly referring to Beijing's policies on human rights and Taiwan, the content was not unexpected.
"He is a bit less constrained in what he can say," said a Chinese journalist who covers foreign affairs. "China recognises this."
More importantly for China's leaders, the visit by the key Republican and other members of a bipartisan congressional delegation presented an opportunity for Beijing to make a personal pitch on major issues such as Taiwan.
Jiang used his meeting with Gingrich on Friday to note how pleased he was that more congressmen were visiting China to see first hand the importance of the Taiwan issue to Beijing.
China and Taiwan, rivals since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, are vying for the sympathies of American policymakers and the public.
The United States recognises China but has strong commercial and other unofficial ties with the island that Beijing views as a renegade province.
Beijing believes it was misled by Washington over the landmark 1995 visit to the U.S. by Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui. The administration assured Beijing that no visit would be permitted but the trip was allowed to proceed under pressure from Congress.
Both Washington and Beijing struggled to ensure that accusations of illegal Chinese funding for the Democratic Party did not overshadow the Gore visit.
Gore reassured Beijing that unless there was firm evidence of illegal payments, the issue would not affect U.S. policy.
The visit also underscored Washington's hopes that no one issue be allowed to dominate the Sino-U.S. relationship.
"Trade issues as well as human rights will all remain on the table for discussion in the future," said another diplomat. If there was any one area where specific progress could be expected soon, perhaps it was trade, another diplomat said.
American figures put the U.S. trade deficit with China at about $40 billion last year, and Washington has been pushing for greater access to the China market to narrow the gap.
Chinese officials have conceded they are concerned over the trade issue.
During the Gore visit, U.S. aircraft maker Boeing nailed down a $685 million jet sale and General Motors gained clearance for a long-stalled car venture.
"We may see more such big contracts in the coming months," said a diplomat. "But a $40 billion (U.S.) trade deficit is not going to go away overnight."
The Australian stock exchange on Tuesday used the China visit of Prime Minister John Howard to make a high profile sales pitch for Chinese companies to list shares on Australia's stock market.
The Australian prime minister, before meeting China's President Jiang Zemin, found time to open a seminar for China's market regulators and top-level managers of its state-run companies designed to show them why they should look to Australia to raise capital.
Senior officials from the Australian Stock Exchange as well as brokerages and legal firms delivered the message that Australia had much to offer.
"Cross-border equities trading now amounts to around $4 trillion a year, which no stock market can afford to ignore," Australian Stock Exchange chairman Maurice Newman told the seminar.
"I hope that one day we may be able to welcome you to our market."
Most Chinese companies that have listed their shares abroad have chosen Hong Kong where investors have been snapping up China-related stocks.
One recent listing of a China-linked company was nearly 900 times oversubscribed, and Australia may find it difficult to generate that kind of interest.
Newman later told reporters that 19 of 31 Asian-owned companies on the Australian exchange already had a China connection. These companies have often used a corporation not based in China to make the listing, in effect sidestepping regulatory curbs in their home country.
Trading in some of those issues has not been active.
"The liquidity of those companies is mixed," said Newman. "As a group we would prefer that it were greater."
Australia may soon get its first direct Chinese listing.
Taihang Cement, a cement producer based in the northern province of Hebei, has already gained approval from Chinese regulatory authorities for a foreign listing.
Company officials told reporters they hoped to list their shares in Australia by the year-end.
"We chose Australia because we have a foundation there," said Zhang Zhixian, Taihang's manager of investment development, noting that the company exports cement to Australia.
Company officials said the exact size of the offer had not been set but would range between 100 and 200 million yuan ($12-24 million).
Other participants at the seminar said Australia might target its efforts at sectors where Australia is already strong, such as in natural resources.
"Australia would have a natural advantage in infrastructure and resource-based companies," said Tony Greenwood, of law firm Blake Dawson Waldron, noting the heavy weighting of such stocks in Australia.
One area of concern for Chinese companies will be financial transparency, which has posed a problem for them in the past.
Some Chinese companies have had trouble complying with domestic regulations and others have come under criticism in Hong Kong for lack of transparency.
"Our concern must also be the integrity of our market," said Newman.
"It is important that companies are familiar with our listing requirements and they observe them faithfully."
Lloyd's of London on Wednesday said that preliminary underwriting profits had topped the one billion pound mark for the second year running despite a slight drop from the previous year's level.
The insurance market made profits of 1.005 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) before tax and after members' personal expenses for the 1994 underwriting year. That was down from 1993's profits of 1.084 billion pounds but were in line with forecasts made by the market at the time of last year's figures.
Lloyd's reports results three years in arrears. The presence of corporate members in the 1994 numbers for the first time prompted a slightly earlier release of the figures than usual.
Corporate funds have been increasingly replacing Names -- individuals whose asets have traditionally supported the market -- since 1994 and account for around 44 percent of the capital underpinning business written this year.
Lloyd's returned to profit last year after five years of record losses totalling more than eight billion pounds which had threatened the very survival of the world's oldest insurance market.
Failure of the market was avoided with the successful completion of Lloyd's reconstruction plan last year.
The fall in profitability from one year to the next is a reflection of the cyclical nature of the insurance industry.
Years of high returns are often followed by more competitive pricing until an upturn in claims reverses the trend.
The preliminary 1994 result is based on an initial review of syndicate returns representing 94 per cent of the market's 1994 capacity of 10.898 billion pounds, and projections for the remaining syndicates.
Final figures for the 1994 year will be published in Lloyd's Global Results in early June when projected results for the 1995 and 1996 years of account will also be published.
Lloyd's Global Results 1995 projected a profit for the 1994 underwriting year of 1.008 billion pounds, using a sterling exchange rate of $1.55. The preliminary result of 1.005 billion is based on the exchange rate at 31 December 1996 of $1.71. ($ = 0.606 British Pounds)
CompuServe Corp is in talks to be acquired by America Online Inc, a move that would bring new members to AOL, beef up its network and expand its corporate and international presence, industry sources said on Wednesday.
Earlier, CompuServe and H&amp;R Block Inc confirmed market rumors that they were in discussions for a possible "business combination" involving CompuServe. Neither CompuServe nor H&amp;R Block, which owns about 80 percent of the computer online service, would provide further details.  
Industry sources said AOL was involved in talks to buy its beleaguered competitor, possibly in an all-stock transaction.
"It's part of the consolidation mechanism that is taking place in the marketplace," said Frank Dzubeck, president of Communications Network Architects in Washington. "They have had conversations off and on....Probably this conversation has gotten reasonably heavy since AOL got into problems having to spend all sorts of money on its network."  
An H&amp;R Block spokeswomen said she could not elaborate on a statement that confirmed Block and CompuServe were engaged in external discussions regarding a possible business transaction with CompuServe.
AOL declined to comment on the market rumors of talks with CompuServe.  
While AOL shares jumped on Tuesday as rumors circulated in the market, the stock retreated 1-1/8 on Wednesday to 44-5/8, as some analysts said such a deal would prove distracting and costly for AOL, given its current problems achieving profitability.
"There is not a lot of value to the CompuServe subscriber base," said Jamie Kiggen, a Cowen &amp; Co analyst.
"There is no guarantee they would stay with AOL. It would be a very dilutive and distracting acquisition for AOL," he said. "AOL is just about to turn profitable here, and we don't need them to buy a money-losing company."  
"There is no good reason for AOL to buy CompuServe," said Abhishek Gami, a Nesbitt Burns Securities analyst. "If AOL does buy them, it would be a major negative for AOL."
He said a merger would raise the eyebrows of antitrust regulators at the U.S. Justice Department because it would result in a big gain in AOL's share of the U.S. online services market.
AOL, the No.1 online service, currently has eight million members. CompuServe is second with 3.1 million in the United States and Europe and 2.2 million licensed members in Japan, where it receives royalty payments.  
However, AOL and CompuServe both provide Internet access, and that market has many more players than the proprietary online service business, where there are only four main providers.
Analysts said AOL would have to pay for any deal with stock because of its cash position is low. Its cash and equivalents were listed at $130 million at the end of 1996. Using AOL's stock to pay for the 92.6 million CompuServe shares outstanding (of which H&amp;R Block owns about 74 million) would dilute AOL's shares.
Despite the negative reactions, some analysts said a CompuServe merger could be appealing to AOL.  
Integration of the contrasting images of AOL and CompuServe could also present a big problem. AOL is mainly seen as a consumer online service, while CompuServe is more oriented to business customers and users with more technical sophistication.
Indeed, some analysts said it would be difficult to convert die-hard CompuServe users to AOL.
"Domestically, being a CompuServe user is almost a positive statement that one is not an AOL user," said Adam Schoenfeld, a Jupiter Communications analyst. "AOL has probably already poached every CompuServe user possible."     Some analysts said
that CompuServe might be a better match for one of the regional Bell operating companies, some of whom are still seeking to enter the Internet access business.
"It has a national network and a well-known brand name that could be reinvigorated," said Peter Krasilovsky, an analyst with Arlen Communications Inc in Bethesda, Maryland. "You don't want to count out the telcos."
Shareholders of MCI Communications Corp are expected to vote overwhelmingly in favor of the proposed merger with British Telecommunications Plc at MCI's annual shareholder meeting Wednesday.
The shareholder vote is one of the first major milestones on the road to winning approval for the $23 billion cross-border merger, which will create a combined company known as Concert Plc with $40.6 billion in revenues.  
The merger awaits regulatory approvals in Washington, London and Brussels, the headquarters of the European Commission. Company officials are confident the merger -- announced in November 1996 -- is on track to close in the fall of 1997.
The annual meeting, to be held in out-of-the-way Wilkes Barre, Pa., two hours north of Philadelphia, is expected to be a quiet affair, with only three items on the agenda: the shareholder vote, and election of directors and auditors.
Wilkes Barre was chosen because it was the hometown of William McGowan, the legendary founder and former chairman of MCI, who died in June 1992.  
In his speech to shareholders Wednesday, Bert Roberts, MCI's current chairman and chief executive, is expected to focus on the projected benefits of its merger, which would create one of the world's first global communications carriers.
One industry analyst briefed by the company said he expected Roberts to reveal some of the early products and services that may result from its ties to British Telecom.
Among the possible offerings would be seamless services connecting the United States and Britain, including wireless phone transmission, faxing, electronic mail, voice mail and the Internet, the analyst said.  
Industry analysts believe the MCI official will also respond to AT&amp;T Corp's initiative to offer local phone service using a fixed wireless system attached to the side of a customer's premises as a means of bypassing local networks controlled by regional Bell companies.
Through interconnection pacts and the new wireless technology, AT&amp;T has said by 1998 it plans to offer local service to the vast majority of the U.S. population.  
MCI made an early move into local phone markets with its MCI Metro unit but has appeared less aggressive than its rivals since the passage of the U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 in evolving a strategy to expand its local phone presence.
A key benefit of the merger with cash-rich British Telecom is the financing muscle that MCI can tap as it seeks to slice substantial market share away from the incumbent regional Bell companies in various local service markets.  
MCI provides local service in 20 U.S. metropolitan markets through a mix of company-owned facilities and resale agreements to use other companies' networks. It has said it plans to be in 31 local service markets by the end of 1997.
By contrast, long-distance rivals AT&amp;T and Sprint Corp have each said they are gearing up to compete in the 50 top U.S. metropolitan markets by year-end.
There are three nominees, all British, to the MCI board. They include Sir Peter Bonfield, British Telecom's chief executive and a current MCI board member; Sir Colin Marshall, chairman of the Confederation of British Industry and chairman of British Airways ; and J. Keith Oates, deputy chairman of British retail group Marks and Spencer Plc.
Sources close to the company said they expected a favorable vote at the meeting, due in part to the substantial 20 percent stake that British Telecom already owns of MCI and the lack of opposition to the merger among other shareholders.
The MCI vote will be followed April 15 by an extraordinary general meeting of British Telecom shareholders to be held at Wembley Stadium in London.
Shareholders of MCI Communications Corp. are expected to vote overwhelmingly in favour of the proposed merger with British Telecommunications Plc at MCI's annual shareholder meeting Wednesday.
The shareholder vote is one of the first major milestones on the road to winning approval for the $23 billion trans-Atlantic merger, which would create a combined company known as Concert Plc with $40.6 billion in revenues.
The merger awaits regulatory approvals in Washington, London and Brussels, the headquarters of the European Union. Company officials are confident the merger -- announced in November -- is on track to close in the fall of 1997.
The annual meeting, to be held in Wilkes Barre, Pa., two hours north of Philadelphia, is expected to be a quiet affair, with only three items on the agenda -- the shareholder vote, and election of directors and auditors.
Wilkes Barre was chosen because it was the hometown of William McGowan, the legendary founder and former chairman of MCI, who died in June 1992. Washington-based MCI is the nation's second largest long distance company.
In his speech to shareholders Wednesday, Bert Roberts, MCI's current chairman and chief executive, is expected to focus on the projected benefits of its merger, which creates one of the world's first global communications carriers.
One industry analyst briefed by the company said he expected Roberts to reveal some of the early products and services that may result from its ties to British Telecom.
Among the possible offerings would be seamless services connecting the United States and Britain, including wireless phone transmission, faxing, electronic mail, voice mail and the Internet, the analyst said.
Industry analysts believe the MCI official will also respond to AT&amp;T Corp.'s initiative to offer local phone service using a fixed wireless system attached to the side of a customer's premises as a means of bypassing local networks controlled by regional Bell companies.
Through interconnection pacts and the new wireless technology, AT&amp;T has said by 1998 it plans to offer local service to the vast majority of the U.S. population.
MCI made an early move into local phone markets with its MCI Metro unit, but has appeared less aggresive than its peers since the passage of the U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 in evolving a strategy to expand its local phone presence.
A key benefit of the merger with cash-rich British Telecom is the financing muscle that MCI can tap as MCI seeks to slice substantial market share away from the incumbent regional Bell telephone companies in various local service markets.
MCI provides local service in 20 U.S. metropolitan markets through a mix of company-owned facilities and resale agreements to use other companies' networks. It has said it plans to be in 31 local service markets by the end of 1997.
The stock of International Business Machines Corp. fell in heavy trading on Thursday, hit by renewed fears about its first-quarter earnings after a published report focused on recent analysts' estimate cuts.
The sell-off fuelled the overall stock market's fourth sharp sell-off in five days as investors were already scared that Friday's March employment report, if robust, could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again soon.
IBM fell as low as $128.875 before ending down $2.375 at $131.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the third most-active issue on volume of 4.6 million shares.
IBM shares began their tumble in London, where investors first read a Wall Street Journal article that said analysts may not be through cutting IBM's earnings estimates.
The report talked about a recent spate of analysts' estimate cuts, citing fears that a stronger dollar and a mainframe product transition will hurt IBM's first-quarter earnings, due April 23, and depress the stock even further. A strong dollar makes sales overseas worth less in dollar terms.
As previously reported, two weeks ago three Wall Street firms made negative comments and two lowered their estimates on IBM, fuelling a drop in IBM's shares in late March.
The report, which appeared as a "Heard on the Street" column in Thursday's Journal, also dredged up an almost two-week old rumour that IBM was going to pre-announce that its earnings would come in below analysts' estimates.
"The Wall Street Journal article today is a summation of old news," said John Jones of Salomon Brothers. "We talked to IBM today and they have no plans for a pre-announcement."
One trader said of the newspaper article: "They are a bit late to the party here."
"I heard the rumour but I wouldn't put any credence to it," said another trader.
An IBM spokesman declined to comment on the quarter.
As previously reported, on March 21, Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich cut IBM's 1997 earnings estimate to $12.30 a share from $12.50. For all of 1996, IBM earned $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share.
On March 20, Dean Witter Reynolds analyst Jay Stevens lowered his first-half earnings estimates for IBM, saying customers might hold off purchases of mainframes until an anticipated upgrade. Some analysts are expecting initial shipments in June.
Stevens added to his estimates for the second half of the year, however, saying the year would be more back-end loaded, as customers make purchases in the second half of the year.
Also in March, Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Mandresh said it would be tough for IBM's first-quarter earnings, which it estimated at $2.32 a share, to compare to the year-ago period's. The analysts' consensus estimate is $2.31 a share for the first quarter, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
For the first quarter of 1996, IBM posted earnings of $1.4 billion, or $2.48 a share, excluding charges associated with software acquisitions and other special items.
Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial analyst, said he is maintaining his first-quarter earnings estimate of $2.32 a share, which he has had since February.
"It's going to be tough to make that number and I doubt that they can overachieve it," Helmig said. But he added that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed drastically since February, so he sees nothing new to affect his estimates.
The IBM drop caused the Dow Jones industrial average to lose 39.66 points to end at 6,477.35 after an initial plunge of more than 80 points.
The stock of International Business Machines Corp fell in heavy trading on Thursday, hit by renewed fears about its first-quarter earnings after a published report focused on recent analysts' estimate cuts.
The sell-off fueled the overall stock market's fourth sharp sell-off in five days as investors were already scared that Friday's March employment report, if robust, could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again soon.
IBM fell as low as $128.875 before ending down $2.375 at $131.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the third most-active issue on volume of 4.6 million shares.
IBM shares began their tumble in London, where investors first read a Wall Street Journal article that said analysts may not be through cutting IBM's earnings estimates.
The report talked about a recent spate of analysts' estimate cuts, citing fears that a stronger dollar and a mainframe product transition will hurt IBM's first-quarter earnings, due April 23, and depress the stock even further. A strong dollar makes sales overseas worth less in dollar terms.
As previously reported, two weeks ago three Wall Street firms made negative comments and two lowered their estimates on IBM, fueling a drop in IBM's shares in late March.
The report, which appeared as a "Heard on the Street" column in Thursday's Journal, also dredged up an almost two-week old rumor that IBM was going to pre-announce that its earnings would come in below analysts' estimates.
"The Wall Street Journal article today is a summation of old news," said John Jones of Salomon Brothers. "We talked to IBM today and they have no plans for a pre-announcement."
One trader said of the newspaper article: "They are a bit late to the party here."
"I heard the rumor but I wouldn't put any credence to it," said another trader.
An IBM spokesman declined to comment on the quarter.
As previously reported, on March 21, Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich cut IBM's 1997 earnings estimate to $12.30 a share from $12.50. For all of 1996, IBM earned $5.4 billion, or $10.24 a share.
On March 20, Dean Witter Reynolds analyst Jay Stevens lowered his first-half earnings estimates for IBM, saying customers might hold off purchases of mainframes until an anticipated upgrade. Some analysts are expecting initial shipments in June.
Stevens added to his estimates for the second half of the year, however, saying the year would be more back-end loaded, as customers make purchases in the second half of the year.
Also in March, Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Mandresh said it would be tough for IBM's first-quarter earnings, which it estimated at $2.32 a share, to compare to the year-ago period's. The analysts' consensus estimate is $2.31 a share for the first quarter, according to First Call, which tracks estimates.
For the first quarter of 1996, IBM posted earnings of $1.4 billion, or $2.48 a share, excluding charges associated with software acquisitions and other special items.
Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial analyst, said he is maintaining his first-quarter earnings estimate of $2.32 a share, which he has had since February.
"It's going to be tough to make that number and I doubt that they can overachieve it," Helmig said. But he added that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed drastically since February, so he sees nothing new to affect his estimates.
The IBM drop caused the Dow Jones industrial average to lose 39.66 points to end at 6,477.35 after an initial plunge of more than 80 points.
Britain's United Assurance Group, created by the merger of Refuge and United Friendly last October, said on Thursday 2,200 jobs would be lost as a result of integration, some 400 more than had been originally expected.
The company, Britain's fourth largest home services insurer -- selling through agents who visit customers homes, said last August that it expected around a quarter of the group's 7,100 employees would lose their jobs.
United is planning to close over half its offices in an effort to cut costs by around 37 million pounds ($60 million) a year.
Group chief executive George Mack said that the opportunities to make cost savings and achieve economies of scale were essential in enabling it to compete in its chosen businesses.
The rationalisation and integration will involve an eventual reduction in the group's regional and branch offices to 116 from 279.
United has set aside 76.3 million pounds for the expected integration costs.
The new structure would enable greater emphasis to be placed on clients' needs, the company said.
Mack declined to rule out further job losses but told Reuters that any reductions were unlikely to be material in the near term.
"We are looking to make sure we're lean and efficient in our back offices and strong and expanding on our sales force front... if anything we're looking to expand our sales force," he said.
The group has yet to get a response from the Department of Trade and Industry to its proposals that the costs for the restructuring be borne by shareholders. Under its plans shareholders would receive a greater return for taking on the additional risk.
The news of the lay-offs cames as the merged group announced pre-tax profits of 549.3 million pounds for 1996, which included 430 million pounds from the transfer of 'orphan assets' -- surplus insurance funds -- to shareholders.
United shares rose on the figures, adding 11-1/2 pence to 485-1/2.
Excluding net exceptional items of 371.3 million pounds, profits from continuing operations were up 18 percent at 193.5 million pounds.
The dividend for the year was raised 35 percent to 18 pence per share.
Run-off costs from the closure of the group's motor business to new business in 1996 had been higher than expected with the pre-tax loss of 15.5 million pounds reflecting the effect of an adverse increase in the number of claims and value of settlements.
Efforts would now be concentrated on the household busines which United said offered "great potential" to the enlarged group.
"We've had a less good year this year than last. Market conditions have been less favourable but we believe we have a strong product range and sound account and with the client base of the combined group we expect to be vigorous in expanding our portfolio," said Mack.
Provisions chargeable for the 11,000 cases of possible mis-selling of pensions by the group, remained broadly unchanged at 71 million pounds.
"We will have a clear idea of the level at which we're settling at the end of 1997 but we believe we're appropriately provided for at the moment. Until we have specific settlememnt experience there is some uncertainty in the size of that provision," Mack said.
Britain on Friday launched a new watchdog for the country's 200,000 occupational pension schemes.
Called the Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority (OPRA), the body was set up in the wake of the pension scandal surrounding publishing mogul the late Robert Maxwell.
The independent watchdog, which will be based in Brighton on the English south coast and starts operations on Monday, was established under the Pensions Act 1995 drawn up in the wake of the Maxwell pensions scandal of 1991.
The new act comes into force on April 6 and the reforms are designed to reinforce the most important parts of existing British pensions law.
OPRA chief executive Caroline Johnston said it would be naive to say that one could guarantee that there could not be a recurrence of the Maxwell situation when more than 400 million pounds ($655 million) went missing, but she expressed confidence that it would be "much less likely" in the future.
OPRA will ensure that occupational schemes, which control some 500 billion pounds of assets, abide by the new rules and are adequately funded to cover members' pensions.
Its remit is to see that the interests of Britain's 12 million members of company pension schemes are protected and that occupational pension schemes comply with the law.
It will have powers to investigate suspected breaches of the law and take legal, disciplinary or regulatory action against employers or trustees where breaches are found.
Under the Pensions Act legislation, it will have the power to investigate trustees, search company offices and seize documents.
Actuaries and auditors will be under a new statutory duty to report clients if they find rules being breached.
In the event of any wrongdoing, OPRA will be able to fine trustees, remove them from their posts, disqualify them and, if necessary, replace them with their own nominees.
It can also wind up schemes and apply for injunctions to prevent the misuse of pension scheme assets.
OPRA chairman John Hayes promised the body would take a pragmatic approach and did not necessarily expect schemes to be in a position to comply with every aspect of the new Pensions Act from day one.
"We will deal with cases on merit...and be sensitive but tough," Hayes said.
And while it plans to make use of publicity to encourage compliance, OPRA says it will not be heavy handed with small-mistakes that do not involve dishonesty or a deliberate ignoring of the rules.
The new regime will rely heavily on tip-offs and has set up a hotline to enable employees and pensioners to pass on information -- anonymously if they wish.
($ = 0.609 British Pounds)
China marked on Saturday the first "tombsweeping" day since the death of Deng Xiaoping with few outward signs of remembrance for the late paramount leader.
Thousands of Beijing residents streamed through the gates of Babaoshan cemetery for the Qingming festival, traditionally the day for tidying ancestral graves.
But for the most part this was a family occasion, far removed from the political limelight that surrounded Deng during his lifetime.
"I have come here every year since my husband died in 1991," said a Beijing resident, holding the hand of her granddaughter as they left the cemetery.
"This is a family matter. There is no connection with any political leaders."
A group of students from Deng's native province of Sichuan, all of them enrolled at a university in the Chinese capital, gathered at the cemetery gates. They too had a private reason for being there.
"We are helping a friend sweep his father's grave," said one of the students.
Deng died on February 19 aged 92. He was cremated at Babaoshan and his ashes scattered at sea in accordance with his wishes.
That has left the public with no specific place to honour the man who steered China away from the radical policies of Mao Zedong and onto the path of economic development, even if it meant adopting capitalist ways.
Those pragmatic policies raised living standards and turned a backward Stalinist state into an economic powerhouse.
Beijing's central Tiananmen Square has been one such place to honour the nation's fallen heroes but public displays of respect were not encouraged on this day.
Early on Saturday, as a group of secondary students walked towards the shrine to martyrs of the revolution at the centre of the square, they were quickly approached by security men.
After a brief discussion, they were allowed to bow and then told to leave, witnesses said.
China's communist leaders have traditionally planted trees on the Qingming festival and that was how the official media chose to remember Deng.
The People's Daily, the Communist Party newspaper, showed photographs of Deng planting trees over the years since 1979, when he began his programme of reforms that changed China's political landscape.
"Now these trees have grown tall," said the newspaper.
In the spirit of Deng's reforms, vendors of silk flowers were doing brisk business outside the Babaoshan cemetery.
Visitors queued up to buy wreaths similar to those that adorned grave sites inside.
Deng was in the thoughts of other Beijing residents, such as Bai Lansheng, a sculptor who is working on a bronze statue of the late leader.
"We are getting ready to ship the plaster mould to Shanghai now," he said from his Beijing workshop. "There it will be cast in bronze."
In June the six-metre (20-foot) statue will be shipped to the southern city of Shenzhen, which borders the British colony of Hong Kong.
Deng directed negotiations that led to the 1984 Sino-British accord under which the territory reverts to Chinese sovereignty on July 1.
Deng died before the colony's recovery but his statue will gaze across the border and "witness" the historic event.
Equitas, created to run off Lloyd's of London's huge pre-1993 losses, on Monday received -- as expected -- only a qualified opinion on its first set of accounts.
The development underlined the difficulties Equitas faces in unwinding 10.4 billion pounds ($17 billion) of liabilities which had threatened to destroy the Lloyd's market.
Equitas chairman David Newbigging described its initial five months of operation as a case of "so far, so good" as the company released first details of its financial position since it was given the green light last September.
But auditors Coopers &amp; Lybrand cited 'significant uncertainties' about the accuracy of provisions relating to claims outstanding, reinsurers' share of those and reinsurance recoveries.
Claims experience was likely to differ from estimated liability, potentially to a 'material degree', it said, warning that if adjustments were necessary they could wipe out shareholders funds of 588 million pounds.
That threat was well flagged in the Lloyd's settlement offer document last year, however, and the company expressed little surprise at the position taken by the auditors.
"Obviously no company likes to see an audit qualification... There are fundamental uncertainties associated with the type of liability we've got and I think we'll have some mention of it in audit qualifications -- probably forever," said Equitas finance director Jane Barker.
However, she said the group would be looking to remove another problem highlighted by Coopers, that of data quality, as quickly as possible.
While it would continue to be a feature of Equitas' first trading period through March 1997, the objective is to remove or substantially reduce it by March 1998.
Equitas was formed to allow a line to be drawn under Lloyd's near-disastrous pre-1993 losses.
Its creation was a central plank in Lloyd's 'Reconstruction and Renewal' (R&amp;R) plan, freeing Names from their exposure to the eight billion pounds of losses accumulated between 1988 and 1992.
The payment of claims and expenses by syndicates last year had reduced Equitas' reinsurance premium to 11.2 billion pounds by the time it began operating in September, down from a figure set at 14.7 billion pounds based on year-end 1995 figures.
The company said that by September the group had assets totalling 16 billion pounds and net claims reserves of 10.5 billion pounds.
But the surplus between the Equitas premium and the value of discounted liabilities had been reduced from the projected surplus of 880 million pounds as at year-end 1995 to 588 million pounds in September.
Newbigging said Equitas had two clearly defined objectives -- to secure true finality for reinsured Names -- individuals with unlimited liability who traditionally supported Lloyd's -- and to create a sufficient surplus to enable some return of the premium to them but that neither of these targets would be easy.
However, there had been no major surprises so far, he said, and the position of the group today was "much as we anticipated at the time we became operational".
The company expects total group liabilities to halve over the next three or four years but asbestos, pollution and health claims, all long-tail and notoriously difficult to assess, make up some 40 percent of Equitas' discounted liabilities and are expected to take up to 40 years to run-off.
While any surplus over eventual liabilities, can be returned to Names, that was unlikely to occur within the next three, four or five years according to Newbigging. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
The CITIC Industrial Bank, financial arm of China's CITIC conglomerate, said on Monday it expected solid profit growth this year despite mounting competition and a key goal of limiting risk.
"Stable development is more important than a big profit rise," said Zhang Jian, deputy general manager and economist.
The bank has set a target of pre-tax profits of at least 1.8 billion yuan ($217 million) this year compared with 1.58 billion in 1996 and 1.01 billion in 1995.
The bank is a major profit contributor to the China International Trust and Development Corp, or CITIC, which has interests from telecommunications to real estate and manufacturing. The CITIC group announced overall earnings of 2.478 billion yuan last year.
China's economic tsar Vice-Premier Zhu Rongji has pushed for more discipline in the financial sector, particularly following the failure in January of the China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment Corp. That sent shock waves through the financial community, and Zhu has warned that state banks overall need to cut bad debt by two percent annually over the next five years.
CITIC Industrial Bank has been one of the stronger players in the financial sector, however.
Unlike the main state-run commercial banks, it does not have to make loans to aid government policy, regardless of whether the borrower can repay.
But Zhang said top management at the bank was focusing on tightening risk controls.
"Enhancing (asset) quality and the assessment of risk" were two key goals for the bank this year, he said in an interview.
CITIC's customers for the most part were profitable state industrial companies and government corporations engaged in foreign trade. Most of the bank's loans were short term, usually for less than 180 days, Zhang said.
That has made it difficult for the bank to move into new areas of business such as home mortgages or car financing, two areas where China is likely to see substantial growth in the years ahead.
CITIC is also facing an increasingly crowded banking sector as new domestic banks emerge and more foreign banks enter the local market.
Zhang said CITIC had begun private banking operations at its branch in the southern city of Guangzhou to try to expand business.
It is experimenting with ways to boost service to its big corporate clients, such as extending banking hours and installing computers at customer offices and linking them to its own network to make banking easier.
CITIC had total assets of 108 billion yuan at the end of last year compared with 86 billion at the end of 1995.
Deposits reached 87 billion yuan last year, up from 67 billion in 1995, despite two reductions in domestic interest rates by the central bank last year.
Zhang said he believed further cuts in interest rates would make it difficult for the nation's banks to attract deposits.
"I don't think there can be another interest rate cut this year," he said. "If you want investment, you need savings to support it."
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Lloyd's of London received a much needed vote of confidence on Tuesday with news that British insurance giant Commercial Union was taking a role in the Lloyd's insurance market.
CU acquired a majority stake in managing agent Marlborough Underwriting Agency Limited, responsible for running syndicates which form the basis of Lloyd's. The move represents the first active participation by a major composite insurer in Lloyd's.
But it may also signal another nail in the coffin for Names - individuals with unlimited liability who have traditionally backed the insurance market.
The news comes just one day after a qualified set of first accounts left question-marks hanging over the long-term prospects of Equitas, the company set up last year to run-off Lloyd's near-disastrous pre-1993 liabilities.
The shape of Lloyd's has been changing rapidly since more than eight billion pounds ($13 billion) of losses between 1988 and 1992 threatened to sink the market and ushered in corporate capital with limited liability to Lloyd's three years ago.
Corporate capital now accounts for around 44 percent of the market's 10.3 billion pound capacity while the number of Names has shrunk to below 10,000 for the first time since the mid-70s.
In 1989, Names numbered over 34,000.
Since their introduction, corporate investors have been strengthening ties with agents, which manage the underwriting syndicates of both limited and unlimited Names at Lloyd's.
The developments have raised questions over Names' long-term future in Lloyd's and some forecast the share of corporate capacity to rise to two-thirds or more by the turn of the century.
There are fears that this increase could damage the entrepreneurial spirit and scope of insurance cover offered which supporters say have given it the market its pre-eminent position and ability to meet policyholders' claims.
The attraction for managing agents is the security of capital offered by corporate investors.
"A managing agent doesn't want to have capacity dropping off his syndicates. He wants long term syndicate participation," said one industry analyst.
Names only back their syndicates for one year at a time, at which point they can decide whether to renew or not.
Much simpler, say some, would be to abandon Names and annual renewal for permanent capital provided by corporate capital.
Sir David Berriman, chairman of the Association of Lloyd's Members (ALM) which represents around over 8,000 Names said today's move represented another shift in the ownership and control of Lloyd's and arguably further eroded the rights of Lloyd's traditional Names.
Angerstein investment Trust, one of the largest corporate investors in Lloyd's has repeatedly stated its intention to look for opportunities to expand its interest in managing agents.
Already this year it has completed the purchase of managing agencies Mumford and Coffey, quickly followed by the acquisition of members' agency Stace Barr Wellington.
U.S. companies have also been at the forefront of such moves with firms such as Ace Ltd, Capital Re and Chartwell Re all purchasing managing agents outright.
Others have gone for minority shareholdings
Angus Sladen, managing director of Marlborough said the company had been impressed by CU's conviction that the revitalised Lloyd's had a bright future.
He said that CU's financial strength and experience of the London and international market would enable it to "seize the opportunities available to Lloyd's" in the wake of its 'Reconstruction and Renewal' plan implemented last year.
CU is paying the Blenheim Partnership an initial 2.9 million pounds in cash for the Marlborough stake with a further payment of up to 2.9 million, half of which is dependent on capacity levels.
It said it intended to develop the business from its current capacity of around 80 million pounds, building up its own capacity on Marlborough syndicates, at the same time as encouraging the presence of existing individual Names and other capacity providers. ($ = 0.614 British Pounds)
The long-term prospects for Lloyd's reinsurance vehicle Equitas, an integral part of the recovery plans of the world's oldest insurance market, remain uncertain after a qualified set of first accounts.
A four-page report from auditors Coopers &amp; Lybrand spoke of "significant uncertainties" about the level of claims against Equitas, set up to run-off Lloyd's huge pre-1993 losses, warning that the company could well be pushed into insolvency.
It says much about the unusual nature of the company that management took a relatively sanguine view of the audit.
Since its creation last year, the board have been careful to stress the doubts that underlie the success or failure of the project.
It is just too early to say what the eventual liabilities of the company are and whether it is adequately funded to cover them, analysts say.
The accounts showed that in the eight months leading up to the start of operations on September 4, the surplus of assets to liabilities was reduced by 122 million pounds ($198.4 million) because of further provisions for syndicate assets transferred to Equitas.
But management has also kept its cards close to its chest, leaving industry observers none the wiser about the prospects for the group.
Around 40 percent of Equitas' 10.4 billion pounds of discounted liabilities are for asbestos, pollution and health claims.
All are notoriously difficult to assess and many years are likely to pass before the full exposure becomes clear.
The auditors have also been denied access to some information on claims which are the subject of actual or potential litigation because of the risk of breaches of legal privilege.
"It's very early days... and putting myself in the position of an auditor, I would certainly be very cautious about giving an unqualified opinion," said one industry analyst.
"On a more positive note they haven't come out with a complete condemnation and that has got to be reasonable news."
Compounding the difficulties, question marks hang over much of the data on which the assumption of liabilities have been calculated, a point not lost on Coopers.
Equitas has had, by necessity, to rely on unaudited work from Lloyd's own reserving project, involving in Coopers words "the use of many assumptions which have a significant effect on the quantification of the provisions for claims".
The company has committed itself to resolving this issue as quickly as possible and hopes to solve it by March 1998. Whether that turns up some unexpected surprises may go a long way to indicating the long term success of Equitas.
If it does come unstuck its first option is to trigger the "proportionate cover" clause which allows it to pay claims at a reduced rate.
Were it to fail completely, Names could yet find themselves asked to dip their hands back into their pockets.
In the words of Sir David Berriman, chairman of the Association of Lloyd's Members which represents over 8,000 Lloyd's Names, they "need as much reassurance as they can get and heavily qualified accounts do nothing to help".
($ = 0.614 British Pounds)
China called on Japan on Thursday to stop encouraging right-wing activities on disputed South China Sea islands or risk an escalation of the diplomatic row.
However, it stopped short of spelling out what action it would take over the islands -- claimed by Beijing, Tokyo and Taipei -- adding that it would exercise restraint.
"Japan should recognise the seriousness of the matter and take actions to stop these...illegal activities," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told a regular news briefing.
"If Japan continues to encourage them the situation will be even more serious," he said of the right-wing activists. "The ball is in Japan's court."
A long-dormant dispute over the islands, called the Diaoyus in Chinese and the Senkakus by Japan, erupted in July after the right-wing Japan Youth Federation erected a lighthouse on one of the islets.
Friction mounted earlier this month after Japanese coast-guard ships barred private Taiwan boats from reaching the area while the rightist group repaired the typhoon-damaged structure.
Beijing and Taipei have assailed Japan's protection of the rightists' activities and ordered Tokyo to keep people away from the islands that lie east of China's southeastern Fujian coast, west of Japan's Okinawa island and northeast of Taiwan.
Chinese in the British colony of Hong Kong have also closed ranks, ignoring other political disputes and voicing support for Beijing's claim to the islands.
On Tuesday, Beijing lodged a strong protest with Tokyo and called in the charge d'affaires in Beijing, warning of serious damage to ties if Japan failed to stop right-wingers from setting foot on the islands.
Asked by reporters whether Beijing would consider stronger measures, Shen said: "We hope this issue will be handled with restraint."
Japan on Thursday urged China, Taiwan and Hong Kong to deal calmly with the territorial dispute.
A group of more than 100 Chinese nationalists on Wednesday urged China's top military brass to send warships to the disputed Diaoyu islands to tear down structures built by Japanese rightists.
The response of China's military commission, which is headed by Communist Party chief and state president Jiang Zemin, was not immediately available.
Hong Kong activists, members of the pro-democracy Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood, were in Beijing to present to Chinese authorities a petition signed by 17,000 people urging the government to get tough on Japan's claim to the islands.
In Taiwan on Thursday, fishermen hurled rotten fish at Japan's Taipei visa office in protest over Tokyo's actions in the dispute.
Britain's largest life insurance group Prudential Corp said on Wednesday it is to increase its exposure to the top end of the personal financial services market by taking a near 30 percent stake in St James's Place Capital.
The move coincides with news that St James' is seeking to buy the 49 percent of life insurer J. Rothschild Assurance (JRA) it does not already own and comes hot on the heels of the Pru's purchase of mutual insurer Scottish Amicable two weeks ago.
It is the attraction of JRA, set up by St James's co-founder Sir Mark Weinberg in 1992, and its upmarket clientele which lies behind the Pru's interest in St James's.
JRA targets high net-worth individuals, managing some 1.7 billion pounds ($2.8 billion) for its near 200,000 policyholders.
In 1996, the company announced a 41 percent growth in new business, among the highest in the industry.
Despite assurances from the Pru that it would respect JRA's wishes to stay independent, any future takeover of it or St.James would represent a neat hat-trick for Weinberg.
In the 1960s he founded insurance firm Abbey Life, which he later sold to Lloyds Bank. He then set up Allied Dunbar, eventually selling that to B.A.T Industries.
However, the Pru has agreed not to increase its holding in St James's for at least a year, unless the company attracts a bid from a third party.
That undertaking was described as "fundamental" to the deal by Mike Wilson chief executive of JRA.
The Pru will pay around 39.6 million pounds for 30.5 million St James's shares, to add to the 10.4 million shares it already owns.
Scottish Amicable holds approximately 20 percent of JRA which after conversion into St James shares will give the Pru control of 118.8 million shares or 29.9 percent.
"Something had to happen to sort out the interest the Pru acquired through ScotAm. This looks an elegant intermediate step but may not be the final solution," said one industry analyst.
The move gave the Pru strategic options, he said and a purchase of JRA further down the line would not conflict with its existing Prudential or Scottish Amicable brands.
"The value would be in keeping it separate. It's a fairly unique organisation and the Pru's chief executive Peter Davis has said in the past that there's nothing wrong with operating separate brands."
St James said it believed the plans would enable JRA to achieve more rapid growth through improved incentives for the sales force and a simplification of the management structure.
Plans to float JRA on the stock market, possibly as early as this summer, have been shelved.
Wilson said today's proposals would result in the same benefits for shareholders but at an earlier stage than would otherwise have been possible.
JRA contributed 11 million pounds towards St James' after tax profits from continuing operations of 25.1 million pounds in the nine months to December 31, 1996, up from 5.5 million pounds for the whole of the previous year.
St James said it believed JRA, with its high quality, focused distribution and strong brand name was well placed to take advantage of current developments in the industry.
Lord Rothschild who co-founded St James's with Weinberg, sold half his family's stake for 13.8 million pounds last October following his decision to step down as joint chairman after the group's reconstruction in the summer.
St James's also owns Life Assurance Holding Corp which specialises in the acquisition and management of closed life assurance policies and Global Asset Management, a specialist fund management company. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
The prospect of a shake-up at Sedgwick Group looked possible on Wednesday after news that a U.S. fund manager known for his aggressive attitude to underperforming companies had taken a sizeable stake in the insurance broker.
Chicago-based David Herro, instrumental two years ago in ousting Maurice Saatchi as chairman of the advertising group Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, since renamed Cordiant, now owns over three percent of Sedgwick through his mutual fund, Oakmark International.
A spokeswoman for Sedgwick said it had held several meetings with Herro as part of its normal programme of contacts with institutional investors, but declined further comment.
Herro led a shareholders revolt against Saatchi in a battle over boardroom pay in 1994.
Saatchi left the firm he founded with his brother, but took some of the group's leading clients with him.
Shares in Sedgwick, which has made no secret of its  desire to take part in the quickening consolidation in the insurance broking sector, rose three pence to 127.5 pence.
The shares have rebounded from a year's low of 113 pence only last week, a gain of nearly 13 percent.
Herro's shareholding may signal renewed pressure on the company to do something following the poor performance of the shares in recent years.
They have fallen nearly 40 percent since the beginning of 1992, compared with a 71 percent advance in Britain's leading shares over the same period.
A demand for action could come in three weeks time at the group's annual meeting on April 24.
There are fears that Sedgwick may have missed the boat after a stream of mergers and takeovers among rival firms.
Just last month Marsh &amp; Mclennan announced a $1.8 billion merger with Johnson &amp; Higgins to form the world's largest broker.
The $1.2 billion merger of Aon and Alexander &amp; Alexander in the U.S. last December, followed swiftly on the heels of Aon's purchase of Bain Hogg from Inchcape. JIB Group and Lloyd Thompson merged at the end of last year to form Jardine Lloyd Thompson.
This has left Britains's two largest brokers, Sedgwick and Willis Corroon somewhat stranded and has raised the prospect of the two being pushed into each others arms as the only solution to their current difficulties.
Willis has always brushed off suggestions it may be interested in teaming up with its British rival.
But Sedgwick chairman Sax Riley, until recently group chief executive, has repeatedly refused to rule out a merger.
After the results in February which saw a five percent rise in pre-tax profits to 95.5 million pounds ($155.2 million) Riley said the group continued to look at opportunities in the sector and predicted a second round of consolidation was about to begin in the industry.
The attraction of mergers are the huge cost savings firms can strip out. Marsh &amp; Mclennan predicted annual cost savings of at least $150 million following its March deal.
However, mergers also raise potentially big  difficulties in marrying often very different corporate cultures and the risks of damage to staff morale or loss of key personnel have to be weighed carefully.
But insurance broking is suffering from overcapacity and stagnant or declining commissions. Insurance premiums, the basis for commissions, have slumped in the past decade.
There has also been a trend of companies taking on more risk themselves and paying fees for risk management advice rather than commission for broking. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
China has scored new successes in its fight against inflation and economists said on Friday that price rises this year could be well below target.
Some economists say inflation had been squeezed out of the economy with only a modest impact on growth as economic expansion continued at a fairly rapid pace.
"This is better than expected," said Chen Dezun, head of the price research institute of the State Planning Commission.
"We could see inflation of between three and four percent this year," he told Reuters.
The benchmark retail price index rose a meagre 1.7 percent in March and 2.6 percent for the first quarter of the year, the State Statistical Bureau said on Thursday.
China forecast a 6.0 percent rise in retail prices this year after a 6.1 percent increase last year. That was already well below the 14.8 percent recorded in 1995 and a communist-era high of 21.7 percent in 1994.
China's economic growth is expected to top 10 percent this year after a solid 9.7 percent in 1996.
The inflation figure for the first quarter was also below an estimate by Premier Li Peng this week that retail price inflation would average 3.0 percent in the January-March period.
Chen said good weather had been a factor, ensuring steady supplies of agricultural goods and keeping prices down.
What China officially refers to as "appropriately tight" monetary policies had also been a crucial factor, he said.
"The appropriately tight monetary policies are now showing results," he said.
China has kept controls on fixed asset investment, keeping government spending down, and that has kept a cap on the demand for goods such as construction materials.
After adjusting for inflation, the real rise in fixed asset investment last year was a fairly modest 11.5 percent.
"The key has been control over fixed asset investment," said Zhong Jiyun, an economist at the state think tank, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Some economists have argued that with the battle against inflation proceeding favourably, China can now afford to ease its monetary policies.
Many inefficient state-run enterprises are swimming in red ink and saddled with debt they cannot repay.
Managers of these companies and their local government officials have called for easier credit to help to reduce their heavy financial burden.
But Zhong is among the economists who believe that China is not yet able to declare the war on inflation over.
"I believe we still need to keep the controls on," he said.
China has scored new successes in its fight against inflation and economists said on Friday that price rises this year could be well below target.
Some economists say inflation has been squeezed out of the economy with only a modest impact on growth as economic expansion continued at a fairly rapid pace.
"This is better than expected," said Chen Dezun, head of the price research institute of the State Planning Commission.
"We could see inflation of between three and four percent this year," he told Reuters. The benchmark retail price index rose a meagre 1.7 percent in March and 2.6 percent for the first quarter of the year, the State Statistical Bureau said on Thursday.
China forecast a 6.0 percent rise in retail prices this year after a 6.1 percent increase last year. That was already well below the 14.8 percent recorded in 1995 and a communist-era high of 21.7 percent in 1994.
China's economic growth is expected to top 10 percent this year after a solid 9.7 percent in 1996.
The inflation figure for the first quarter was also below an estimate by Premier Li Peng this week that retail price inflation would average 3.0 percent in the January-March period.
Chen said good weather had been a factor, ensuring steady supplies of agricultural goods and keeping prices down.
What China officially refers to as "appropriately tight" monetary policies had also been a crucial factor, he said.
"The appropriately tight monetary policies are now showing results," he said.
China has kept controls on fixed asset investment, keeping government spending down, and that has kept a cap on the demand for goods such as construction materials.
After adjusting for inflation, the real rise in fixed asset investment last year was a fairly modest 11.5 percent.
"The key has been control over fixed asset investment," said Zhong Jiyun, an economist at the state think tank, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Some economists have argued that with the battle against inflation proceeding favourably, China can now afford to ease its monetary policies.
Many inefficient state-run enterprises are swimming in red ink and saddled with debt they cannot repay.
Managers of these companies and their local government officials have called for easier credit to help to reduce their heavy financial burden.
But Zhong is among the economists who believe that China is not yet able to declare the war on inflation over.
"I believe we still need to keep the controls on," he said.
A vehicle to reinsure so-called 'orphan syndicates' could free thousands of Lloyd's of London Names currently trapped in the insurance market according to plans published on Tuesday.
John Rew, co-founder of publisher and market analyst Chatset, has invited Names - the traditional backers of Lloyd's - to fund a feasibility study on whether a Name-owned company could be floated to re-insure orphan syndicates.
Rew, is seeking to raise 600,000 pounds ($972,000), one third of which will be devoted to the study. If successful, a prospectus will be issued to set up the syndicate.
There are around 13,000 Names trapped on more than 50 syndicates for 1993 which are still open because of the uncertainty surrounding eventual liabilities.
Normally the 1993 year would have closed at the end of 1995. Until they do, none of the Names can formally leave Lloyd's.
In order to close a syndicate, Lloyd's requires that the reinsurance be backed by another syndicate. About five Lloyd's syndicates specialise in this market.
Following huge losses run-up by Lloyd's between 1988 and 1992, members of closed syndicates transferred outstanding liabilities to a specially created reinsurance company, Equitas, under a rescue package implemented last year.
But Equitas did not take on orphan syndicates.
Once orphan syndicates have been reinsured, the names' deposit can be released.
In the case of ceased or resigned Names, who may comprise as many as half the 13,000, Lloyd's requires 100 percent of the 'stamp capacity' to be backed by deposit, which Rew estimates could mean up to 450 million pounds trapped within Lloyd's.
($ = 0.616 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London Names -- the traditional backers of Lloyd's insurance market -- will have to dig deep in their pockets in future if as expected a working party set up to assess the market's funding recommends an increase in the minimum amounts Names provide to support their underwriting, insurance sources said.
Lloyd's, still smarting from massive claims suffered by the market between 1988 and 1992, is expected to announce fundamental changes to its capital structure in the next week, the sources said on Wednesday.
According to the sources, the report filed by the working party should be published within the next few days.
At present Names must put up between 20 and 30 percent of their underwriting capacity as deposits, compared with 50 percent for corporate investors.
Under the working party's plans Names may be required to provide at least 32.5 percent next year, and 37.5 percent in the following year, according to a report in Britain's Financial Times newspaper.
One source at Lloyds described the figures as looking "familiar in terms of earlier discusssions here".
The new system would require all investors to show evidence of assets totalling 50 percent of premiums.
The eight billion pound ($13 billion) losses between 1988 and 1992, which have prompted the latest changes and at one point threatened to sink Lloyd's, ushered in the introduction of corporate capital for the first time and a decline in the number of Names to below 10,000 for the first time since the mid-70s.
In 1989, the figure was over 34,000.
Corporate funds now account for around 44 percent of this year's 10.3 billion pound capacity and since their introduction have been strengthening ties with managing agents which run insurance syndicates.
Only last week Commercial Union became the first major composite insurer to enter Lloyd's with the purchase of Marlborough Underwriting Agency.
The developments raise questions about Names' long term future at Lloyd's and some observers expect the share of corporate capacity to rise to two-thirds or more by the turn of the century.
($ = 0.614 British Pounds)
China is on target with plans to to promote 100 large chemical groups by 2000 by tapping a $1.6 billion war chest, Minister of Chemical Industry Gu Xiulian said on Friday.
The industry hoped that 10 of the groups, which are being groomed to compete in the export market, could eventually list their shares either on domestic or foreign stock exchanges, she said.
"Currently, we have 13.6 billion yuan ($1.6 billion) to support development plans," Gu told reporters. "Some of this was made available under the previous five-year plan (1991-1995). All of the money is to support development projects."
China has been trying to promote big companies to give its ailing state sector a more competitive edge.
"One of the problems in the industry is that we've had too much small-scale production which was protected under central planning. But now we have a market economy," Gu said.
The government aimed to build up companies which could each export $10 million worth of chemicals a year. There were now 80 such companies, she added.
Asked about plans to publicly list the firms, Gu did not name any company or group but said the ministry's policy was to support companies ready to go public.
Listing plans would then require approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, China's top securities watchdog.
Chemical companies Tianjin Bohai Chemical Industry (Group) Co Ltd and Jilin Chemical Industry Co Ltd are some of the companies listed in China and abroad.
Gu said some of the state-run chemical companies were among the firms losing money, and that subsidiaries were needed to offset rising raw material costs. She did not mention any companies by name but said chemical fertilisers were one area where subsidiaries were necessary.
Lucent Technologies Inc expects its lagging consumer products unit -- the smallest of four product divsions -- to show substantial profit gains in 1997 and a return to revenue growth by the December quarter.
"We expect a substantial improvement in profitablity this year (for the unit) mainly through cost-cutting," Chief Financial Officer Don Peterson Peterson "and positive revenue growth" in the December quarter, due to new products.  Earlier Thursday, Lucent had said consumer product revenues fell 41 percent in the second quarter ended in March.  
Consumer products comprised a small fraction of total March quarter revenues of $5.15 billion.  It was the only Lucent unit not to see double-digit growth in the quarter.
The division's revenues fell to $174 million in the March quarter due to the impact on sales resulting from the closing in 1996 of hundreds of phone center stores, the streamlining of the product line and reduced revenue from phone rentals.
Revenues from Lucent's carrier network systems division jumped 23.3 percent to $2.93 billion, while the business communications unit rose 14.1 percent to $1.3 billion and semiconductor revenues gained 18.3 percent to $615 million.  
In addition, Peterson told Reuters the company's closely watched backlog of customer equipment orders remained "in the $4 billion range, or about the same level it was in the fiscal first quarter ended in December 1996."
"The backlog was about the same level that we talked about in the prior quarter's conference call," Peterson said.
He said the backlog was replenished by about $600 million in new wireless equipment orders in Taiwan, Brazil, Indonesia, the Philippines and Mexico balancing out the revenue recognized from prior equipment contracts during the quarter.  
The Lucent executive said he expected the company to maintain its gross profit margin as a percentage of revenues at around 42 to 43 percent for the fiscal 1997 year ending in September.
For the March quarter, Lucent reported an overall gross margin of 42.1 percent, down from the 45.9 percent reported in the seasonally strong volume December 1996 quarter but up from the 39.9 percent margin in the year-ago March quarter.
"I don't see margin expansion as a major opportunity, but I do think we can hold onto it if we run the business right," he said of plans to hold margins at 43 percent in fiscal 1997.  
Peterson said international revenues increased 26 percent over the year-ago quarter to $1.26 billion from $1.0 billion.
Because most large equipment contracts are transacted in U.S. dollars, he said the impact of currency translation on Lucent results was immaterial during the latest quarter and was expected to have minimal impact for the rest of the year.
Speaking of plans to pump up consumer product revenues, he said the company plans to introduce a slew of new products including wireless, cordless and corded phones and answering machines to replace older models.  
After a round of profit-taking in the morning that sent Lucent shares down 5/8 of a point, the stock recovered in mid-afternoon trading to 54-7/8, up 1/4 of a point on the day.
((-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736))
The numbers of Names at Lloyd's of London, already at 20-year lows, could fall even further after the insurance market said it would raise the amount of capital they must pledge to back their underwriting activities.
The move, which was announced earlier on Thursday as part of a package of measures to strengthen Lloyd's financial credibility, will fuel fears among the insurance market's traditional backers that Names are being eased out in favour of corporate investors.
But Andrew Duguid, secretary of the Lloyd's council, rejected any suggestion of a hidden agenda and said that the purpose of the proposals was to bolster the market's financial security.
"I don't think it will have a dramatic or abrupt impact on the number of Names. I wouldn't expect many to leave but some may reduce the amount they underwrite," said Duguid.
But he admitted that the balance between the two was likely to shift amid a continued growth in corporate members, who were first introduced in 1993.
There will now also be fewer differences in the way Names and corporate investors are treated.
The number of Names has dwindled since the huge losses which threatened to bankrupt the three hundred year old insurance market between 1988 and 1992.
In contrast, the amount of capital provided by corporate investors has surged to around 44 percent of total capacity.
From a peak of over 34,000 in 1989, there are now fewer than 10,000 Names, the lowest figure since the mid-70s.
Under the scheme, which will come in next year, Names will be required to put up at least 32.5 percent of their underwriting capacity as deposits at Lloyd's. This will rise to 37.5 percent the following year.
At present Names must put up between 20 and 30 percent, compared with 50 percent for corporate investors. But Names will no longer be able to use their homes to guarantee funds deposited at Lloyd's.
Lloyds also plans to introduce a new requirement for Names to show evidence of assets of at least 40 percent of premiums underwritten next year and 50 percent by 1999.
This will be made up of the funds held at Lloyd's and proof of other personal wealth.
Different categories of Names will also disappear and members will annually have to reconfirm the wealth backing their underwriting.
The minimum total of assets required is also to increase to 350,000 pounds ($568,000) by 1999, from its present level of 250,000 pounds.
The proposals, designed to strengthen the so-called "chain of security" at Lloyd's, are recognition that since its reconstruction plans implemented last year, Lloyd's is now subject to far greater scrutiny by policyholders and brokers worldwide.
The  first link in that chain is the premiums trust fund, made up of policyholders premiums, and Lloyd's is to replace its existing investment criteria with a single, more flexible regime.
The aim is to allow managing agents greater  opportunity to achieve better returns while keeping the assets safe.
Actuarial opinions on the adequacy of the reserves held will be compulsory from the 1997 year-end for all syndicates.
In addition, a consistent accounting treatment will be imposed to highlight potential reinsurance bad debts -- a central problem in the near-disastrous losses suffered between 1988 and 1992. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
Bell Atlantic Corp. said Thursday its earnings rose sharply in the first quarter, boosted by growth in its telephone and cellular businesses.
The Philadelphia-based telecommunications company reported first-quarter net income of $515.6 million, an increase of 11.0 percent over the $464.7 million it earned in first quarter of 1996. Earnings per share rose to $1.17 from $1.06, slightly more than the First Call consensus estimate of $1.16.
Operating revenues grew to $3.4 billion from $3.2 billion.
"This was a good solid set of numbers," J.P. Morgan analyst Simon Flannery said of the strong showing in new and second-line growth, wireless business and productivity.
"In spite of investments for new initiatives, they were still able to deliver double-digit earnings growth in the latest quarter," he said.
Bell Atlantic Chairman and Chief Executive Raymond Smith said, "Demand for our services, including data connectivity, wireless and value-added services, continues to drive excellent bottom line performance."
Anticipating a landmark year for the company, Smith said, "We are heading toward the closing of our merger with Nynex with great momentum. With solid fundamentals, we are poised for a terrific year in 1997."
The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday that Bell Atlantic and Nynex Corp. are stepping preparations for a legal counter-attack if the Justice Department blocks their proposed $23 billion merger, which was announced in April 1996.
Smith said the company has been able to absorb significant start-up costs for new ventures, such as the PrimeCo personal communications services partnership and international wireless activities.
The chief factors in the latest results were continued cost-control measures and the strong performance of Bell Atlantic's core business units, driven by revenue growth of 7.6 percent, including Bell Atlantic's proportionate share of domestic cellular revenues.
The year-ago results excluded a non-cash $142.1 million charge the comnpany took to cover a change in the method for booking revenues from its directory publishing business in 1996. After the restatement, first-quarter 1996 net income was $606.8 million, but investors focused on the company's actual operating results.
Bell Atlantic's stock gained $1 to $60.25 in late morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The latest earnings report consolidates the results of the Mexican Grupo Iusacell SA de CV investment for the first time following Bell Atlantic's assumption of operational control of the business in February. Specific figures were not broken out in the company's statement.
Lucent Technologies Inc. said Thursday it earned $66 million the first three months of 1997, reversing a big loss as it ended its first year as an independent company.
Lucent, the former high-technology manufacturing unit of AT&amp;T Corp., reported net income of $66 million, or 10 cents a share, for the three months ended March 31, reversing a loss of $103 million, or 16 cents a share, in the 1996 quarter.
The company, which designs and builds public and private communications systems and networks and telecommunications equipment, said revenues for its fiscal second quarter grew by 12.5 percent to $5.15 billion from $4.58 billion.
Lucent said it benefited from strengthened relationships with the regional Bell companies that followed its spin-off from AT&amp;T a year ago.
Previously, local phone companies had been reluctant to do business with the AT&amp;T equipment unit, seeing AT&amp;T as a potential rival in the coming era of open competition for local and long-distance services.
Of Lucent's four main businesses, only consumer products suffered a decline in revenues for the quarter, which was expected, the company said.
"We're delighted to report double-digit revenue growth and a dramatic quarter-over-quarter rise in profits as we complete our first year as a public company," Chairman Henry Schacht said in a statement.
"Our strong U.S. and international sales to network operators, businesses and microelectronics customers position us well to take maximum advantage of the exploding communications technology market."
The company, based in Murray Hill, N.J., said its gross profit margin for the quarter rose to 42.1 percent of revenues from 39.9 percent, due primarily to higher sales volume and productivity improvements.
Lucent said its revenues from systems for network operators increased 23.3 percent to $2.93 billion. Revenues for microelectronic products increased 18.3 percent to $615 million and revenues for business communications systems increased 14.1 percent to $1.308 billion.
Revenues from consumer products decreased 41 percent to $174 million as a result of continuing reengineering of the business to increase profitability, Lucent said.
The company said the decrease was expected following the closing of its phone centre stores, the streamlining of its product line and expected reductions in phone rentals.
Lucent said continuing demand for second telephone lines in businesses and residences for uses such as Internet access, data traffic and fax services contributed to solid gains in sales of wireless systems, switching systems and related software.
Chief Financial Officer Don Peterson said the company expects its lagging consumer products unit -- the smallest of four product divsions -- to show substantial profit gains in 1997 and a return to revenue growth by the December quarter.
"We expect a substantial improvement in profitablity this year (for the unit) mainly through cost-cutting, and positive revenue growth" due to new products, he said.
Lucent's stock closed at $54.125, down 50 cents a share, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Members of the Norwich Union are to receive 3.1 billion pounds ($5.1 billion) worth of free shares after they overwhelmingly approved plans on Friday to float the insurance group on the London Stock Exchange in June.
The company, Britain's third largest life insurer, said that nearly 99 percent of members who voted had backed management's proposals to drop mutual status and become a public company.
The results of a postal vote announced at a sparsely attended extraordinary general meeting showed 21,000 votes against the plans dwarfed by over 1.85 million members in favour.
Less than 200 Norwich Union members turned up to the meeting held at the London Arena in the capital's Dockland, but a number who did voiced their opposition to the flotation which will see members net an average 800 pounds worth of shares.
Another one million "non-profit" policyholders of the group will receive a fixed handout of shares worth beween 330 and 400 pounds.
Norwich Union chief executive Allan Bridgewater welcomed the result. "We are delighted to have received a resounding endorsement from our members for the flotation proposal and thank them for voting in such numbers," he said.
There were few doubts about the outcome of the vote which follows a series of similar moves by British building societies in the past year.
The Halifax, Alliance and Leicester, and the Woolwich have all received unequivocal backing for plans to convert to banks which have also involved distributing hundreds of pounds worth of shares to members.
Norwich Union also plans to raise 1.75 billion pounds of fresh capital through an offer of new shares in May and Bridegewater said he hoped a considerable part of this would come from existing members increasing their shareholdings.
They will be able to purchase the shares at a discount, the size of which has yet to be announced.
The demutualisation and flotation of the company, the first by a mutually-owned British insurer, will value Norwich Union at around five billion pounds and rank it among Britain's 50 largest companies.
Norwich Union's 10,000 employees will share in the giveawy, receiving 150 shares each.
The two million with-profit members will receive a minimum of 300 shares with additional shares based on the value and duration of their policy holdings as at October 1, 1996.
But the giving up of mutual status, entailing the transfer of ownership from policyholders to shareholders is an emotive issue.
Supporters of mutuality argue that it gives members undiluted exposure to the profits of the business without the need to pay dividends to shareholders.
The attraction of demutualisation is the access to capital it gives. It was the need for capital, with the greater investment flexibility it brings, which drove Scoottish Amicable to put itself up for auction in February.
But there are questionmarks over how long Norwich Union will be able to hold onto its independence.
Australian mutual AMP which lost out in its fight for Scottish Amicable to Britain's Prudential last month, has made no secret of its desire to expand in Britain.
Interest may also come from Europe with a number of continetal insurers including Dutch insurer Aegon and Germany's Allianz looking for a foothold in Britain.
Norwich Union argues its plans will offer more scope for developing the business in the future and allow the separation of the group's life operations from the risks associated with its more volatile and cyclical general insurance business.
A court hearing formally to approve the proposals will take place on April 23.
China may need to adjust the mix of its treasury debt next year to ensure an active response from domestic institutions, analysts said on Friday.
Finance ministry officials were meeting in Beijing on Friday to discuss bond market trends and the issue of China's debt mix could be a focus of the talks, the analysts said.
"There is too much of the non-tradeable type of debt," said a Shenzhen analyst. "It is not really attractive to institutions or individual investors."
China is issuing about 250 billion yuan ($30.1 billion) of state debt this year -- most of it domestic. More than half of the total is for non-tradeable voucher or certificate type treasury debt.
In return for their funds, investors receive a certificate that can be redeemed before maturity. But this type of debt is not listed on either of the nation's stock exchanges in Shanghai or Shenzhen and no active secondary trading exists.
Last year, this non-tradeable type of debt accounted for only about one-tenth of total government debt issued, bond traders said.
"Last year the focus was on the secondary market," said a trader with J&amp;A Securities in Shenzhen. "Most of the debt was tradeable on the nation's exchanges."
Other securities firms agreed the response so far this year had been less than enthusiastic.
"There is not that much interest in the (non-tradeable) offer this year," said an official at China Southern Securities. "I am not very optimistic about the outcome."
A Finance Ministry official denied there were problems with the sales, which began on March 1.
"I am satisfied with the outcome so far," the official told Reuters. "We have until October to complete the sales."
The bonds are offered through bank underwriting syndicates, and analysts said that if the banks have to keep too much of the debt on their own books, they are unlikely to be enthusiastic about next year's issue.
The trend was particularly marked in southern China where economic development has outpaced the rest of the country, giving investors more types of investment vehicles to choose from.
An official at the state-run Industrial and Commercial Bank of China's Shenzhen branch described the response to the offer in the special economic zone bordering Hong Kong as poor.
Some analysts said the problem lay elsewhere. "The interest rate is the real problem," said Zhao Xiaoyun, an analyst at China Securities Co.
Zhao said bond interest rates were unable to match the returns available on the stock market. Domestic A shares in Shanghai have gained 40 percent since the start of the year.
The 1997 state offer includes two-, three- and five-year debt carrying interest of 8.64 percent, 9.18 percent and 10.17 percent. This is 0.72, 0.92 and 1.17 percentage points higher than the interest paid on bank time deposits of corresponding periods.
In the recent past, interest on bonds has been 1.5 to two percentage points higher than equivalent bank rates. But analysts said China may not want to widen the spread between time deposits and bonds too much. The banks may underwrite the debt but they are not eager to see their deposits drawn away by higher interest bonds.
That could mean the best option for the state is to issue debt that can be traded and attracts institutional investors.
On top of its domestic troubles, AT&amp;T Corp must now contend with new threats to its international strategy after Friday's defection of Spain's Telefonica into the rival British Telecom-MCI camp.
"They certainly have a lot of balls up in the air," Bear Stearns telecommunications analyst Bill Deatherage said, referring to the multiple battles facing AT&amp;T, the largest U.S. telephone company.  
The international rebuff comes just ahead of AT&amp;T's first-quarter earnings report, slated for release Monday.
Wall Street expectations are set low after the company's warning to financial analysts in early March that heavy investments in competitive initiatives would cause earnings in 1997 to fall substantially short of profit last year.
Analysts on average expect AT&amp;T to post first-quarter earnings of $0.69 per share, down from $0.90 in the 1996 first quarter.  
Analysts agree AT&amp;T's primary focus must remain on shoring up its domestic results, most of all in its core long-distance business, which is contending with market share losses to large long-distance rivals as well as smaller niche players. At the same time, it must gear up for the emerging competition in local phone and wireless communications services, they said.
Nonetheless, global alliances are forming fast, and AT&amp;T is widely perceived to have been put on the defensive after recent moves by Concert, the British Telecommunications Plc and MCI Communications Corp alliance.  
On Friday, Telefonica de Espana SA said it struck an alliance with MCI and British Telecom, a move that is expected to open up the vast Latin American market for Concert.
Later, AT&amp;T said Telefonica's new relationship was "incompatible" with the Spanish company's membership in the Unisource telecom alliance backed by AT&amp;T.
The U.S.-based company said it expected to spend $8 billion to $9 billion this year -- mainly on new high-speed data networks and to expand wireless services -- which would dilute earnings by $0.75 to $1.00 per share.
British insurers are jostling for position in preparation for the opening of the potentially lucrative Indian market to foreign companies for the first time in over two decades.
On Monday Prudential Corp became the latest company to team up with an Indian partner, announcing plans to explore opportunities in life insurance with Industrial Credit and Investment Corp of India.
The Indian government is expected to outline rules governing participation in the health insurance and pensions industries soon, following February's budget announcement that private and foreign investors would be allowed into the sectors through joint ventures with its two state-run monopolies.
The General Insurance Corp (GIC) and the Life Insurance Corp (LIC) have controlled the industry since life insurance was nationalised in 1956 and general insurance in 1972.
The budget has been a hostage to a political crisis and change of prime minister in recent weeks, but new Indian leader Inder Kumar Gujral has indicated he is keen to push the February budget through parliament quickly.
Participation is initially to be limited to firms with majority Indian ownership but attracted by the possibility of wider reform, British firms have been working hard to forge links with Indian companies.
Many have been visiting India since the early 1990s, well in advance of the report of the government's Malhotra committee which proposed reform.
For many, such as the Pru whose Indian operations were its largest overseas before nationalisation, it will be a return to a market with which historical ties are strong.
Others looking for a foothold in India include Commercial Union which has formed a joint venture for general insurance with the Hindustan Times, part of the KK Birla Group.
Eagle Star, part of B.A.T, has established links with the Indian Tobacco Co, mutually-owned Standard Life with Housing Development Finance Corp, General Accident with the Bombay-based Wadia group, Guardian Royal Exchange with the Peerless Group and Legal &amp; General with SK Modi Group. Royal &amp; Sun have a joint venture with DCM Shriram Consolidated.
Industry analysts expect it to take between six and eight months to pass the necessary legislation and award licenses for the health insurance sector.
Successful applicants are expected to begin operating sometime in 1998.
But how long it takes to liberalise other areas of insurance is open to question.
"I suspect the coalition government is going to hamstring decision-making. I don't see the general insurance market opening up for two or three years. As far as getting licences is concerned we're hostages to the political situation which is volatile," said one British insurance executive.
Government plans, an extension of free-market reforms begun in 1991, have run into opposition from Indian labour unions and parties across the political spectrum.
But fears of a repatriation of funds by foreign companies are unfounded according to a spokesman for one insurance company.
"Insurers try to match liabilities with the funds they have in a country," he said, adding that worries firms would compete for profitable sectors and ignore loss-makers were also misguided.
"The example of the health sector is ample proof that we're willing to enter what is generally believed to be a loss-making sector, turn it around and make it profitable."
Health insurance cover in India is limited compared to the rest of the world and penetration low.
Per capita spending on insurance premiums of around $5 is among the lowest anywhere and compares with $30 in Thailand and $407 in Taiwan according to Eagle Star figures.
But its potential is enormous. The middle class is estimated at between 250 and 300 million people and the finance ministry estimates the insurance industry is growing at around 11 percent annually. ($ = 0.612 British Pounds)
AT&amp;T Corp. said Monday its first-quarter profits fell 17 percent, trimmed by competition in long-distance services and investments in new businesses, and warned second quarter results might be weak as well.
Meanwhile, BellSouth Corp., a strong performer among regional telephone companies, said its operating earnings rose 11 percent due to a rise in the number of customer lines and strong growth in its wireless operations.
AT&amp;T said it earned $1.13 billion, or 69 cents a share, on revenues of $13.05 billion, down from net income of $1.36 billion, or 85 cents a share, on revenues of $12.85 billion in the first quarter of 1996.
AT&amp;T's earnings per share for the first quarter were in line with Wall Street's expectations based on previous guidance the company had provided financial analysts.
"Results are where we expected them to be as we implement our strategy," Chairman Robert Allen said in a statement.
In a conference call Monday, AT&amp;T also warned that its second quarter results were likely to be weaker than the first quarter but that its expectations for the full year remained on track.
Most Wall Street analysts said they planned to reduce their earnings estimates for the remainder of the year.
"There was not a great deal to cheer in the results," Goldman Sachs analyst Richard Klugman said.
AT&amp;T's first quarter revenue increase was driven by growth in local telephone service and other initiatives, business long-distance services and wireless services. That was partially offset by declines in financial services and consumer long-distance revenues, the company said.
AT&amp;T said long-distance calling volume in the most recent quarter increased by 6.7 percent over the same period of 1996, but revenue from those services rose only 0.6 percent to $11.51 billion.
Volume from consumer long-distance was flat and revenue fell 1 percent to $6.06 billion, the company said. Revenue from business long-distance rose 2.4 percent on a double-digit increase in volume.
"AT&amp;T's results portend a tougher environment for other long distance companies of all sizes," said Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Reingold, adding that prices in the industry were falling more steeply than he expected.
What is bad news for AT&amp;T and its rivals, however, is good news for consumers who are already seeing the benefit of sharply lower international calling rates, analysts said.
Atlanta-based BellSouth said it earned $693 million, or 70 cents a share, on revenues of $4.8 billion in the three months ended March 31, slightly ahead of Wall Street expectations.
A year earlier the company earned $626 million, or 63 cents a share, before a one-time gain of $344 million, or 35 cents a share, on the sale of paging operations.
Revenues were $4.5 billion in the 1996 quarter.
"BellSouth's 17th consecutive quarter of improved operating results was driven by our innovative marketing," said Chief Executive Officer Duane Ackerman, adding that, "Sales increased across the board."
The company said the number of customer lines increased by 379,000 -- the biggest gain for any quarter in its history, breaking the old mark of 359,000 set in the first quarter of 1996. BellSouth now has a total of 22.5 milllion access lines.
BellSouth said the company's U.S. cellular operations ended the first quarter with 3.8 million customers, reflecting an annual growth rate of 24 percent. In international cellular markets, customers rose 76 percent since the first quarter of 1996, reaching 1.5 million.
"These are just blistering numbers," Montgomery Securities analyst Bill Vogel said of BellSouth's growth in customer access lines and the value-added services like Caller ID and Call Waiting the company offers in addition to basic access.
"They not only have the access lines growing, but the services on those lines growing sharply," he said.
Vogel, who maintains a "buy" rating on the stock, said he expected BellSouth earnings to accelerate beyond the 11 percent rise seen in the first quarter as the company benefits from rising growth in new services.
BellSouth stock closed down 50 cents at $40.50 and AT&amp;T closed off 62.5 cents at $33, on the New York Stock Exchange.
AT&amp;T Corp. said Monday its first-quarter profits fell 17 percent, trimmed by competition in long-distance services and investments in new businesses, and warned second quarter results might be weak as well.
Meanwhile, BellSouth Corp., a consistent top performer among regional telephone companies, said its operating earnings rose 11 percent due to a rise in the number of customer lines and strong growth in its wireless operations.
AT&amp;T said it earned $1.13 billion, or 69 cents a share, on revenues of $13.05 billion, down from net income of $1.36 billion, or 85 cents a share, on revenues of $12.85 billion in the first quarter of 1996.
AT&amp;T's earnings per share for the first quarter were in line with Wall Street's expectations based on previous guidance the company had provided financial analysts.
"Results are where we expected them to be as we implement our strategy," Chairman Robert Allen said in a statement.
In a conference call Monday, AT&amp;T also warned that its second quarter results were likely to be weaker than the first quarter but that its expectations for the full year remained on track.
Several Wall Street analysts said they planned to reduce their earnings estimates for the remainder of the year.
"There was not a great deal to cheer in the results," Goldman Sachs analyst Richard Klugman said.
AT&amp;T's first quarter revenue increase was driven by growth in local telephone service and other initiatives, business long-distance services and wireless services. That was partially offset by declines in financial services and consumer long-distance revenues, the company said.
AT&amp;T said long-distance calling volume in the most recent quarter increased by 6.7 percent over the same period of 1996, but revenue from those services rose only 0.6 percent to $11.51 billion.
Volume from consumer long-distance was flat and revenue fell 1 percent to $6.06 billion, the company said. Revenue from business long-distance rose 2.4 percent on a double-digit increase in volume.
AT&amp;T said expansion in online, local and international operations reduced its quarterly per share income by 25 cents. A year earlier, those expenses reduced earnings by 10 cents a share, AT&amp;T said.
Atlanta-based BellSouth said it earned $693 million, or 70 cents a share, on revenues of $4.8 billion in the three months ended March 31, slightly ahead of Wall Street expectations.
A year earlier the company earned $626 million, or 63 cents a share, before a one-time gain of $344 million, or 35 cents a share, on the sale of paging operations.
Revenues were $4.5 billion in the 1996 quarter.
"BellSouth's 17th consecutive quarter of improved operating results was driven by our innovative marketing," said Chief Executive Officer Duane Ackerman, adding that, "Sales increased across the board."
The company said the number of customer lines increased by 379,000 -- the biggest gain for any quarter in its history, breaking the old mark of 359,000 set in the first quarter of 1996. BellSouth now has a total of 22.5 milllion access lines.
BellSouth said the company's U.S. cellular operations ended the first quarter with 3.8 million customers, reflecting an annual growth rate of 24 percent. In international cellular markets, customers rose 76 percent since the first quarter of 1996, reaching 1.5 million.
"These are just blistering numbers," Montgomery Securities analyst Bill Vogel said of BellSouth's growth in customer access lines and the value-added services like Caller ID and Call Waiting the company offers in addition to basic access.
"They not only have the access lines growing, but the services on those lines growing sharply," he said.
Vogel, who maintains a "buy" rating on the stock, said he expected BellSouth earnings to accelerate beyond the 11 percent rise seen in the first quarter as the company benefits from rising growth in new services.
BellSouth stock was down $1.125 at $39.875 and AT&amp;T stock was off 75 cents at $32.875, both in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Britain's Co-operative Wholesale Society (CWS) breathed a sigh of relief on Thursday as the ambitious takeover bid led by 31-year-old Andrew Regan crumbled in a flurry of legal writs.
But the company's satisfaction at seeing off Regan may be tempered by the realisation that its battle for independence may have only just begun.
While the chances of Regan ever succeeding in his bold attempt to buy the group and sell off its disparate parts were probably always slim, the move has alerted many in the industry to the underlying and, some say, under-utilised CWS assets.
The view among banking observers was that CWS remains in play whatever the outcome of the Regan episode.
"It's not the end of saga. It may be the end of Regan's offer but that's not the same thing. Regan's done a lot of other people's work for them," commented one banking source.
In favour of its hopes of staying independent, CWS boasts a convoluted ownership and voting structure which complicates any hostile takeover attempt.
But Regan, who had planned to mount a bid approach through a unit of his Lanica Trust Plc, has identified both a wealth of underperforming assets and possible purchasers in the event of any break-up, and put in place the financing to back it.
It was not the deal that ultimately foundered, but doubts about Regan himself that allowed CWS to claim victory in what may prove to be only round one of its fight for independence.
Last week, the group turned in a 10 million pound ($16.2 million) fall in profits for the year before tax and distribution to its members of 68.2 million pounds on flat sales of around three billion pounds.
A 21 percent rise in trading profits in its banking arm was more than offset by falls in its trading operations.
Regan planned a 1.2 billion pound offer for CWS through a company specially set up for the purpose - Galileo Group - intending to sell off CWS businesses which include supermarkets, banking, insurance as well as opticians, chemists and funeral parlours.
Allied Irish Banks confirmed it was among those interested in Co-op businesses, and supermarket chain J.Sainsbury was also reported to be among those lining up to purchase the assets.
The plans foundered amid allegations of financial irregularities regarding an earlier deal Regan had been involved in concerning a food supply agreement with the CWS and Hobson Plc, which was run by Regan at that time.
CWS has launched criminal proceedings against Regan, partner David Lyons and suspended CWS employee Allan Green relating to confidential documents allegedly stolen by Green.
It is also suing Regan's banking advisor Hambros and law firm Travers Smith Braithwaite.
According to banking sources, Regan's decision to ditch his bid may have been precipitated by the threat that his financial backers were about to pull out.
Japanese bank Nomura which was financing it was understood to be very unhappy about the allegations surrounding Regan and had written to Hambros on Wednesday demanding a full explanation of them by nine o'clock Thursday morning.
But Nomura had not been satisfied by the response it had received according to the industry sources and was reviewing its position when Regan announced he was dropping his bid.
A spokesman for Nomura declined to comment. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
MCI Communications Corp. Thursday reported flat quarterly earnings despite a healthy rise in revenues, and the company warned that growth might slow as it embraces higher profit margin businesses.
The telecommunications company earned $295 million, or 42 cents a share, in the first quarter, unchanged from a year ago and in line with analysts' consensus estimates. Revenues grew 8.7 percent to $4.9 billion from $4.1 billion.
"MCI continues to demonstrate strong overall revenue growth and profits," said Gerald Taylor, chief executive. "As we move towards our merger with BT, MCI is focused on implementing long term strategies that position us for growth."
In October, MCI and British Telecom announced a merger valued at $23 billion that would create the world's second-largest telecommunications group. The deal is expected to close in the fall, subject to regulatory approval.
Long-distance revenues rose 8.2 percent to $4.4 billion from $4.1 billion, twice the pace of MCI's key long distance rivals, it said. Operating income was $653 million, a rise of $39 million, or 6.4 percent from last year's first quarter.
Traffic grew 4 percent from the 1996 first quarter.
MCI said, however, that it expected revenue and traffic growth rates to slow in coming quarters as the industry's growth in home phone markets moderates and as MCI invests more money in higher profit margin businesses.
Washington-based MCI said it was shifting away from selling access to its network at wholesale prices to other telephone companies, and tightening credit collection among the companies to which it sells network access.
In an interview, Chief Financial Officer Doug Maine said MCI's strategy of replacing discount-seeking residential callers with customers willing to pay for value-added services should insulate it from the industry-wide slowdown.
MCI's strategy echoes concerns by rival AT&amp;T Corp., which described in its own first-quarter report Monday competitive pressures and a variety of costly ways to keep customers.
Until remaining barriers to entering the local services market drop, Maine said MCI will avoid chasing low-end consumers with AT&amp;T's practice of writing them checks.
Bear Stearns analyst Bette Massick said MCI appeared to be making progress in reducing the number of customers who switch to whichever provider offers the cheapest calling plan.
In both the business and mass markets, MCI said it is benefiting from efforts to offer integrated voice and data services on one bill under its networkMCI One and MCI One brands.
MCI's Business Markets posted double-digit revenue growth, led by especially strong growth in value-added services such as data, Internet, conferencing and pre-paid calling cards.
Business services account for about two-thirds of the company's overall revenues.
MCI's Information Technology revenues grew 27 percent to $433 million, with U.S. revenue doubling year-over-year. MCI said revenue from its Internet services has grown nearly 200 percent over first quarter 1996.
Local services revenue grew to $65 million or 63 percent year-over-year and jumped 33 percent from fourth quarter 1996, it said. MCI's stock fell $1.375 to $37.375 on Nasdaq.
U S West Communications Group. reported better-than-expected first-quarter earnings Friday, citing successful marketing programmes and tighter cost controls.
The Englewood, Colo.-based telephone operator earned $328 million, or 68 cents per share, in the first quarer, up from $289 million, or 61 cents, a year earlier.
The earnings were several cents ahead of Wall Street expectations, which, according to First Call Inc., put earnings at 65 cents a share.
"U S West Communications Group has started off 1997 with double-digit momentum on the heels of 1996's accelerating results," said Richard McCormick, chairman of U S West Inc., the holding group for the phone company.
U S West Communications serves more than 25 million customers in 14 Western and Midwestern states.
U S West officials cautioned analysts against raising their earnings projections for the year, saying investments in new wireless networks and growing competition were likely to dampen earnings growth.
The current consensus estimate for the 1997 year has U S West Communications earning $2.54 per share vs. $2.44 per share in 1996, according to First Call.
"Absent a significant regulatory shift, we remain comfortable with the consensus estimate for the 1997 year," Chief Financial Officer Allan Spies told Wall Street analysts.
Spies stood by a prediction U S West made at a February analysts' meeting, projecting overall earnings growth of 4 percent to 6 percent in 1997. First-quarter 1997 earnings per share grew 11.5 percent.
Revenues rose 5 percent to $2.59 billion from $2.46 billion.
The company said local service revenues grew 7.5 percent to $1.23 billion in the quarter, with almost half the growth driven by sales of value-added features beyond basic access.
It said Caller ID subscribers rose by an unprecendented 900,000 in the first quarter due to an aggressive promotional campaign. The product is now used by 26 percent of its residential customers.
Goldman Sachs analyst Richard Klugman said the company also benefited from labour cost cuts. U S West Communications trimmed 4,000 employees in the last four quarters. It now has a work force of just over 47,000.
U S West Communications, among other Baby Bell stocks, rose amid speculation of other combinations after U.S. regulators approved the merger of Bell Atlantic Corp. and Nynex Corp.
It closed up $1.875 at $33.25 on the New York Stock Exchange.
British tobacco-to-insurance group B.A.T Industries on Wednesday said it was confident a string of tobacco-related lawsuits in the United States would have no material impact on its bottom line.
But chairman Lord Cairns said the company must brace itself for "occasional reversals along the way, especially at the lower court level".
B.A.T's American subsidiary Brown &amp; Williamson is facing a string of lawsuits, including 24 cases brought by individual states to recover funds spent on treating patients with tobacco-related illnesses.
Speaking after the group released flat first quarter pre-tax profits, B.A.T chief executive Martin Broughton declined to comment on recent press reports that the industry may be in negotiations over a possible $300 billion settlement of the lawsuits.
Broughton also would not comment on suggestions that the tobacco industry may be able to rely on insurance cover to offset the claims.
The issue of insurance, he said, was complex both factually and legally, with many different policies containing many different exclusion clauses.
Schroders insurance analyst Paul Hodges in a recent research note argued that loosely worded general liability insurance policies could open the way for claims by the tobacco industry against their insurance companies.
On Wednesday, B.A.T reported a one million pound ($1.6 million) rise in group pre-tax profits to 591 million pounds in the first three months of the year.
But the company repeated a warning made at last week's annual shareholders meeting that if the strength of the British currency persisted it may hold back the group's full-year results.
B.A.T shares eased slightly after the broadly in-line figures, shedding 1-1/2 pence to 522-1/2 pence by early afternoon.
Total trading profit from B.A.T's financial services business rose three percent to 266 million, with the general business slightly ahead at 142 million pounds and the life companies showing a six percent rise to 124 million pounds.
In North America, insurer Farmers made an encouraging start to the year with all round business growth fuelling a six percent rise in profits to 163 million pounds. But market conditions remained difficult for B.A.T's British business where profits fell two million pounds to 77 million pounds.
While the company expects further rises in premiums in the coming year, it anticipates increases to be limited.
Asked about the recent consolidation in the industry Broughton said the company remained "alert to acquisition opportunities" but did not feel the need to do anything urgently.
Re-emphasising comments made last year, he said, the group lacked a strong brand in the independent financial advisory segment of the market and that was likely to be the focus of the group's acqusition appetite.
Total tobacco profit of 363 million pounds would have risen by eight percent but for a 22 million pound provision for the future closure of a cigarette factory in the German capital Berlin, which reduced the increase to two percent.
Total group cigarette volumes rose slightly to 167 billion pounds, with good gains in Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa and Europe more than compensating for reduced sales in North America.
Tobacco profit from the America-Pacific region was lower at 140 million pounds in the first quarter. Reduced sales in a very competitive U.S. domestic market and the loss of contribution from the sale of brands disposed of at the end of 1996 as required by U.S. competition authorities, more than offset the benefit of last year's price increase.
B.A.T's American subsidiary Brown &amp; Williamson saw lower shipments and its market share fell to 16.3 percent from 17.5 percent, mainly due to the sale of the brands. ($ = 0.614 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London on Thursday dismissed concerns about its exposure to possible U.S. tobacco-related insurance claims.
A spokesman for the insurance market said that the possibility of large tobacco liability claims against the industry was not regarded as a significant issue for Lloyd's.
There had been no substantial volume of tobacco manufacturers' coverage underwritten directly with the Lloyd's market, he said, and any claims applying to years prior to 1993 would be covered by the Equitas reinsurance vehicle.
Equitas was set up under last year's Lloyd's rescue plans to run-off the market's billions of pounds of pre-1993 losses.
Tobacco was one of the potential health hazards scrutinised in the course of the "exhaustive" reserving work for Equitas, and no significant exposures were identified, said Lloyd's.
"Health-related claims against tobacco companies have been covered by robustly worded policy exclusions for many years," added the spokesman.
The question of whether such clauses are sufficient to exclude cover for tobacco-related claims are at the centre of a piece of research recently produced by Schroders insurance analyst Paul Hodges.
Hodges suggests that loosely worded general liability policies may open the way for tobacco-related claims against insurers should the tide turn in legal cases currently being fought out in U.S. courts.
The tobacco industry is facing thousands of individual claims from sufferers of smoking-related diseases and on Wednesday Ohio became the twenty-fifth U.S. state to say it would be seeking to recover public money spent on treating illnesses caused by smoking.
Last month, the Louisiana attorney-general named more than one hundred insurers as co-defendants in its action against tobacco companies.
But the tobbaco industry has never had damages upheld at the end of the appeal process, in more than 500 cases filed since 1954.
For their part, tobacco manufacturers are keeping silent on the extent of any insurance cover they may have.
Asked about it at B.A.T Industries' first quarter results on Wednesday, chief executive Martin Broughton was tight lipped, saying only that the issue was complex and "certain to require litigation" to clarify it.
No tobacco company has tried to claim against its insurer in the U.S. because, argues Hodges, of the costs involved, fear of losing control of its defence, and scrutiny of possibly embarrassing internal documents under U.S. discovery laws.
But the bottom line according to one insurance market observer is that no-one knows whether insurers will be dragged into the courts or whether the exclusion clauses will stand up. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
AT&amp;T Corp. said Thursday it withdrew its application with the U.S. government for a license to launch a new generation of communications satellites.
AT&amp;T's decision to cancel its application to the Federal Communications Commission follows the disposal of several of its existing satellite businesses in recent months, completing its exit from the satellite operations business.
In a statement, the New York-based company said investment in the new Ka-band satellite technology was a drain on capital resources that did not fit with a renewed focus on its core long-distance business and key growth areas like wireless, online and local services.
Ka-band refers to radio frequencies that handle two-way voice and data communications. The Ka-band satellites would hover in place in a geostationary orbit instead of circling the Earth.
The new class of satellites would have allowed AT&amp;T to offer a range of next-generation communications services such as video, data transmission and high-speed Internet services.
"We are focusing on our core business and some growth areas, and satellites is not core to that," AT&amp;T spokesman Gary Morgenstern said, adding that the company was not withdrawing from the satellite business completely.
AT&amp;T continues to offer satellite-based services through its minority investment in the Direct TV direct broadcast satellite venture of Hughes Electronics Corp.
AT&amp;T's Ka-band project was formally known to the industry as the AT&amp;T VoiceSpan Satellite System.
The company said about 50 employees are engaged in the VoiceSpan project and that it would attempt to reassign them.
In April, General Electric Co.'s GE Spacenet unit agreed to buy AT&amp;T's Very Small Aperture Terminal satellite operations for an undisclosed amount.
In March, AT&amp;T sold its Skynet Satellite Services unit to Loral Space &amp; Commmunications Ltd. for $478 milion. AT&amp;T also collected roughly $130 million on an insurance claim for one of its satellites which it lost in space in January.
The sale of the existing satellite operations means AT&amp;T no longer directly owns any communications satellites.
In addition, AT&amp;T recently agreed to dispose of its undersea communications cable unit -- another operation it had considered low on its list of priorities -- to Tyco International Ltd. in a deal worth about $850 million.
A dozen companies, including Hughes, Loral Space, and the international satellite consortium Intelsat have announced plans to compete in the Ka-band satellite market.
Satellites offering such high-speed communications services are not expected to be launched until the year 2000.
Nynex Corp. has until Monday to respond to charges it acted in bad faith by not signing an agreement with MCI Communications Corp. that would have allowed the nation's No. 2 long-distance carrier to enter Nynex's local market in New York state.
MCI filed a motion against Nynex on Monday asking the state Public Service Commission (PSC) to impose sanctions on Nynex for failing to sign the so-called interconnection agreement, which would enable MCI to provide local phone access in the state.
On Wednesday, state Attorney General Dennis Vacco filed papers with the commission seeking to bar Nynex from offering long-distance service because it discriminates against local-service rivals.
Vacco has been an outspoken critic of the proposed Bell Atlantic Corp. takeover of Nynex, and its New York Telephone operating unit, on anticompetitive grounds.
Nynex operates 11.1 million local service lines while competitors have less than 100,000 local service lines, according to state regulators' estimates.
Nynex spokesman Mark Marchand said the New York-based company strongly disagreed with Vacco's assessment of their draft application for long-distance service in New York.
"Fifty phone companies are licensed with the PSC to provide all forms of local phone service," Marchand said. "What they do is up to them. The market is open. There is no other state in the country which has a more competitive market."
Nynex has signed full interconnection deals with competitive access providers, including MFS Communications, a unit of WorldCom Inc.; Teleport Communications Group Inc. and WinStar Communications Inc.
The deals would allow the companies to route traffic over their own network switching equipment.
In addition, Nynex has reached resale pacts with Frontier Corp., among others, to allow companies to offer local access over Nynex's network.
Most of the new entrants into the New York local service market are focused on profitable niches in the business services market, rather than residential service.
The dispute is part of a broad change across the United States due to the 1996 Telecommunications Act, under which local and long-distance providers are seeking to meet regulatory requirements that would allow them to compete on each other's historic turf.
Washington-based MCI, which has waged an agressive campaign to enter local service markets, so far has reached five interconnection deals -- two in California, where Pacific Telesis and GTE Corp. operate, and with the respective Baby Bells in Georgia, Minnesota and Iowa.
Seeking to show its readiness to compete in high-speed networking, Bay Networks Inc on Tuesday unveiled a set of products and strategies aimed at shoring up its reputation as a technology leader and helping it recover from the stumbles of recent years.
David House, Bay's recently hired chairman and chief executive, outlined the company's new "Adaptive Networking" strategy for making the plumbing of Internet-based networks easier to upgrade to the higher-speed networks now emerging.  
"Everybody's goal is networks that are invisible to the user," House said during a Las Vegas press conference at Networld+Interop, the semiannual trade show of the Internet equipment industry.
"We want networks that behave like electricity and water," House said, comparing computer networks to other well-developed infrastructures.
"Adaptive Networks are the products and technologies that will transition us to the Internet-optimized networks of tomorrow," he said.  
His appearance came exactly six months after House joined Bay Networks from Intel Corp, where he served as a respected senior executive for more than two decades.
Highlighting the company's new product announcements was a new single, application-specific networking chip capable of carrying up to 1.5 million packets of Internet data a second --- allowing networks to carry billions of bits of data per second.
The company said the new Route Switch Processor (RSP) integrates the manageability of routers with the speed of switches -- two traditionally separate product categories.  
House said the RSP chip, now running in Bay laboratories, would be offered in new routing switch products due out in 1998.
The RSP chip is designed to solve the growing demand for high-speed Internet transmission, while reducing technical bottlenecks that cause congestion on overloaded data networks.
House said RSP would serve as the core technology in its main product lines, including local networks used in corporate offices and in products serving telephone and Internet carriers.  
He said the chip would allow Bay to cut switch product prices tenfold over time, driving the cost of advanced switching down to $500 per connection from $5,000 currently.
Sounding like the old chip revolution evangelist he is, House described what he said were the semiconductor-driven dynamics of the networking business, which is seeing benefits from both exponential jumps in the power of computer chip technology and commodity-style price cuts.
The latest rise in Britain's lending rates is unlikely to put the brakes on the recovery in house prices, market experts said on Tuesday.
While the impact of today's 1/4 point rate rise is widely expected to be limited, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors warned that further rises in rates could risk widening the country's north-south divide in the housing market.
The warning came after some of Britain's largest home loan providers raised mortgage rates in response to the newly elected Labour Government's decision to increase base rates from six to 6-1/4 percent.
Britain's biggest mortgage provider, the Halifax Building Society and Abbey National Plc acted quickly to raise their lending rates after news of the government's move. The Halifax raised its rate to 7.6 from 7.25 percent, while Abbey raised its rates by 31 basis points.
The two, who together have more than four million borrowers, are likely to be followed by other mortgage providers.
Despite worries about future rises, today's increase is unlikely to halt a recovery in Britain's housing market, which has seen prices rise throughout the country and boom in London and the South East region, after falling sharply during the early 1990s.
According to figures from NatWest Group, house prices fell on average by 1.5 percent annually between 1990 and 1995.
"Today's interest rate rise will do little to harm the housing market recovery, but any further rises, if coupled with the abolition of mortgage interest tax relief (MIRAS), would leave thousands of homeowners worse off and widen the north/south divide," said the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
MIRAS has been widely tipped as a possible casualty in the Labour government's plans to implement its spending plans while keeping its income tax pledges.
It is a proportionately bigger benefit for homeowners in the north of Britain, where the average mortgage of 40,000 pounds ($64,700) is less than half that in the south east.
Today's interest rate rise is not expected to be the last and the Institution of Chartered Surveyors estimate that a one percentage point rise in rates, together with the loss of MIRAS, could increase the cost of the average mortgage by around 60 pounds a month by the end of the year.
Others, however, were less gloomy about the future prospects for house prices.
A spokesman for the National Association of Estate Agents said they were disappointed by the rise in rates but said they did not expect it to have a major impact on buyer confidence.
NatWest Group are forecasting a strong rise in the market in 1997, peaking at over 10 percent nationally and at more than 15 to 20 percent in London and the South East.
Despite predicting year-end interest rates of seven percent, Natwest estimate house prices will rise by eight percent in 1997 and average 4.5 percent annually between 1997 and 2001.
Strong growth in personal incomes reflecting rising employment, higher earnings and lower taxes, together with maturing TESSA saving plans and windfalls estimated at over 20 billion pounds from building society and insurance company mergers and stock market flotations, are behind NatWest's positive outlook.
It also does not expect mortgage rates to rise much above current low levels, "ensuring that houses remain very affordable by historical norms".
That view was echoed by Halifax chief executive Mike Blackburn.
"Mortgage rates are still at a relatively low level and it is clear that the housing market is continuing to recover. We do not believe this increase will halt the recovery," said Blackburn.
After the latest change, interest rates are still around half the peak experienced in 1990. ($ = 0.618 British Pounds)
British insurance group Norwich Union said on Tuesday it will float on the London Stock Exchange on June 16.
The company, Britain's third largest life insurer, expects to allocate around 1.3 billion free shares to 2.9 million qualifying members as part of its plan to drop its mutual status and become a public limited company.
Norwich also hopes to raise 1.75 billion pounds ($2.8 billion) of fresh capital through an offer of new shares. Existing members will be able to buy the shares at a discount, the size of which will be announced on May 21.
Last month Norwich members voted overwhelmingly in favour of its conversion proposals, the first by a mutually owned British insurer.
The flotation will value it at around five billion pounds, ranking it among the country's 50 largest companies.
Norwich members wishing to participate in the public offering will have to apply for a minimum of 400 pounds worth of shares. There will be an upper ceiling on applications by members of 100,000 pounds.
Non-members, who will not receive any discounts, will have to apply for at least 1,000 pounds worth of shares and those registering with the Norwich will be sent a mini-prospectus from May 21.
Around 1.5 billion pounds of the money raised will go into the existing with-profits fund to enable the company to keep up benefits to policyholders.
The balance, less the 120 million pound cost of the flotation, will be used for corporate purposes.
Around 1.8 million "with profit" members will net an average of 800 pounds worth of free shares under the plans. They will receive a minimum of 300 shares with additional shares based on the value and duration of their policies as at October 1, 1996.
Another one million "non-profit" policyholders will receive a fixed allocation of 150 shares worth between 330 and 400 pounds.
Norwich sent British and Irish members a booklet today, providing information on how to buy shares at a discount.
Application forms and a mini-prospectus will be sent to members along with details of the size of the discount on May 21.
A June 10 deadline has been set for the return of the forms and payment ahead of the start of trading in the shares on June 16.
Norwich said it was setting up a single company personal equity plan (PEP) for which there will be no initial charge. For plans opened within 42 days of flotation, the first year's management fee will be waived. ($ = 0.618 British Pounds)
Royal Bank of Scotland's telephone-based insurance subsidiary Direct Line said on Wednesday that it believed the motor insurance cycle had bottomed and forecast profits for the year would top last year's levels.
But the company, Britain's largest motor insurer, also struck a cautionary note, warning that competition remained tough and it could not be taken for granted that "irrationality" would not return to the motor insurance market.
The comments came as Direct Line reported a small rise in pre-tax profits to eight million pounds ($13.1 million) for the six months to the end of March from five million pounds twelve months ago.
"We see signs in the market place that prices are beginning to recover and expect our results this year to be somewhat higher than last year," said Royal Bank's chief executive George Mathewson.
"Some of the people writing about doomsday scenarios seem to slightly off the mark," he added.
The rise in profits expected for the current year would result partly from the firming in motor rates and partly from an improvement in claims experience, he said.
However, the full effects of the recovery in the motor market are not expected to be fully reflected until next year.
Last year saw an 86 million pound slide in Direct Line profits to 26.5 million pounds following intense competition in the motor market where rates have been falling since 1993.
Continued price competition and rising personal injury claims costs again dominated results with lower average motor premium rates and volumes reducing profits by some 15 million pounds.
The performance was much in line with expectations, said analysts, and was unlikely to prompt any significant changes in forecasts.
"They're not saying rates are rising materially, just that they're edging ahead," commented one.
The company said that expense and accident repair claims costs remained firmly under control over the period and that it had held operating costs for each in-force policy steady at 45 pounds.
With a cost structure roughly half that of rivals there were limited savings in that area to be made, Mathewson said.
Claims, however, offer some potential with the development of Direct Line's own repair centres, he added.
The company has four sites now operational and plans to open a further four.
"These are really very different to any concept that we have seen before in the industry. We expect to reduce repair claims and offer a substantially improved service to the customer," said Mathewson.
Direct Line chief executive Ian Chippendale described the first half performance as a "good result in exceptional market conditions".
"Our business is in excellent shape with a prudent balance achieved between market share, costs and profitability. The company is exceptionally well placed to move forward as rationality returns to the motor market place," said Chippendale.
Direct Line said it had allowed its motor market share to fall to 2.1 million from 2.2 million while pricing remained "irrational" but renewal rates were a healthy 82 percent.
Total gross premium income for the period rose four million pounds to 308 million pounds while total assets rose 16 percent to 1.27 billion pounds.
Claims costs were 12 million pounds lower than the same period last year which was hit by exceptionally severe winter weather.
The company continued to expand its home insurance account, increasing policies to 819,000 by March.
Direct Line Financial Services had also seen good progress with the mortgage book now standing at 870 million pounds and savings book 370 million pounds. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
British insurance broker and risk management consultant Willis Corroon Group Plc on Wednesday blamed sterling's strength and continued competition for a five percent fall in profits over the first three months of the year.
Pre-tax profits first quarter fell to 45.7 million pounds ($74.7 million) in the first quarter from 48.1 million pounds last year.
But after adjusting for the adverse impact of foreign exchange movements of 4.4 million pounds, underlying profits were up four percent.
Brokerage and fee revenue from continuing operations fell by seven percent to 184.2 million pounds.
Willis executive chairman John Reeve said the results were in line with expectations at the start of the year and reflected "intensifying competition" between underwriters which had led to further falls in premium rates.
Shares in the company dipped slightly after the figures which analysts said broadly met forecasts, losing four pence to 144 pence by late morning.
"There's the effect of falling premium rates, the effect of the currency and an element of shifting profits from the first quarter to later in the year," said one analyst.
"They are looking to enhance shareholder value over time but it's not going to happen overnight. There isn't any great underlying revenue growth. Costs are likely to be held down and brokerage to remain flat so it's not very exciting basically."
The strengthening of sterling against the dollar and other currencies had a disproportionate effect on the results due to the weighting of foreign currency revenues in the company's global speciality businesses in the early part of the year.
As previously forecast, changes in the pattern of the business were likely to reduce the proportion of annual profit arising in the first quarter, Reeve said.
"Against this background, our underlying performance is satisfactory, with encouraging growth in a number of key business segments," he said.
Industry consolidation had led to significant shifts in the competitive environment and the resulting large combinations created both challenges and opportunities, said Reeve.
A series of mergers among rivals has left Willis and British rival Sedgwick Group trailing far behind industry giants Aon Corp and Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos Inc of the U.S.
Chicago-based Aon has bought out three of its rivals in the past six months and said only last week that it was still interested in doing more deals.
Marsh &amp; McLennan's $1.8 billion acquisition of privately-owned Johnson &amp; Higgins in March has further increased the pressure on the two British brokers and raised the prospect of the two being pushed into each others arms as the only solution to their current difficulties.
However, Willis has always brushed off suggestions it may be interested in teaming up with its British rival.
Reeve said the company intended to continue to pursue its change programme, designed to alter fundamentally the way it does business and "seize new development opportunities within the altered market-place."
($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
Royal Bank of Scotland's telephone-based insurance subsidiary Direct Line on Wednesday said it had seen signs that the bottom of the motor insurance cycle had passed and that it expected results this year to improve on 1996.
But the company, Britain's largest motor insurer, struck a note of caution, warning that it could not be taken for granted that "irrationality" would not return to the motor insurance market.
The comments came as Direct Line reported a small rise in pre-tax profits for the six months to the end of March to eight million pounds ($13.1 million) from five million pounds in 1996.
"We see signs in the market place that prices are beginning to recover and we expect our results this year to be better than last year," said Royal Bank's chief executive George Mathewson.
"Some of the people writing about doomsday scenarios seem to slightly off the mark," he said.
Last year saw an 86 million pound slide in Direct Line profits to 26.5 million pounds as a result of the intense competition in the motor insurance market where rates have been falling since 1993.
Continued price competition in motor and rising personal injury claims costs again dominated the results with lower average motor premium rates and volumes reducing profits by 15 million pounds.
However, the company said that expense and accident repair claims costs remained firmly under control and it had held operating cost per in-force policy steady at 45 pounds.
With a cost structure roughly half that of rivals there were limited cost savings that could be made, Mathewson said.
Claims, however, offered some potential and one opportunity in that area was development of Direct Line's own repair centres.
The company has four sites now operational and has purchased a further three.
"These are really very different to any concept that we have seen before in the industry. We expect to reduce repair claims and offer a substantially improved service to the customer," said Mathewson.
Claims costs were 12 million pounds lower than the same period last year which was hit by exceptionally severe winter weather.
Direct Line chief executive Ian Chippendale described the performance as a "good result in exceptional market conditions".
"Our business is in excellent shape with a prudent balance achieved between market share, costs and profitability. The company is exceptionally well placed to move forward as rationality returns to the motor market place," said Chippendale.
Direct Line said it had allowed its motor market share to fall to 2.1 million from 2.2 million while pricing remained "irrational".
Total gross premium income for the period rose four million pounds to 308 million pounds while total assets rose 16 percent to 1.27 billion pounds.
The company continued to expand its home insurance account, increasing policies to 819,000 by March.
Direct Line Financial Services had also seen good progress across its whole product range with the mortgage book now standing at 870 million pounds and savings book 370 million pounds. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London, beset by huge losses until 1993, is focused on its future and the needs of its clients after one of the most dramatic periods in its 300-year history, chairman Sir David Rowland said.
In the insurance market's 1996 report and accounts published on Wednesday, Rowland said that Lloyd's had to continue to offer first-rate security to keep the confidence of its policyholders.
It also had to "strive to make its internal arrangements as transparent and equitable as possible".
"The forces that shape the future must be the needs of our clients and our determination to preserve the unique marketplace, with its powerful attractions to clients and brokers alike, that is both our inheritance and the source of our future prosperity," said Rowland.
The successful implementation of last year's reconstruction package and the settling of the "great majority of the litigation that beset us" had removed huge uncertainties, said Rowland.
Huge losses run up between 1988 and 1993 threatened the future of the insurance market before the 'Reconstruction &amp; Renewal' (R&amp;R) plan was put in place last year.
Since the completion of R&amp;R, the priority has shifted to debt collection and so far more than 1,300 writs have been issued against "Names" -- investors whose capital underpins the market.
Lloyd's members who did not accept the R&amp;R settlement or did so without paying in full, still owe Lloyd's over 600 million pounds ($970 million).
Whilst a significant amount of this is uncollectable Lloyd's was "absolutely determined to recover as much debt as we can, in the shortest possible time", said Ron Sandler the market's chief executive.
The post-reconstruction solvency return showed a margin of total assets over total liabilities of 4.7 billion pounds, exceeding the statutory margin of solvency by more than five times.
The Corporation of Lloyd's contributed 486.4 million pounds to the settlement. The Corporation's balance sheet shows a deficiency of 239 million pounds, reflecting a 292 liability connected with the settlement, offset by 53 million pounds of net assets.
The creation of five new business units at the beginning of this year was designed to make the Corporation of Lloyd's more transparent and accountable to those whom it served and to promote more commercial pricing mechanisms and management disciplines, said Sandler.
Progress in the implementation of the reorganisation had been encouraging and business plans for each were to be published shortly. ($ = 0.618 British Pounds)
The Lloyd's insurance market's "annual venture" - where syndicates are formed anew every year - has been criticised as costly and damaging to competitiveness in a report by accountants KPMG published on Friday.
The report will form part of the submission by the Lloyd's Corporate Capital Association (LCCA) to the Lloyd's Syndicate Structure working party which is weighing the pros and cons of different capital structures for syndicates.
But it will also be seen as another attack on the position of unlimited liability Names, the traditional backers of the 300 year-old insurance market, who fear they are being eased out of the market in favour of corporate investors.
Only last month, Lloyd's put forward proposals to raise the amount of capital Names must pledge to back their underwriting activities.
That move is likely to reduce further the number of Names at Lloyd's, already at 20-year lows.
Corporate capital, first introduced in 1994, now accounts for 44 percent of the market's total capacity.
KPMG puts the direct costs of the annual venture at 117 million pounds ($190 million) in an average year, more than 10 percent of the underwriting profits of the insurance market in the 1994 year of account.
In addition, it argues that the indirect costs involved clearly inhibit Lloyd's syndicates in critical areas such as long-term planning, capital investment and reinsurance purchasing.
This, it says, will increasingly restrict Lloyd's competitiveness internationally in areas such as the provision of multi-year insurance products and compliance with overseas regulatory standards.
KPMG suggests that 58 million pounds could be saved by the abolition of members' agents who represent Names' interests. The Corporation of Lloyd's annual costs could be reduced by around 41 million pounds, it says.
Antony Haynes, chairman of the LCCA which represents corporate investors, said the KPMG report "speaks for itself."
"Both traditional names and corporate capital providers are seeing a substantial part of their underwriting returns being eroded by a market practice of the annual venture...," Haynes said.
But Robert Miller, spokesman for the Association of Lloyd's Members (ALM) which represents around 8,000 Names, rejected the report's conclusions.
"We are doubtful about the apportionment of the costs. Secondly what it has completely failed to take into account is that the Names significantly pay for the costs of the annual venture," said Miller.
Names were willing to pay for the annual venture, he argued, because it allowed them to receive an income stream unrelated to other investments such as shares and to diversify their portfolios.
The Lloyd's syndicate structure working party is due to publish its conclusions soon.
It is one of a number set up to examine the key strategic issues facing Lloyd's which will report by the end of May.
The findings will be pulled together to develop the blueprint for the market's new business plan, expected to be published in June or July.
Supporters of the present system argue that a shift to corporate capital will damage the flexibility and entrepreneurial spirit of the Lloyd's market.
ALM has commissioned its own independent study on the way capital is provided to Lloyd's syndicates which will provide the basis of its submission to the working party. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
British regulators on Tuesday moved to speed up compensation payments to people who were vitims of pension misselling by banks and insurance companies in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
The Personal Investment Authority (PIA) which regulates the pension industry announced it had set firms new targets for completing the review of outstanding cases.
In an effort to reduce delays, regulators also laid out criteria for the use of legally binding "guarantees" to reassure victims they would not lose out.
Individual timetables have been set for the 24 companies with the greatest number of cases while all other regulated firms will be required to have completed 90 percent of priority cases by the end of December 1997 and the remainder by December 1998.
The 24 companies, which are responsible for three quarters of cases, include household names such as Prudential Corp, Legal &amp; General, Norwich Union, Allied Dunbar and Royal Sun Alliance.
They have been given individual deadlines for settling priority cases ranging from July to the end of the year.
Those have been set by agreement between the regulator and the firms.
The remainder of all cases must be completed before the end of 1998 and the PIA warned that failure to meet the timetables would lead to disciplinary action.
The guarantee system outlined today is intended to enable firms to settle cases more quickly.
Under it, someone missold a personal pension would be guaranteed that if it were not possible for them to rejoin their old company scheme, the insurer would provide benefits mirroring those they would have received had they remained in their occupational schemes.
As many as 1-1/2 million people may have been wrongly advised by the financial services industry to take out personal pensions instead of staying in occupational schemes.
A review was launched in 1994 but figures released today show that so far only 50,300 assessments have been completed out of the 570,000 cases for review.
Around 102 million pounds ($165.4 million) has been paid out in 12,650 cases where redress has been accepted, just over 8,000 pounds apiece.
Sir Andrew Large, chairman of Britain's top regulatory body the Securities and Investments Board (SIB), said it was time for the excuses to stop.
"Firms can be under no illusion that results are expected from them, and expected soon," said Large.
"Last November I said that the front line regulators would agree targets with their firms. I welcome the fact that these targets have now been set."
The move to crack down on perceived foot-dragging by firms guilty of the misselling comes just 24 hours before the 20 worst offenders have been summoned to a meeting at the Treasury to discuss the slow progress made in settling outstanding cases.
Treasury economic secretary Helen Liddell is reported to want to hammer out the quickest solution possible.
The SIB originally promised to resolve the issue by the end of last year but difficulties in gathering and processing information have proved particularly time consuming.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) welcomed today's move and said at most senior levels in the industry there was an absolute determination to complete the review as quickly as possible.
The review is estimated to be costing the industry some 250 million pounds in administration alone.
The cost of redress has already been reserved by pension providers, the ABI said, but the industry recognised that the current uncertainty needed to be resolved quickly so individuals knew exactly where they stood. ($ = 0.616 British Pounds)
The strength of the British pound hit results at Sedgwick Group Plc on Tuesday as the international insurance broker reported a fall in profits in the first three months of the year.
Over the quarter, pre-tax profits slipped by 1.8 million pounds ($2.9 million) to 43.5 million pounds, with the strong pound knocking 3.4 million pounds off the figures.
The company also announced it was seeking a listing for its shares on the New York Stock Exchange with trading expected to begin in June.
Chairman Sax Riley said that with 40 percent of the group's business emanating from North America, the listing represented a logical step.
Sedgwick's results followed a similar performance by British rival Willis Corroon last week which blamed the pound's strength for a five percent fall in first quarter profits.
Excluding the impact of the currency Sedgwick pre-tax profits were up four percent on last year.
The results were described as "encouraging" by Riley given the adverse effect of exchange rates and an increasingly weak insurance rating environment.
Shares in Sedgwick firmed slightly on the results which broadly matched analyst expectations.
By early afternoon, the shares were trading at 130-1/2 pence, an increase of two pence on the day.
"There were no real surprises. Sterling was factored in and there were no shocks there at all," commented one analyst.
Merger talk continued to be in the background, he added, but there was no indication that there was any substance to continued speculation about a possible tie-up with British rival Willis.
A series of mergers among rival firms has left both Sedgwick and willis trailing far behind industry giants Aon Corp and Marsh &amp; McLennan of the U.S.
That has prompted speculation the two British companies may pursue a similar strategy in the drive for cost savings.
"The brokers are doing all the right things except making money. Noble Lowndes is doing well - that is one part of the business geared to grow. It is nice to see they're pushing hard at fee-based services. The rest of the business still looks pretty dull," said the analyst.
There is an acceptance that rates would not recover in the short-term and that Sedgwick was not budgeting on assumptions of a hardening in rates, he said.
Sedgwick's operational strategy has been focused on lessening the group's dependence on the underwriting cycle by increasing fee-earning consultancy business.
It has also concentrated on broadening its business base and keeping a tight control on costs
The company was looking to extend worldwide consultancy and outsourcing activities, said Riley, and would continue to look for new initiatives aimed at additional profit improvement and cost containment.
"We are confident that this strategy will enable us to make the most of our global network and brand, and to increase shareholder value," he added.
The planned joint venture with Nikols, Italy's largest broker and the combination of the two companies' businesses in southern Europe and Latin America created opportunities for significant profit, he said.
The plans are part of Sedgwick's strategy of strengthening its global operations and it was exploring further opportunities to develop its presence in continental Europe, it said. ($ = 0.616 British Pounds)
A sharp fall in weather-related losses lifted British insurer General Accident Plc to a record first quarter on Tuesday.
But a disappointing shortfall in the Scottish-based group's net asset value (NAV) saw the shares slip despite the strong operating performance.
Operating profits for the first three months of the year more than doubled to 114 million pounds ($184.8 million) from 55 million pounds last year.
"They are terrific operating figures but the NAV was a long way short of what the market was expecting," said Credit Lyonnais insurance analyst David Hudson.
The disappointing NAV reflected the company's policy of switching out of equities and into bonds. That reduced NAV growth because of the absence of unrealised gains but increased operating profits because the higher yield comes through in investment income.
The company's NAV of 723 pence per share was some 30 pence below market expectations, said Hudson, and the shares slipped five pence to 958 pence by late morning.
"It's a question of trying to weigh up the fact that profit expectations will be raised but NAV expectations have been disappointed," said Hudson.
The strong operating performance, if repeated across the industry as a whole would raise the prospect of a prolonged downturn in the insurance cycle, with rates remaining under pressure.
General Accident described trading as "competitive" over the quarter and while it had implemented premium increases in personal and commercial motor classes, elsewhere rates were static.
The focus going forward was on maintaining the improvement in its underwriting performance, chief executive Bob Scott told Reuters.
"We've seen growth in original currencies of about four percent in the quarter and we've got to keep that pushing ahead," said Scott.
Worldwide underwriting results improved by 50 million pounds over the period while weather costs fell by 30 million pounds - four million pounds in the UK and 20 million pounds in the U.S.
The company maintained underwriting profitability in the UK while underlying trends in the U.S. and Canada improved.
In Britain, the first of a series of rating increases in personal motor planned for 1997 of 3.2 percent was implemented on April 1. Further rises are being considered.
Commercial rates were increased by eight percent.
"All the evidence is that private motor rates are moving up. The Automobile Association (AA) survey indicates they're definitely moving after a three or four year period when they've been in decline. Commercial motor is following a similar pattern," Scott said.
"There are some signs on content that rate increases may be being thought about but generally the weather has been good and the homeowners account hasn't suffered unduly."
But General Accident had seen a 50 percent increase in subsidence claims to two million pounds, although it was too early to say whether it was going to be as bad as it was in 1991, he said.
After absorbing the integration costs of Provident Mutual in 1996, life profits were up 45 percent to 32 million pounds.
Sales of life and pension products were up 9.5 percent overall with the profitability of new business continuing to grow.
New UK single premium business grew by 18 percent to 253 million pounds.
"We're concentrating on writing profitable new business in life. Margins are under pressure in every area of the insurance business, life insurance as well, but we've got a good franchise ...we can grow strongly organically we believe," said Scott.
Investment earnings in the quarter fell to 133 from 135 million pounds. ($ = 0.616 British Pounds)
British composite insurer Commercial Union Plc on Wednesday reported a strong rise in first quarter profits, helped by a sharp fall in U.S. weather claims.
Pre-tax operating profits rose to 102 million pounds ($166.4 million), up from 83 million last year.
The results were in line with expectations but the shares lost ground after a recent good run.
Forecasts were likely to be left largely unchanged, analysts said, and by mid-afternoon Commercial Union shares had slipped 13-1/2 pence to 736p.
The strength of the pound held back headline figures and, excluding the impact of sterling, profits advanced 46 percent. On the same basis profits and new business sales in the group's life business rose 25 percent.
General insurance profits increased to 67 million pounds, up three million pounds over 1996 despite a reduction in profits in Britain due to increased competition.
The company is set to unveil details of its strategy for the UK general insurance business next month.
A fall in weather losses helped U.S. results while France and Australia also saw profit increases.
Weather claims in the U.S. fell 23 million pounds over the period to six million pounds after the milder winter.
In Britain, weather costs were broadly flat.
But a dry start to the year and increased turnover in the housing market combined to push up subsidence costs.
Claims notifications were up 11 percent while costs increased to 11 million pounds from seven million pounds.
Echoing comments made by General Accident which reported on Tuesday, Commercial Union said British general insurance rates remained competitive though there was evidence of firming in certain classes of business, particularly motor.
U.S. general insurance was also competitive and average rate increases there had broadly matched inflation.
France was seeing rises in certain classes but areas such as motor cover were becoming more difficult, the company said.
Life profits over the quarter increased to 62 million pounds from 58 million pounds last year, with strong performances from the UK, the Netherlands and France.
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, new life, pensions and investment sales rose by 25 percent.
With the acquisition of 73 percent of French life assurer Societe d'Epargne Viagere (SEV) in April, life operations now account for around 50 percent of total group premium income.
The growth of the life business, part of a long-standing strategy, is set to continue for the foreseeable future.
The company hopes to take advantage of future changes in welfare provision in Britain and continental Europe.
Demographic changes putting pressure on spending on state pensions, sickness and accident benefits is expected to provide a growing number of opportunities for private providers in years to come.
Growth is likely to be organic but the company remains open-minded about acquisitions.
"If a suitable opportunity arose we would certainly consider it... but we're not actively seeking acquisitions," said finance director Peter Foster.
Sales at the company's French life operations were expected to remain dull for the rest of this year and possibly early into 1998 as the reorganisation of the sales force continued.
First quarter new sales figure in France, where new single premium business fell 16 percent, disappointed many.
The reorganisation, a rise in interest rates and strong 1996 first quarter comparisons were among the factors blamed for the shortfall.
Commercial union continues to eye further opportunities in eastern Europe after the success of its Polish operations and will start writing business in the Czech Republic later this year. ($ = 0.613 British Pounds)
A Chinese ideologue known for his strictly orthodox Marxist views denied on Tuesday that he was the author of two essays critical of China's reforms.
Deng Liqun, 81, a former Communist Party propaganda chief and secretary to Chairman Mao Zedong, said the author of two articles that have become known as "The 10,000 Word Essay" was Li Yanming.
"I didn't write the essay, it was Li Yanming," Deng told reporters. He did not further identify Li Yanming and gave no Asked whether he supported Li's views in "The 10,000 Word Essay" that has sparked widespread behind-the-scenes debate, he smiled and shrugged and said: "He wrote what was on his mind."
Deng was attending an economic summit in Beijing that was assessing the business climate in China, with a heavy emphasis on the successes of the reform programme launched in 1979 by Deng Xiaoping to eliminate stultifying Stalinist-style planning in favour of market forces.
Asked if he agreed with issues under debate at the conference, Deng adopted the officially-sanctioned public party line: "Of course. China is a very big country, it has a lot of potential but it also has a lot of problems to be solved."
Several of the speakers at the conference called for tougher efforts to reform China's ailing state-owned enterprises, which "The 10,000 Word Essay" warns are suffering at the expense of private enterprise.
China's propaganda tsars recently suspended a magazine and banned articles by a leading bankruptcy expert after a lengthy behind-doors debate on the essay erupted into the public eye.
The ban prompted an open letter by a writer in Beijing questioning whether China's propaganda officials were opposed to economic reform and whether they backed the leadership of state president and Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin.
The Press and Publications Administration, under the party's powerful Propaganda Department, suspended publication of the Economic Work Monthly, based in southwestern Guizhou province, in August, said sources familiar with the magazine.
The suspension followed the magazine's publication of an article critical of the privately circulated 10,000-word essay, which also urges a return to the class struggle espoused by Mao.
Western diplomats and Chinese analysts have described a literary and cultural freeze in recent months amid a crackdown by propaganda tsars on publications and authors that dare to break away from a stultifying diet of state-approved fare.
The president of the outspoken Beijing Youth Daily is to be replaced soon by a more conservative editor.
The clampdown has been fuelled by a call for "spiritual civilisation" -- a communist watchword for orthodox Marxist values -- as the theme for a party plenum scheduled for later this month, the analysts said.
Party chief Jiang is said to have distanced himself from the essay at the annual session of the National People's Congress, or parliament, last March, when he reportedly said: "Some people say I support the 10,000-word essay, isn't that underestimating me too much?"
British composite insurer Commercial Union Plc posted a strong rise in first quarter profits on Wednesday, helped by a sharp fall in U.S. weather claims.
Chief executive John Carter described the company's prospects as "excellent" but the shares trimmed 10-1/2 pence to 739 pence after the figures, which were in the middle of analysts' forecast range.
Pre-tax operating profits rose to 102 million pounds ($166.4 million), up from 83 million pounds last year.
Excluding the negative impact of sterling, profits were up 46 percent. On the same basis profits and new business sales at the group's worldwide life business rose 25 percent.
Net assets per ordinary share were up 23 pence over the quarter to 568 pence.
Echoing comments made by General Accident which reported on Tuesday, Commercial Union said the rating environment remained competitive in UK general insurance though there was evidence of firming in certain classes of business.
A fall in weather losses helped U.S. results and France and Australia also saw increases in profits.
Weather claims in the U.S. fell 23 million pounds over the period to 6 million pounds as a result of the milder winter.
Finance director Peter Foster dismissed recent concerns about exposure to possible U.S. tobacco-related insurance claims.
"Commercial Union has very limited exposure to tobacco. We believe our policies have clear exclusion clauses and our exposure is not significant," Foster told Reuters.
In the UK, weather costs were broadly flat.
But the incidence of subsidence, a result of the dry start to the year, rose over the quarter. Claims were up 11 percent while the cost increased to 11 million pounds from seven million pounds in the first quarter last year.
General insurance profits rose to 67 million pounds, up three million pounds over 1996 but continuing competition in the UK reduced general insurance profits there.
"The UK rating environment remains competitive though there is evidence of rates trying to move upwards - particularly in motor classes," Foster said.
"Other rates are relatively stable on the personal lines side. On commercial lines the market remains competitive but the rate of reduction being seen has actually declined."
In the U.S. general insurance also remained competitive with overall average rate increases broadly in line with inflation.
France was seeing rises in certain classes but areas such as motor cover were becoming more difficult, said Foster.
Asked about disappointing first quarter new sales in France where new single premium business fell 16 percent, Foster said he was confident about the quality of the business and the prospects for the future.
French first quarter 1996 figures had been very strong and a rise in interest rates and reorganisation of the sales force had not helped comparisons, he said.
With the acquisition of 73 percent of SEV, a French life assurer in April, life operations now account for around 50 percent of total group premium income.
This is likely to continue to rise in the future, said Foster.
"Life business tends to grow at a faster rate than general and we expect that to continue in the future. A lot of the growth will be organic. We can achieve a pretty high level of organic growth but if a suitable opportunity arose we would certainly consider it," he said.
Life profits over the quarter increased to 62 million pounds from 58 million pounds last year, with strong performances from the UK, the Netherlands and France.
The company had an open mind about a life acquisition, said Foster, but it was not actively seeking them.
($ = 0.613 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London is to publish recommendations that the insurance market be externally regulated for the first time in its 300-year history in proposals to be published on Friday.
According to sources at Lloyd's, a working party set up in 1996 to consider market regulation will recommend that it come under the auspices of Britain's top financial watchdog, the Securities and Investments Board (SIB).
As well as recommending external oversight, specific proposals will be put forward on how regulation is organised, the sources said.
Any plans will have to be approved by the new Labour government, but if adopted they would put an end to Lloyd's current system of self-regulation.
The changes would require amendments to the Insurance Companies Acts and the Financial Services Act (1986).
David Gittings, Lloyd's director of regulation, said in January that he would be "surprised" if the review did not recommend some sort of external overview.
The now-ruling Labour party said in the run-up to this month's general election it favoured making regulation accountable to the Department of Trade &amp; Industry (DTI) and SIB rather to the Council of Lloyd's, as at present.
The new government is expected to carry out a thorough review of all financial services regulation in coming months. That is likely to include Lloyd's.
While the DTI currently regulates Lloyd's solvency requirements, it is not subject to external regulation on protection of members' interests or the operation of a transparent market.
A rescue package last year saved Lloyd's from collapse after the huge losses it incurred between 1988 and 1992.
The review of the market's regulation was set in motion last October.
The panel included representatives from other regulatory organisations as well as from Lloyd's. The DTI had a 'watching brief' on the panel and the SIB was represented in addition to members from the regulated financial services community.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) on Thursday cautioned the new Labour government against reducing tax credits on dividends or lowering incentives to pension provision in its first budget.
It also called on Labour to use the budget, expected in June, to encourage long-term savings and warned it against changes in the tax system which would undermine consumer confidence.
Reducing the level of tax credits on dividends would hit Personal Equity Plans (PEPs) and charities as well as pension business, said the ABI.
It would also lead to an increased imbalance between the tax treatment of interest and dividends, it said.
Advance corporation tax (ACT) is payable by British tax resident companies on dividends but can be offset against their mainstream corporation tax liability.
Currently, institutions such as pension funds pay no tax and are able to generate extra income by claiming back the ACT paid by companies which distribute dividends net of basic tax.
Because the Labour party has ruled out changes to income tax, it is widely believed to be considering reducing the credit for corporation tax paid to non-taxpaying recipients of dividends, including pension funds, to help meet spending plans.
The Association's director general Mark Boleat said its budget representations aimed to help the government's commitment to encourage savings and develop the partnership between public and private provision.
"Adequate pension provision and savings are essential for everyone and it is vital that the tax system should be targeted at encouraging this and without undue complexity," said Boleat.
According to the ABI, more people could be encouraged to start or increase levels of pension savings through simplifying the pension contribution rules and introducing greater flexibility for pension schemes to cover long-term care and other forms of provision.
It also advised the introduction of savings accounts with tax treatment along PEP lines and extending the qualifying status for life insurance policies.
Restricting tax relief on pension contributions to the basic rate of income tax would make pension savings less attractive and could lead to a transfer of funds into more tax favoured arrangements such as PEPs, it said.
Similarly, removing tax relief on private medical insurance for the over 60s would substantially reduce take-up of insurance by older individuials and increase pressure on National Health spending.
The ABI also urged the government not to raise the  current rate of insurance premium tax, saying it would represent a threat to prudent protection.
It said if individuals bore risks themselves rather than insure they could be unable to meet the resultant financial liabilities and called for the eventual abolition of it.
Most non-life premiums are taxed at a rate of four percent with some classes of business such as travel insurance anbd extended warranties facing rates of 17-1/2 percent
"It is a regressive tax in its effect and hits hardest those in tne poorer sectors of the community who can least afford an unexpected loss," said Boleat.
-- Simon Cowell, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Lloyd's of London confirmed on Friday it is to abandon 300 years of self-regulation and recommend supervision be handed over to an external authority.
The insurance market's ruling body, the Council of Lloyd's, has endorsed the findings of a working party set up in October 1996 to review the existing regulatory system.
The proposals include bringing Lloyd's more into line with other regulated markets and narrowing the gap in treatment between it and insurance companies.
The Council would retain day-to-day responsibility for regulation but be subject to external oversight by the Securities and Investments Board (SIB) and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI).
Lloyd's is to ask the government to amend both the Insurance Companies Acts and the Financial Services Act to bring in the additional external accountability.
It has yet to discuss the proposals with the Labour government which is expected to carry out a thorough review of all financial services regulation in coming months. That review is likely to include Lloyd's.
The government has previously indicated that it favours centralising financial regulation into one body rather than the current division of responsibility between Self-Regulatory Organisations supervised by the SIB.
Today's proposals would effectively make the Council something akin to an SRO and so could be overtaken by events if the government goes ahead with the shake-up of regulation.
The changes themselves, if approved, could take up to two years to implement.
In the meantime the report suggests Lloyd's mirror best practice elsewhere in the financial sector with the assistance of a representative from the SIB.
A spokesman said the SIB would give careful consideration to the proposals but that the legislation needed to implement them was a matter for the government.
The report says powers enabling the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry to assume direct responsibility for supervising Lloyd's members if they fail solvency tests should be widened to bring them more into line with those relating to insurance companies.
This would include allowing the DTI to sequester the assets and freeze the bank accounts of Lloyd's members if they were to default.
External regulators would set out the regulatory principles, approve the market's rules and review and monitor the Council's performance.
Lloyd's said such a move would reinforce confidence that the interests of policyholders and members are sufficiently safeguarded and that the Council is objectively discharging its responsibility to ensure a properly regulated and solvent market.
Sir Alan Hardcastle, chairman of Lloyd's regulatory Board who headed up the review, said it was in the collective interest that the market was "solvent, fair, stable and clean".
Other recommendations backed by the Council include cutting the size of the present Regulatory Board from 18 to 12 with one third drawn from the market, one third from external members of the Council and one third independent members.
Regulatory complexity is also to be addressed together with a review of Lloyd's rule book of bylaws and regulations.
A greater proportion of regulatory costs would in future be recovered from firms rather than wholly from members' subscriptions as at present.
The 14-member working group was set up last year in the wake of the 'Reconstruction and Renewal' (R&amp;R) rescue package which saved the market from collapse threatened by huge losses run up between 1988 and 1992.
The panel included representatives from within Lloyd's and the wider financial services industry.
British composite insurer Royal &amp; Sun Alliance Group Plc on Tuesday gave the green light to a planned share buyback as the company reported a sharp increase in profits for the first quarter of 1997.
But in the absence of any major positive surprises, shares gave only a muted reaction to the news, slipping back 7-1/2 pence to 482 pence pence by late morning.
Pre-tax operating profits for the first three months of the year rose 24 percent to 195 million pounds ($320.6 million), helped by a fall in weather related costs in the United States.
Royal Sun said it remained on target to achieve at least the 175 million pounds of cost savings identified at the time of last year's merger and with the results now out of the way the buyback of five percent of the shares approved at the annual meeting would go ahead.
"We're now in a position that brokers can start to move into the market to do the buyback. How long it will take is just a matter of timing and it's something we're discussing closely with our brokers," chief executive Richard Gamble told Reuters.
While a 34 million pound fall in weather-related costs boosted U.S. general business profits to 51 million pounds, a near two thirds rise in UK subsidence took the shine off the British results.
The 10 million pound rise in subsidence more than accounted for the five million pound drop in British profits to 50 million pounds.
"Subsidence is a worry. The good news is the recent rain but it has been one of driest winters on record following on from other dry periods," said Gamble.
"We do anticipate subsidence is going to be with us for some time to come but that is being built into the cost of household insurance."
Analysts said views on the stock largely depended on assessments of the pace of progress in integrating operations.
Repeating a "hold" recommendation on the stock, Tim Young at brokerage SocGen warned it may drag out longer than some expect.
"It is a huge task integrating the two groups and that makes us cautious for the short term," Young said. "I find it difficult to see how it can operate as a truly integrated unit before 1999."
At Lehman Brothers, analyst Rob Procter said good news on the integration progress should emerge through the next 12 months.
"They are likely to beat their cost savings targets and the share buyback could be the first of many," Procter said.
Following last year's six billion pound merger of Royal Insurance with Sun Alliance Insurance, Gamble said the reduction in staff numbers would accelerate in 1997.
By the end of March some 1,500 people had left the company and together with properties vacated, annualised savings are so far running at 44 million pounds.
The merger had not affected the group's ability to pick up new business nor retention levels which, said Gamble, were holding up to expected levels.
Echoing remarks made by competitors last week, the company said the rating environment had become more realistic with a succesful four percent increase in motor market rates implemented last autumn.
Royal Sun is to continue to keep an eye on opportunities for small acquisitions such as the recent 46 million pound purchase of Prudential's Italian life assurance and pensions business, but is not actively pursuing larger acquisitions.
"We're not aggressively in the market. Money is not burning a hole in our pocket - that's the indication given by the share
Around three million members of British insurer Norwich Union will be able to buy shares at a 10 percent discount in a planned offering ahead of the company's flotation on June 16.
Norwich is to raise 1.75 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) of fresh capital in the offering and up to a further 670 million pounds to fund cash payments to its half million overseas members.
The company has also increased its estimate of the price of the new shares.
They are now expected to be sold at between 240 pence and 290 pence. The group's brokers Kleinwort Benson had previously given a guide price of between 220 pence and 265 pence.
Members of the insurance group, Britain's third largest with seven million customers worldwide, are to be offered extra shares at a fixed discount of 25 pence.
A member is someone who holds a Norwich life insurance, pension or annuity policy. Holders of non-life policies such as house contents or car insurance do not qualify.
Members will also receive around 1.3 billion free shares worth around 3.4 billion pounds under flotation plans already announced.
Under the new forecasts, the value of the 300 shares minimum allocation to with-profits policyholders will increase by at least 60 pounds and could be worth as much as 870 pounds.
Members will receive additional shares based on the value and length of time they have held their policies.
The company said it expected to be valued at between 4.9 and 5.6 billion pounds on flotation which would put it in the FTSE 100 index of Britain's largest quoted companies.
Norwich chairman George Paul said the company was keen to encourage members to continue to participate in the future of the group.
"I hope that they will take advantage of this opportunity to buy further shares at a 25p discount," said Paul.
Alan Bridgewater, Norwich's chief executive, said they were expecting widespread interest in the offer.
Norwich members wishing to take part in the public offering will have to apply for a minimum of 400 pounds worth of shares. There will be an upper ceiling on applications by members of 100,000 pounds.
At least 800 million pounds worth of shares have been reserved to meet applications from members. This may be increased by clawing back 400 million pounds worth of shares from the public offering in the event of strong demand.
The final members' offer price will be announced on June 15 and will be used to determine how many shares succesful applicants receive.
Mini-prospectus and application forms are to be sent to members today. The deadline for receipt of applications is June 10.
Around 1.5 billion pounds of the money raised will go into the policyholders' life fund while the excess, less the 120 million pound cost of flotation, will be used for corporate purposes. ($ = 0.604 British Pounds)
Insurance market Lloyd's of London will have to wait to find out the implications for it of Tuesday's announcement of a shake-up in Britain's financial services regulatory system.
No decision has yet been reached about where Lloyd's will fit into the new regulatory regime which will see the existing system of self-regulatory organisations (SROs) swept away and replaced by a Securities and Investments Board (SIB) with tougher new powers and an extended remit.
Only last week the insurance market announced it favoured giving up 300 years of self regulation for supervision by an external authority, specifically the SIB.
A Treasury spokesman described the Labour government as "sympathetic" to the proposals but said that no decision had yet been taken.
"There are a number of areas - Lloyds, building societies, insurance more generally - which are still under discussion as to how they are going to be handled under these new arrangements. We'll have to wait to see how those discussions proceed," said the spokesman.
Lloyd's has yet to talk to the government about its proposals which would bring it more into line with other regulated markets and narrow the gap in treatment between it and insurance companies.
Under the plans the Council would retain day-to-day responsibility for regulation but be subject to external oversight by the SIB and Department of Trade and Industry.
The changes would need legislation to be brought forward to amend both the Insurance Companies Acts and the Financial Services Act.
The government is likely to want all parties involved to take part in discussions and a Lloyd's spokesman said it would be "happy to do so".
The Treasury may well take over regulation of insurance companies from the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) under the Labour government's plans for sweeping reform of Britain's financial services, industry observers said on Thursday.
Spokesmen for both the DTI and Treasury said that no decision had yet been made on the changes, but that this could form part of the new government's shake-up of financial regulation.
Such a move would bring insurance into line with the rest of the financial services sector.
"If the Treasury is responsible for all other aspects of regulation of insurance it would be only sensible," said one industry executive.
The steady erosion of the boundaries between insurance and banking industries has also increased the pressure to bring the supervisory regimes closer together.
Many banks are beginning to offer insurance products while insurers are increasingly providing services such as savings facilities, personal loans and mortgages.
At present the DTI regulates insurance companies,  ensuring they are financially sound and meet solvency requirements. Regulation of products is separate.
General insurance is regulated by an industry code of practice and life products by the Financial Services Act, which is to be replaced by fresh legislation arising out of framework reforms announced by Chancellor Gordon Brown on Tuesday.
While British insurers may have given a cautious welcome to the announcement of the regulatory shake-up, they have, as yet, little information on how far the government will go. But many in the industry admit the logic of doing away with the current multi-tiered system.
The creation of a single statutory body, a Securities and Invesments Board (SIB) with enhanced powers and extended remit, could reduce costs, improve transparency and clarify uncertainties which have developed under the present set-up where insurers may be regulated by several different watchdogs.
It could also give a much needed boost to public confidence, after a series of scandals typified by the pension mis-selling of the late 1980s and early 1990s which have undermined public perceptions of the sector.
Britain's financial services market operates on the principle of "buyer beware", with regulators focusing on the solvency of practitioners.
The market is left to regulate product suitability, with consumers having to shop around for a good deal. As the pensions mis-selling scandal showed, this was a less than perfect system from the customer's point of view.
Both the SIB and the Personal Investments Authority (PIA), the self regulatory organisation currently responsible for the industry, have come in for severe criticism of their handling of the scandal.
Hundreds of thousands of people were wrongly advised to take out personal pensions rather than stay in company or other occupational schemes and many have yet to receive compensation.
Underlining the problems that have beset the sector in recent years a leaked draft report from the SIB on Wednesday accused Britain's largest life insurer, Prudential Corp of mis-selling financial products and wrongly advising clients to put money into one of its most popular products, The Prudential Savings Account.
While insurers acknowledge the benefits of dealing with a single regulator, there are fears that the government may introduce tighter controls on products and selling.
Only last week, Britain's National Consumer Council called for urgent and wholesale reform of insurance law to "drag it into the 21st century and redress the balance for consumers".
A Treasury spokesman said it was too early to say whether detailed legislation on the selling of products would be included in the reform.
With the private sector likely to play a larger part in the provision of pensions in the future, tighter regulation would seem to fit in with the government's long term plans, said industry observers.
Nearly eight million members of Britain's largest mortgage lender, the Halifax Building Society, are in-line to pocket hundreds of pounds more than originally expected when it floats on the London stock market on June 2.
If betting at London financial bookmakers is near the mark, the basic handout of 200 shares will be worth around 1,400 pounds ($2,270), way ahead of predictions when the flotation was first announced.
The average payout would be 2,170 pounds, nearly 900 pounds more than the Halifax's initial forecasts in January.
Bookmakers, City Index and IG Index, are quoting the Halifax closing price on its first day of trading at 695-705 pence.
That would value the group which converts to a bank on flotation at over 17-1/2 billion pounds and rank it among Britain's largest dozen companies.
In January, the Halifax estimated the shares would be priced at between 390 and 450 pence and in April put a 415 pence 'floor' value on the shares sold on flotation through its free dealing service.
"We opened the Halifax at 660 to 670 pence yesterday. It was very difficult to find people to sell it at that price and it looks as though it's going to be dragged a bit higher," said IG Index's Peter Hetherington.
Around two-thirds of Halifax members will receive the basic 200 shares windfall. Members will receive additional shares based on the level of savings.
The maximum allocation for those who can claim for a mortgage account and savings account will now be worth just under 10,000 pounds.
Forecasts of the size of handout have risen steadily since the original announcement of the flotation.
A downward revision in the number of qualifying members gave an initial boost to the figure and the performance of financial stocks since has helped drag the price higher.
The success of the Alliance and Leicester flotation in April has added to expectations of strong demand for Halifax shares. Alliance shares rose sharply on the first days of trading as institutional investors scrambled for stock.
That experience and the subsequent strength of the shares is likely to tempt many Halifax members to hold onto their handouts, at least initially.
"On fundamentals it's unlikely it's worth seven pounds but built into that price is a big chunk of scarcity premium," said one banking analyst.
"The concern is that there isn't going to be a lot of supply around and whatever there is will come out largely in one auction. That's where institutions are going to get their stock ... and they'll only get one shot at it." ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
Britain's Scottish Amicable on Thursday defended the multi-million pound fees paid to banking advisers as part of its 2.87 billion pound ($4.7 billion) takeover by life insurer Prudential Corp.
The comments came as ScotAm, based in the Scottish city of Stirling, published details of the proposed transfer of business to the Pru and benefits to policyholders as part of the acquistion plans.
A policyholder circular outlining the proposals will be mailed to members over the next week. The plans have to be approved by voting members at a special general meeting to be held on June 27.
Gavin Stewart, general manger of the Scottish-based mutual insurer, admitted the cost of the deal, estimated at 34 million pounds, was a lot of money but said it was important to get things right.
It was always expensive to demutualise, he said, and had to be seen in the context of similar moves by building socities.
Norwich Union recently put the costs of its  plans to drop mutual status and its five billion pound flotation next month at 120 million pounds.
The amounts paid by ScotAm covered not only advisory fees for bankers SBC Warburg but all the logistical costs of posting circulars to more than a million policyholders and holding special meetings, said Stewart.
Around 1.1 million members stand to receive cash payments averaging 550 pounds and a total package of 1,450 pounds once additional bonuses to policies are taken into account.
All qualifying with-profits members will receive a fixed cash payment of 250 pounds with a further variable amount based on the size and duration of the policy.
Assuming ScotAm gets the necessary approval of three-quarters of members' who vote and the go-ahead from the Court of Session in Edinburgh, it hopes to pay cash and bonuses shortly after the completion of the deal on September 30.
"We're convinced this is an excellent deal for policyholders. 600 million pounds is being paid out in cash and one billion pounds as added value in bonuses on to policies - about half now and half added to policies when they pay out," said Stewart.
"We think policyholders when they see the deal will recognise the value and will be pleased to vote for it."
In all, the cash and bonus payments amount to 1.6 billion pounds. In addition, the Pru is to inject 1.3 billion pounds of financial support to enable increased investment freedom for the ScotAm with profits fund, enhancing the potential for better returns.
ScotAm policies are to be transferred to the Pru and held in a dedicated fund, serviced from ScotAm's headquarters.
The Pru beat off rival offers from Abbey National and Australian Mutual Provident (AMP) to win control of ScotAm and reinforce its position as Britain's number one fund manager.
The poilcyholders circular will lay out details of the rejected Abbey and AMP bids.
ScotAm chairman Sandy Stewart said the bidding process had produced a high value for the business and a full distribution of the assets in the with-profits fund to with-profits policyholders.
"The members of ScotAm now have the opportunity to vote for a package which will provide additional financial security and the prospect of improved future investment returns leading to enhanced payouts," said chairman Stewart. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
Insurance broker C.E. Heath announced late on Friday that senior management were in advanced talks about a possible buyout of the company for just under 100 million pounds ($163.7 million).
That would value the shares at 143 pence each, a premium of 63 percent over the day's opening price, Heath said shortly after the close of the stock market.
Management involved in the possible offer include group chief executive John Mackenzie Green, according to a source close to the talks.
Meanwhile, non-executive directors are considering the approach.
Over three million shares changed hands in the course of the day ahead of the late afternoon announcement. It was the unusually high stock activity which forced the company to release the news early, the source said.
The success of a bid hinges on fund management group PDFM, which owns 22 percent of Heath, Hambros, which holds 13 percent, Fidelity, with a 13 percent stake and Equitable Life with just under five percent.
In the past Heath was an underwriter, broker and computer services business.
The strategy over the last five years has been to sell underwriting businesses and demerge computer services leaving a pure, medium sized broker in the hope of making the company more attractive to investors.
Over the last year, however, the whole sector has been depressed with market conditions difficult as intense competition squeezed margins.
"Management launched a major reorganisation but the argument is that its very difficult to carry out a restructuring in the full glare of the market place," said the source.
Analysts said that a bid from another broker was a possibility but the difficulty was getting the right people to stay with the company.
"The main problem is that the company is the people...There would be other brokers who would be interested if they could get the right people to stay on board," said one.
"It's a tricky question -- do shareholders say you can't buy the company but allow them to continue to manage it?" ($ = 0.610 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London on Friday posted profits of over one billion pounds ($1.6 billion) for the second year running -- but warned that profits would fall for at least the next two years.
The insurance market, which last year only just succeeded in pushing through a rescue package after the billions of pounds of losses run up between 1988 and 1992, also said its future focus would be on customers.
"For too long, Lloyd's has been obsessed with its capital base. We need to get back to basics," said Chief executive Ron Sandler.
That meant providing customers with the best service and developing international trading opportunities, he said.
Lloyd's results are reported three years in arrears and for 1994, profits once again topped the billion pound mark at 1.01 billion pounds.
That fell just short of 1993's record level of 1.08 billion pounds and was in line with forecasts.
Corporate members, who were introduced to the market in 1994 following the near-disastrous losses which threatened to sink Lloyd's, will share in today's profits for the first time.
Corporate capital now provides some 44 percent of the market's capacity, a figure that is forecast to increase further in the future.
Sandler described the 1994 results as "extremely satisfactory" but said that there was no sign of an end to the downward trend in premium rates.
That decline, a product of competition in insurance markets worldwide, is expected to have a significant impact on profits in the next few years.
An aggregate of individual syndicate forecasts suggests profits will fall to around 900 million pounds in 1995 and 600 million in 1996.
The 1995 figure is ahead of projections made this time last year despite the adverse movement in currencies but the slide in rates is expected to take its toll in subsequent years.
Lloyd's chairman Sir David Rowland admitted 1997 results would be under pressure from the decline and said he hoped brokers would "sit on their hands when offered business at crazy rates".
The 1994 figures were a result of generally good market conditions and the exercise of much sharpened skills in pricing and the setting of terms by Lloyd's underwriters, he said.
They were also helped because of fewer catastrophes, he added, though currency effects reduced profits by around 100 million pounds.
Lloyd's returned to profit 12 months ago following five years of record losses totalling more than eight billion pounds.
Those losses were reinsured into a separate company, Equitas, a central plank in Lloyd's "reconstruction and renewal" plan which ensured the 300-year old insurance market's survival.
The reinsurance of 1992 and prior liabilities had transformed Lloyd's position, Sandler said, and clients could be confident that Lloyd's security ranked alongside the best in the world.
Final proposals for further strengthening the market's financial security which will include increasing the amount of capital that Names -- the traditional backers of the market -- have to put up to back their underwriting, are expected to be published next week.
Lloyd's is continuing its efforts to recover around 600 million pounds of debts owed by Names who have refused to meet their losses.
Rowland said it was impossible to give an estimate of how much Lloyd's thought it could collect, but said it would be a substantial sum of money.
Litigation in the U.S. and Britain was unlikely to prove problematic and the amount recovered would depend ultimately on the assets of the Names involved, he added. ($ = 0.610 British Pounds)
Britain's top financial regulator the Securities and Investments Board (SIB) on Thursday launched a 400,000 pound ($654,000) advertising campaign designed to heighten the public's awareness of the review into pensions mis-selling.
Under the banner, "Have You Lost Out On Your Pension?", the campaign seeks to underline the importance of the public playing its part in the review.
The advertisements will be carried in the national press between Thursday and Sunday this week.
The move has been timed to coincide with the mailing of questionnaires by firms to people who have potentially been mis-sold pensions.
"It is vital that investors respond to the questionnaire, even if they are unable to provide all the information asked for. Otherwise, their case cannot be resolved speedily," the SIB said in a statement.
Just two weeks ago regulators moved to speed up compensation payments to victims of pension misselling by banks and insurance companies in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Companies involved have been given an ultimatum to  settle outstanding cases in an effort to speed up the process and complete it by the end of next year.
As many as 1-1/2 million people may have been wrongly advised to take out personal pensions instead of staying in occupational schemes.
A review was launched in 1994 but recent figures show that so far only around 50,000 assessments have been completed out of the 570,000 cases currently for review.
A total 102 million pounds has been paid out in 12,650 cases where redress has been accepted, around 8,000 pounds each. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds) Thursday, 29 May 1997 14:02:56 ENDS  nFLLUIT1AF
The Lloyd's of London insurance syndicate Friday posted profits of more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) for the second year running -- but warned that profits would fall for at least the next two years.
The insurance market, which last year only just succeeded in pushing through a rescue package after the billions of pounds of losses run up between 198nd 1992, also said its future focus would be on customers.
"For too long, Lloyd's has been obsessed with its capital base. We need to get back to basics," said Chief Executive Ron Sandler.
That meant providing customers with the best service and developing international trading opportunities, he said.
Lloyd's results are reported three years in arrears, and for 1994 profits once again topped the billion-pound mark at 1.01 billion pounds ($1.6 billion).
That fell just short of 1993's record level of 1.08 billion pounds ($1.8 billion) and was in line with forecasts.
Corporate members, who were introduced to the market in 1994 following the near-disastrous losses which threatened to sink Lloyd's, will share in the profits for the first time.
Corporate capital now provides some 44 percent of the market's capacity, a figure that is forecast to increase further in the future.
Sandler described the 1994 results as "extremely satisfactory" but said there was no sign of an end to the downward trend in premium rates.
That decline, a product of competition in insurance markets worldwide, is expected to have a significant impact on profits in the next few years.
An aggregate of individual syndicate forecasts suggests profits will fall to around 900 million pounds in 1995 ($1.5 billion) and 600 million ($980 million) in 1996.
The 1995 figure is ahead of projections made this time last year despite the adverse movement in currencies, but the slide in rates is expected to take its toll in subsequent years.
Lloyd's chairman, Sir David Rowland, admitted 1997 results would be under pressure from the decline and said he hoped brokers would "sit on their hands when offered business at crazy rates."
The 1994 figures were a result of generally good market conditions and the exercise of much-sharpened skills in pricing and the setting of terms by Lloyd's underwriters, he said.
They were also helped because of fewer catastrophes, he added, though currency effects reduced profits by around 100 million pounds ($164 million).
Lloyd's returned to profit 12 months ago following five years of record losses totalling more than 8 billion pounds ($13 billion).
Those losses were reinsured into a separate company, Equitas, a central plank in Lloyd's "reconstruction and renewal" plan which ensured the 300-year old insurance market's survival.
The reinsurance of 1992 and prior liabilities have transformed Lloyd's position, Sandler said, and clients could be confident that Lloyd's security ranked alongside the best in the world.
Lanica Trust Limited, the investment vehicle run by 31 year old Andrew Regan confirmed on Monday it had lost over 600,000 pounds ($981,000) in its failed attempt to win control of the Co-operative Wholesale Society (CWS).
And the company said its shares, suspended in February after news of its interest in the Co-op leaked to the press, would not be relisted until legal proceedings pending against Regan and business partner David Lyons had been resolved.
Lanica shares were suspended on February 10 at 19-1/2 pounds after soaring from just 137 pence at the end of October.
A spokeswoman for the London Stock Exchange said that there were a number of "unresolved issues" surrounding the company.
Lanica's ambitious plans to bid 1.2 billion pounds for the Co-op crumbled in April amid a flurry of legal writs following allegations of the theft of confidential Co-op documents and financial irregularities in an earlier Regan deal.
The circumstances surrounding the planned Co-op takeover won it an unprecedented "unreserved" public apology and substantial cash settlement from Regan's merchant bank Hambros.
A preliminary hearing of the private prosecution for theft and handling stolen property brought by the Co-op against Regan was last week adjourned until June 18.
The Serious Fraud Office is currently investigating a transaction between the Co-op and Hobson Group, then headed by Regan, back in January 1995.
Lanica said that it had made a loss of 381,045 pounds last year, compared with a 578,456 profit a year earlier.
The loss included the write-off of Lanica' entire 600,000 pound investment in Galileo Group, the company specially set up to make the Co-op bid.
Regan intended to break-up the Co-op, selling off constituent parts of the group whose interests range from supermarkets, banking and insurance to opticians, chemists and funeral parlours.
Following the failure of the bid, Galileo was put into liquidation. The liquidators, Ernst &amp; Young, have not ruled out legal action against Regan, Lanica or its advisers Hambros.
In a statement accompanying the results, Regan again expressed his disappointment that Galileo had been unable to put its proposals to Co-op members.
"We believed very strongly that these were in the best interests of Lanica Trust's shareholders, but equally importantly, to the owners of CWS. However, it was not to be," said Regan.
Lanica would continue to examine investment opportunities which over time would "provide our shareholders with substantial potential for capital growth", he added. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London announced on Tuesday it is to give Names more time to meet planned increases in the capital they must put up to support their underwriting activities.
Lloyd's has also dropped proposals to prevent Names - the traditional backers of the insurance market - using their own homes as collateral for underwriting.
The planned capital increases are part of a package of measures designed to strengthen the financial security that underpins Lloyd's and to provide a level playing field between Names and corporate members.
The longer transition period for the changes announced today may go some way to meeting the concerns of Names' representatives who had called for more time to be given to meet the new capital requirements.
Names fear they are gradually being forced out of the market in favour of corporate capital first introduced in 1994, a charge repeatedly denied by the Lloyd's hierachy.
Names are to be given three years before they have to meet the new requirements of showing evidence of assets amounting to 50 percent of the premiums they underwrite.
In a Lloyd's working party report last month a two-year transition period was proposed but, after consultations, that has been extended from 1999 to the year 2000.
A phased increase in Names' minimum level of means to 350,000 pounds ($571,000) from the current level of 250,000 pounds has also been increased from two to five years and will come into force in 2002.
This 350,000 pounds will be made up of funds held at Lloyd's and evidence of "other personal wealth" (OPW).
Proposals to double the OPW requirements for 2000 and beyond have been dropped in favour of a slightly higher level of funds which must be held at Lloyd's.
At present Names must put up between 20 and 30 percent of the total business they back compared with 50 percent for corporate members.
By 2000, Names will have to hold 40 percent of premium capacity at Lloyd's with OPW making up a further 10 percent, bringing them into line with corporate members.
The use of "principal private residences" (PPRs) - Names' own homes - as collateral for members' underwriting are to be allowed to continue but only for those in existence at the end of 1994.
No new PPR backed guarantees may be introduced in the future nor existing one increased.
Risk assessment is to be extended to all members from  1998 onward and may require higher capital levels for members with greater risk exposure.
This is expected to affect less than 10 percent of individual members.
The Association of Lloyd's Members (ALM), which represents Names' interests, broadly welcomed today's proposals, saying it was essential that all Names should demonstrate their ability to meet any losses they incurred.
Lloyd's proposals coincided with the publication of an independent report commissioned by the Market Interests Group - an alliance of the ALM, member agents and Lloyd's brokers.
It acknowledged that reform in particular of the annual venture and management of Names' based capital was important, but said that creating an environment that encouraged their disappearance would be a significant mistake.
Earlier on Friday a leading figure in Lloyd's called for the capital structure of the market to be simplified.
Robert Hiscox, chairman of insurance group Hiscox Plc described the annual venture - where syndicates are reformed anew every year - as an "anachronistic absurdity" and said the current mixture of unlimited and limited members was too expensive to maintain. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London announced Tuesday it will give backers more time to meet planned increases in the capital they must put up to support their underwriting activities.
Lloyd's has also dropped proposals to prevent Names -- as the traditional backers of the insurance market are called -- from using their own homes as collateral for underwriting.
The planned capital increases are part of a package of measures designed to strengthen the financial security that underpins Lloyd's and to provide a level playing field between Names and corporate members.
The longer transition period for the changes announced Tuesday may go some way to meeting the concerns of Names' representatives, who had called for more time to be given to meet the new capital requirements.
Names fear they are gradually being forced out of the market in favour of corporate capital first introduced in 1994, a charge repeatedly denied by the Lloyd's hierachy.
Names are to be given three years before they have to meet the new requirements of showing evidence of assets amounting to 50 percent of the premiums they underwrite.
In a Lloyd's working party report last month, a two-year transition period was proposed but, after consultations, that has been extended from 1999 to the year 2000.
A phased increase in Names' minimum level of means to 350,000 pounds ($571,000) from the current level of 250,000 pounds ($409,000) has also been increased from two to five years and will take effect in 2002.
This 350,000 pounds ($571,000) will be made up of funds held at Lloyd's and evidence of "other personal wealth" (OPW).
Proposals to double the OPW requirements for 2000 and beyond have been dropped in favour of a slightly higher level of funds which must be held at Lloyd's.
At present, Names must put up between 20 percent and 30 percent of the total business they back, compared with 50 percent for corporate members.
By 2000, Names will have to hold 40 percent of premium capacity at Lloyd's with OPW making up a further 10 percent, bringing them into line with corporate members.
The use of "principal private residences" (PPRs) -- Names' own homes -- as collateral for members' underwriting will be allowed to continue but only for those in existence at the end of 1994.
The Association of Lloyd's Members (ALM), which represents Names' interests, broadly welcomed Tuesday's proposals, saying it was essential that all Names should demonstrate their ability to meet any losses they incurred.
Lloyd's of London on Friday moved to reassure its traditional backers, Names, that there was no hidden agenda to force them out of the 300 year-old insurance market.
"Trust us," outgoing chairman Sir David Rowland answered in response to a question from one worried Name. "It'll be all right."
Speaking at his last annual meeting as chairman, Rowland also promised there would be no move to do away with the venture where syndicates are reformed each year, despite criticisms from some managing agents that it is out-of date and expensive.
But he threw his support behind recent changes in the market which have seen members move away from unlimited to limited liability.
On retirement, said Rowland, he would become a limited liability member of Lloyd's.
"Unlimited personal liability has been shown to mean exactly what it says, and I no longer believe that the substantial advantages of that method of trading should blind us to the reality of its possible consequences for the individual," he said.
New trading structures with continuous capital, allowing the commitment of resources for the long term development of underwriting businesses, may prove the better route, said Rowland.
Unless it embraced change Lloyd's would see a steady decline in its fortunes, he warned.
The annual venture and the reinsurance of outstanding claims when the syndicate year closed - known as reinsurance to close - had appeared to work admirably until the eight billion pounds ($13 billion) of losses between 1988 and 1992 that at one point threatened to destroy Lloyd's.
Rowland argued it would never again be possible to reinsure to close an annual account without remembering the vulnerabilty of the system.
Critics have increasingly questioned the viability of the annual system of raising capital for Lloyd's, which they say is both costly and prevents long term planning.
Only a few days ago, the outspoken former chairman of Lloyd's, Robert Hiscox, described it as an "anachronistic absurdity" and attacked the complexity of the current capital structure where Names and corporate capital co-exist.
There is increasing tension at Lloyd's between Names, whose assets largely back the market on an unlimited basis and limited liability corporate capital, first introduced in 1994.
These tensions would be resolved by market forces promised Rowland.
"The Council affirms members' rights to continue to trade on an annual venture basis if they and their agents wish," said Rowland.
"But the Council does not believe that it should prescribe one structure over another. The pattern that results will reflect the choices made by agents, members and new capital providers," he said.
Members would also be free to choose whether to continue to trade on an unlimited basis, he said.
The Council, however, expects the trend toward corporate membership to continue.
A survey by the Association of Lloyd's Members, a group which represents Names' interests, showed more than half will be considering conversion to limited status over the next few years, according to Rowland.
Both Rowland and chief executive Ron Sandler in their speeches repeatedly stressed the importance of looking forward to the 500 or so Lloyd's members who turned up to the meeting in London's Barbican Centre. ($ = 0.615 British Pounds)
Lloyd's of London on Friday moved to reassure its traditional backers, known as Names, that there was no hidden agenda to force them out of the 300 year-old insurance market.
"Trust us," outgoing Chairman Sir David Rowland answered in response to a question from one worried Name. "It'll be all right."
Speaking at his last annual meeting as chairman, Rowland also promised there would be no move to do away with the practice in which syndicates are reformed each year despite criticisms from some managing agents that it is out-of date and expensive.
But he threw his support behind recent changes in the market which have seen members move away from unlimited to limited liability.
On retirement, said Rowland, he would become a limited liability member of Lloyd's.
"Unlimited personal liability has been shown to mean exactly what it says, and I no longer believe that the substantial advantages of that method of trading should blind us to the reality of its possible consequences for the individual," he said.
New trading structures with continuous capital, allowing the commitment of resources for the long-term development of underwriting businesses, may prove the better route, said Rowland.
Unless it embraces change, Lloyd's will see a steady decline in its fortunes, he warned.
The annual reforming of syndicates and the reinsurance of outstanding claims when the syndicate year closed -- known as reinsurance to close -- had appeared to work admirably until the 8 billion pounds ($13 billion) in losses between 1988 and 1992 that at one point threatened to destroy Lloyd's.
Rowland argued it would never again be possible to reinsure to close an annual account without remembering the vulnerabilty of the system.
Critics have increasingly questioned the viability of the annual system of raising capital for Lloyd's, which they say is both costly and prevents long-term planning.
Only a few days ago, the outspoken former chairman of Lloyd's, Robert Hiscox, described it as an "anachronistic absurdity" and attacked the complexity of the current capital structure where Names and corporate capital co-exist.
There is increasing tension at Lloyd's between Names, whose assets largely back the market on an unlimited basis and limited liability corporate capital, first introduced in 1994.
These tensions will be resolved by market forces, promised Rowland.
British composite insurer Commercial Union Plc on Tuesday announced a major restructuring of its domestic general insurance operations to improve profitability and customer service.
The shake-up is aimed at producing some 100 million pounds ($163.5 million) of savings annually by 1999, largely through the reduction of administration and claims supply chain costs.
But the company was quick to emphasise that no jobs were under threat.
"Provided we meet our overall strategic objectives there won't be any compulsory redundancies. There is no hidden agenda here to lose jobs," said Andy Homer, manager of Commercial Union's UK general insurance division.
Dubbed 'Market Orientation', the changes will see head office functions reorganised into customer-focused trading units built around specific market segments and distribution channels, the company said.
There will be nine new trading units, each focused on one market sector. They will handle product development, underwriting, marketing and delivery.
Underwriters, marketers, finance and information technology staff will all work in teams, with the task of focusing on customer needs and Commercial Union believes it is the first British insurer to take this cross-functional approach.
"Market Orientation will create an innovative, team-based commercial culture and ensure that we establish ourselves as the pre-eminent force in the UK insurance market," said Cees Schrauwers, managing director of Commercial Union non-life insurance.
The company hopes to save 40 million pounds through more effective management of the claims supply chain, which accounts for five percent of the 800 million pound annual claims bill.
It already has a sole supplier agreement for windshields with Autoglass.
The benefits will be shared by customers as well as shareholders, Schrauwers said.
Around 40 million pounds of savings are targeted from administration costs through greater use of new technology.
Four of the group's 22 branches -- Liverpool, Manchester Bristol and Southampton -- have already piloted the changes.
Another 20 million pounds are to come from new modelling software to improve pricing and margins.
Many of the costs involved in the programme have already been incurred as normal business expenses, Homer said.
"In 1998 and 1999 we believe we can complete the programme. There's no hidden charge coming up later in the year," he said.
($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
British mutual insurer Norwich Union said on Thursday strong demand had led it to increase the members' offer in next week's flotation to 1.2 billion pounds ($2 billion).
That means some 400 million pounds worth of shares will be clawed back from the public offering, primarily financial institutions, to satisfy members' appetite for extra shares which saw many queuing to beat the June 10 deadline.
Some 800 million pounds worth of shares had originally been set aside to meet members' applications but this proved insufficient as members' rushed to top up their holdings at a 25 pence per share discount to the public offer price.
For Norwich, the flotation will bring to an end more than 200 years as a mutual with policyholders owning the company.
Demutualisation will allow it to separate the group's life operations and thus policyholders' returns from the risks associated with its more volatile and cyclical general insurance business.
It will also strengthen Norwich's financial position and allow the core life business greater investment freedom.
The flotation is likely to value Norwich, which has more than seven million customers, at around 5.5 billion pounds and create Britain's third-largest quoted insurer behind Prudential Corp and Royal &amp; Sun Alliance.
Nearly three million Norwich policyholders will share 1.3 billion free shares in addition to the extra discounted shares.
Norwich still expects the offer price to range between 240 pence and 290 pence per share suggesting large profits for those lucky enough to get extra shares.
Bookmakers City Index are taking bets on a first day closing price of between 335 pence and 345 pence, an immediate profit of at least 70 pence per share.
It would put the value of the minimum 300 free shares with profits members will receive at over 1,000 pounds.
Many will receive far more depending on the value and duration of their policies.
Non-profit policyholders are to receive a flat rate 150 shares.
Institutional demand is a big factor in the likely sharp gains over the offer price.
The two building societies who floated recently -- Halifax and Alliance &amp; Leceister -- saw their share price squeezed higher by financial institutions keen to buy the shares and maintain the weighting of the financial sector in their portfolios.
Like Halifax, Norwich is almost certain to enter the FTSE 100 index of Britain's largest companies.
The public offer, which is made up of the institutional offer, retail offer and employees offer, will be between 1.1 and 1.2 billion pounds following the clawback of the extra shares for members.
News of the final public and members' offer price and provisional basis of allocation is expected to be made on June 15. Dealings in Norwich shares will begin on June 16. ($ = 0.612 British Pounds)
British insurer Norwich Union looks set to make a sparkling debut when its shares start trading on the stock market on Monday.
On flotation the company, which has more than seven million customers, is likely to be valued at around six billion pounds making it Britain's third-largest quoted insurer behind Prudential Corp and Royal &amp; Sun Alliance.
As with recent demutualising building societies Halifax and Alliance &amp; Leceister, Norwich Union's members have seen the value of their stakes in the company steadily climb since proposals to float the group were first announced.
Nearly three million Norwich policyholders will share 1.3 billion free shares under the flotation plans. The company aims to raise another 1.75 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) of capital in a public and members' offer of new shares.
Members have rushed to grab the opportunity to buy further shares at a 25 pence discount, queuing to beat the registration deadline earlier this week.
Norwich Union said on Thursday it still expects the public offer to be priced at between 240 pence and 290 pence per share, 215 pence to 265 pence for members, suggesting large profits for those lucky enough to get extra shares.
Bookmakers City Index are taking bets on a first day closing price of between 343 pence and 353 pence, a profit for members of at least 78 pence per share.
Many are expected to cash in their profits immediately especially those who have borrowed to fund the purchase of extra shares.
The minimum 300 free shares that 1.8 million with-profits members will receive is likely to be worth more than 1,000 pounds. The average handout will be far higher with additional shares based on the value and duration of their policies.
The 1.1 million non-profit policyholders are to receive a flat rate 150 shares.
Members may be disappointed by the number of discounted shares they actually receive with a scaling down of applications a near certainty.
In fact, such has been members' appetite for extra shares that Norwich Union on Thursday announced it was clawing back 400 million pounds worth of shares from the public offering, primarily financial institutions, to satisfy demand.
That took the members' share to around half of the total offering of 2.4 billion pounds.
For Norwich Union, the flotation will bring to an end more than 200 years as a mutual where ownership is held jointly by members.
Demutualisation will allow it to separate the group's life operations and thus policyholders' returns from the risks associated with its more volatile and cyclical general insurance business.
It will also strengthen Norwich Union's financial position and allow the core life business greater investment freedom.
Institutional demand is a big factor in the expected sharp
rise in the share price.
Both Halifax and Alliance &amp; Leceister saw their shares squeezed higher by financial institutions keen to buy and maintain the weighting of the financial sector in their portfolios.
Like Halifax, Norwich is almost certain to enter the FTSE 100 index of Britain's largest companies later this year.
Many analysts estimate fair value of the shares at anything from 280 pence to 340 pence.
Norwich Union has also been touted as a possible takeover target, with Australian insurer AMP reportedly heading the list of possible predators.
The probable price tag of the group now looks set to price it out reach of many who might have been interested.
News of the final public and members' offer price and provisional basis of allocation is expected to be made on June 15. Dealings will begin on June 16. ($ = 0.613 British Pounds)
Norwich Union, the British insurer which starts trading on the stock market this week, said on Sunday that its public offer of shares had been priced at the top end of pre-float forecasts following huge demand for stock.
As widely expected successful applicants will pay 290 pence per share in the public offer while members will pay 265 pence, reflecting their 25 pence discount.
The offer raised around 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9 billion) for Norwich Union and values it at over 5.6 billion pounds.
That makes it Britain's third largest quoted insurer behind Prudential Corp and Royal &amp; Sun Alliance.
But many applicants will be disappointed with the number of shares they actually receive after a sharp scaling back of allocations because of the heavy demand.
Members applied for nearly four times as many shares as were available while the institutional offer was covered a mammoth 10 times.
Norwich Union chief executive Allan Bridgewater declared himself "delighted" at the response from both members and institutional investors.
It was, he said, an endorsement of the strength of the Norwich Union brand and the prospects for the business going forward.
Members applying for up to 1,500 pounds worth of shares will get their full allotment but for instance an application of 10,000 pounds will get just 22 percent of shares asked for.
Less than half of the 766,000 members applying for shares will receive their full allocation.
In fact, such was members' appetite that Norwich Union had to claw back 400 million pounds worth of shares from the public offering, primarily financial institutions, to satisfy it.
On the start of trading on the stock market on Monday members will hold just over three-quarters of Norwich Union's share capital.
Those lucky enough to get shares may be tempted to cash-in immediately especially those borrowing to fund the purchases.
But Bridewater said the company had seen no evidence that this would be the case.
Many analysts estimate fair value of the shares at anything from 280 pence to 340 pence. Bookmakers City Index predict the shares to race as high as 353 pence by the end of the first day.
Under the floatation plans which brings to an end 200 years as a mutual nearly three million Norwich Union policyholders will share 1.3 billion free shares under the flotation plans in addition to any extra shares in the members offer.
The minimum 300 free shares 1.8 million with-profits members will receive is likely to be worth more than 1,000 pounds. The average handout will be far higher with additional shares based on the value and duration of their policies.
The 1.1 million non-profit policyholders are to receive a flat rate 150 shares. Bridewater said the company had considered raising the offer price above its pre-float predictions of between 240 pence and 290 pence but had felt on balance that a 290 pence price reflected a "fair price" looking forward.
As with recent demutualising building societies Halifax and Alliance &amp; Leceister institutional demand will be a big factor in the expected sharp rise in the share price.
Both saw their shares squeezed higher by financial institutions keen to buy and maintain the weighting of the financial sector in their portfolios.
Like Halifax, Norwich Union is certain to enter the FTSE 100 index of Britain's largest companies later this year.
Norwich Union has also been touted as a possible takeover target, with Australian insurer AMP reportedly heading the list of possible predators.
The probable price tag of the group now looks set to price it out reach of many who might have been interested and Bridewater confirmed that there had been discussions of a takeover with anyone. ($ = 0.611 British Pounds)
