But while services are a factor in attracting shoppers, mall owners said having the best stores is the key for bringing shoppers in to a mall.
"Number one, it does come down to having the right shops," said General Growth's Michaels.
Mall operators said the stronger economy and the fact that there are five fewer days between Thanksgiving and Christmas may have helped prompt more shopping Friday.
In fact, many operators said they have had promotions earlier this season because of the shorter shopping period, with some starting as early as Veteran's Day.
Heidi Holwerda, vice president of marketing for Muskegon, Michigan-based Horizon Group Inc., an outlet mall operator with 36 centers, said her company began coordinated sales Nov. 10.
"As a result, we've seen some pretty significant increases in November in regard to traffic," she said, noting that traffic was up 10 percent in centers that the company has owned for at least a year.
Thousands of demonstrators thronged Bogota's streets on Sunday calling for an end to the crime wave that has turned Colombia into the kidnap capital of the world.
At least 1,100 people have been abducted this year -- more than half of those by the warring factions in Colombia's simmering internal conflict -- according to event organisers.
National Police chief Rosso Jose Serrano, who took part in the first march of its kind in Colombia, saw it as a direct challenge to leftist guerrillas, who fill their war chests with ransoms. Scores of others clutched photos in silent tribute to their loved ones -- kidnapped by criminals.
"When you're abducted, you become like the living dead -- it strips you of your soul. Today's march is a sign that civil society is saying no to kidnap," said Francisco Santos, founder of Pais Libre, an independent foundation that counsels kidnap victims' families and which organised Sunday's march.
Santos, part of the family that runs Colombia's leading newspaper, was kidnapped six years ago as part of a campaign unleashed by the late drug lord Pablo Escobar and his Medellin cartel.
In a move timed to coincide with Sunday's protest, one of Colombia's most-feared right-wing paramilitary leaders released the mothers of two guerrilla chieftains in the northwest.
The women were snatched in a wave of retaliatory kidnappings carried out by Carlos Castano's paramilitary gang in the last six months in a bid to persuade the guerrilla chief to halt its campaign of abductions.
An estimated 15,000 to 20,000 people took part in the march. Organisers put the figure at twice that.
Norberto Garcia, 62, tearfully watched the march and subsequent rally in the historic Plaza Bolivar square. Almost a year to the day his 14-year-old daughter Andrea disappeared on her way to school in a working-class district of the capital.
"When your child is kidnapped it is like your own life ends. It's the hardest thing for a parent to suffer," Garcia said.
Only last Wednesday, the country was rocked by the kidnap and murder of seven-year-old schoolboy Victor Alvarez in southwest Colombia. His corpse was dumped on the doorstep of his family home when his parents failed to pay a $10,000 ransom.
But in a country where even conservative estimates put the number of abductions at three a day, the tragedy of young Victor, of Papayan, was almost forgotten by Sunday.
Anti-kidnap czar Alberto Villamizar was jeered by crowds as he delivered a message from President Ernesto Samper pledging to crack down on kidnapping.
The catcalls were preceded by chants of "Serrano will save the motherland", in support of the no-nonsense chief of National Police, who heads the fight against kidnapping and drug-trafficking.
With China's takeover of Hong Kong rapidly looming, the British colony faces a swirl of politics and diplomatic jousting in the week ahead, the last before China names the territory's first post-colonial governor.
British and Chinese negotiators, often sparring over the details of the sovereignty transfer, will meet on Wednesday for three days in their latest bargaining round.
Chinese sources said China is likely to lash out during the Joint Liaison Group session at a British attempt to foist a soft subversion law on the territory before the mid-1997 handover.
Last Tuesday Britain announced a draft bill that would make crimes such as subversion and sedition a crime only if they entailed violence, making clear mere dissident-style criticism of the authorities was not a crime.
China has denounced the move. "This will only cause disruption and instability in Hong Kong," China's spokesman in Hong Kong Zhang Junsheng said on Friday. Some members of the pro-China lobby predicted the law would be replaced by a more Chinese-style legislation after the handover on July 1.
The territory is also preparing for a visit by U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord on Wednesday.
Lord, who is also heading for China amid signs of a thaw in Sino-U.S. ties, plans to meet Governor Chris Patten and his deputy Anson Chan, as well as China's hardline envoy in the territory, Zhou Nan, and shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, the favourite in the contest to be the first post-colonial leader.
Critics said Lord's meeting with Tung would be an undiplomatic signal from the United States tantamount to Washington picking the winner in the contest.
Fresh attacks on China are also expected on Wednesday from democrats in Hong Kong's elected legislature, which is set to be dissolved upon the handover and replaced with a new provisional body assembled under China's supervision.
Last week a Selection Committee of 400 rich or influential Hong Kong people, formed under China's careful control, quizzed Tung and two rivals over their policies and attitude to China.
Tung, 59, emerged as the most vocally pro-China contender, loosing off a volley of remarks that stressed loyalty and patriotism to China, attacked Patten's politics and threw in a snub on the inauspicious quality of the governor's residence.
The tycoon also suggested the Democratic Party, the territory's largest, should stop confronting China if it wanted to participate in post-handover political establishment, which drew an attack from Patten.
"You can't, nobody can, freeze out of the political debate in Hong Kong, out of the dialogue about Hong Kong's future, those who represent majority opinion in Hong Kong," Patten told Hong Kong's government-funded radio on Saturday during his visit to Japan.
The 400-member Committee will meet again on December 11 to vote for the new chief executive. Most people now consider Tung's rivals Ti Liang Yang, a former chief judge, and businessman Peter Woo, rank outsiders.
Many Hong Kong people were unimpressed by last week's performances, not least the territory's pro-democracy camp.
"Only empty promises and brief outlines were provided in their platforms," said legislator Fred Li of the Democratic Party.
He decried the fact Hong Kong's voters were not involved in choosing among the three contenders. "All they need is the blessing of these 400 people," Li said.
Inco Ltd's huge Voisey's Bay nickel deposit will help turn the company into a 750-million pound a year low-cost nickel producer by the year 2001, company executives said on Monday.
The new discovery will propel the company's growth by 86 percent over 1995 when Inco produced 403 million pounds of nickel, Inco chairman and chief executive Mike Sopko said in a speech to media and analysts.
"We want to remain the world's leading nickel producer in a growing nickel market," he said.
Costs will decline by 23 percent because of Voisey's Bay, from $1.30 a pound in 1995 to 0.89, said chief financial officer Tony Munday.
But capital costs for Voisey's Bay will be higher than initially thought, said Stuart Gendron, president of Voisey's Bay Nickel Co, a unit of Inco.
The company now expects to spend US$1.4 billion on facilities until the year 2000, up from earlier estimates of US$1.1 billion, he said. The company expects to finish a feasibility study by the end of this year, he added.
Inco took over Diamond Fields Resources Inc last summer for US$3.3 billion and won control of the giant Voisey's Bay resource. The company expects to be producing 270 million pounds of nickel a year from the property by 2001.
In the near term, Inco said its production should grow in 1997 to 430 million pounds, up from 415 million in 1996. By 1998, nickel production should reach 450 million pounds, the company said.
While world nickel supply and demand were in balance in 1996, nickel demand should slightly outpace supply in 1997, said Peter Salathiel, vice-president of marketing.
"I would argue that in the near term, 97-98, the supply-demand fundamentals for nickel look very good," he said.
He said it was mystery to him why nickel prices have been trending down recently, but he pointed to a glut in the stainless steel market.
"The stainless steel industry is going through kind of a crisis right at the moment," he said.
He said he did not expect any increase in Russian production of nickel in the next three to four years.
But Salathiel, who will retire at the end of the year, would not predict a nickel price for next year.
"The one thing I've learned is it's impossible to predict nickel prices," he said.
Inco plans to spend US$68.6 million on exploration next year, up from an expectedUS$55.1 million this year, said Bob Horn, vice-president of exploration.
((Heather Scoffield, Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8104))
Chrysler Corp. Monday said sales rose a scant 1.4 percent in November, a dramatic slowdown for the nation's third-largest automaker and a sign of what analysts said would be a weak month for Detroit's Big Three.
November sales of 179,628, up from 177,073 in November 1995, set a record for the month, and Chrysler's year-to-date sales of 2,271,022 surpassed its previous full-year record of 2,208,057 set in 1988. But the 1.4 percent increase was one of the smallest for Chrysler so far this year.
Chrysler said car sales fell 11 percent based on daily selling rates last month while sales of pickup trucks, sport/utility vehicles and minivans rose 7 percent.
Chrysler credited a strong performance from its Dodge and Jeep divisions. Dodge sales were 95,022 and Jeep sales reached 42,835, both records for November.
"Our new 1997 lineup continues to generate healthy traffic at our dealerships," James Holden, executive vice president of sales and marketing, said in a statement.
But Burnham Securities Inc. analyst David Healy said sales to fleet dealers such as car rental agencies fell in November, contributing to the weak performance.
Both General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. are expected to post lower car sales for November, leading to weak overall sales for the No. 1 and No. 2 automakers.
That is expected to drag down the industry's sales by 2 percent to 3 percent, according to Michael Luckey, president of Luckey Consulting Group.
"The car market from what I'm hearing is going to be lousy for just about everybody," he said.
Luckey said annual sales based on November's expected performance and government seasonal data would be 14.7 million to 14.8 million units. The rate for October was 14.9 million, and the rate for November 1995 was 14.8 million.
But the actual november sales rate could be 300,000 units below that, he said, because of fluctuations in government data used to compute the rate.
Analysts noted that slower sales were expected for the second half of 1996, but Healy said it was too early to declare a recession for car sales because monthly sales rates can be volatile.
GM, set to report sales on Tuesday, is seen posting a 15 percent drop in overall sales, with car sales down more than 20 percent and light truck sales unchanged.
Car sales were hurt by the three-week Canadian autoworkers' strike in October, which caused a production loss of some 100,000 GM cars. Contributing to the weak numbers were customers who chose to wait for GM's 15 new models instead of buying older versions.
"Certainly for quite awhile their car sales are going to be hurt by these painfully slow transitions to the new models," said Luckey, noting it could be next spring before GM has full availability of its new cars.
Healy estimated Ford sales will slide 4 percent to 5 percent. Sales of pickups, minivans and sport/utilities are expected to rise 2 percent, with car sales off 12 percent, he said. Ford is scheduled to announce its sales on Wednesday.
Subaru of America Inc. reported a 21 percent jump in sales to 11,072 from the previous month. Year-to-date sales from Subaru, a unit of Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd of Japan, were 108,533, also up 21 percent from a year ago.
Volvo AB said U.S. sales fell 3.6 percent to 6,582 for November.
Small capitalization technology stocks shrugged off a wave of profit-taking that socked blue chip stocks Monday as investors shopped for values among beaten- down or lesser known names, especially in the Internet sector.
"Some of the second- and third-tier technology names have become the focus," agreed Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd.  
Among the beneficiaries of this broadening interest in technology stocks were America Online Inc, up 4-1/8 to 39-1/2 and Adobe Systems Inc, up 2-1/4 to 41-3/4.
Informix Corp was the most actively traded issue on the Nasdaq, gaining 1-1/4 to 25 by mid-afternoon Monday, following reports that its next-generation Universal Server database has the edge over rival Oracle Corp.
Other strong gainers included Netscape Communications Corp, which rose 2-1/8 to 58 and electronic payment company CyberCash Inc, which gained 2-7/8 to 28-1/8.  
"We are stepping down the liquidity and quality ladder," said Paul Rabbit, Oppenheimer's chief portfolio strategist. "(Investors) are trying to find some of the beat up ones," he said, adding, "There is a search for less exploited areas."
"Today is the first (trading) day of a new month and there appears to be a little profit taking here, but it doesn't appear to be affecting the technology stocks," Bleier said.
Analysts said investors were shying from bellwethers Intel Corp and Microsoft Corp following their strong run-up in November, even as International Business Machines Corp hit a new year-high.  
Intel was down 1-1/8 to 125-3/4 on volume of nearly five million shares, while Microsoft shed 1-1/4 to 155-5/8. Both stocks remain near historic price levels. The Dow Jones composite index was off 41.74 to 6479.96.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
Toronto stocks ended softer on Monday after the important gold sector crumbled under the weight of falling bullion prices.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index fell 31.70 points to 5984.97, below the 6000 level. Trading was brisk at 92.6 million shares, worth C$1.6 billion (US$1.2 billion).
The heavily weighted golds group lost more than 2.5 percent after bullion prices dropped in New York. February COMEX gold finished the day US$4.10 cheaper at US$370.90 an ounce.
"The gold index is finally bowing to reality" after recent gains, said RBC Dominion Securities strategist Dunnery Best in a market report.
This year the TSE's 300 index has jumped about 27 percent since the start of trading, aided by a surge in gold stocks.
Ten of Toronto's 14 sub-indices finished weaker, led by golds and financial services. The gaining groups were conglomerates, transports, retail and pipelines.
"The banks were significantly weaker," one trader said. "That's going to take the market lower."
Falling issues powered ahead of advancing ones 596 to 380. Another 277 traded flat.
However, traders said today's weakness was a temporary blip ahead of more year-end gains. In the past mutual fund managers tended to shuffle portfolios before Christmas to provide a strong finish to their year, which has boosted equities markets, they said.
Among the hot stocks, shares in gold prospector Bre-X Minerals Ltd. were still volatile ahead of a potential partnership deal with Barrick Gold Corp. over Bre-X's huge gold discovery in Busang, Indonesia.
Bre-X dropped C$2.90 to C$17.75 on trading of nearly six million shares while Barrick, the world's third gold producer, lost C$0.95 to C$39.55, also in brisk dealings.
The nation's largest bank, Royal Bank of Canada, fell after influential U.S. investment firm Morgan Stanley &amp; Co Inc. downgraded the stock to neutral from outperform, saying it was fairly valued. Shares in Royal closed C$0.85 weaker at C$49.00 after sky-rocketing this month.
Integrated oil company Suncor Inc. climbed to new year highs in Toronto as rumors circulated that it could be the target of a takeover bid. Suncor shares rose C$1.40 to C$60.30 in light trading.
Czech  Ceska Rafinerska a.s. closed a cracking unit at its Litvinov refinery on Monday after the second fire in eight days struck the plant, company spokesman Ales Soukup said.
But he said the restoration of crude processing, which was halted after the first fire, would continue.
A fire broke out on Sunday night in a furnace of a cracking unit as crude flow resumed after an eight-day stoppage.
Oil flow had been halted since a blaze in another part of the refinery began on November 23 and lasted for more than two days. The latest fire was put out several hours after it started.
Soukup told Reuters that the current resumption of production at the refinery would continue as crude is diverted around the cracker.
The shutdown of the cracker would limit the content, not the amount, of processed crude, Soukup said.
"This (cracking) unit will be out of order for some time, and therefore the refinery will operate in a substitution regime. It will affect the depth of processing," he said.
The extent of damage at the refinery, near the northern town of Litvinov, has not yet been determined. Soukup said reopening the cracker "was not a question of hours or days."
An explosion in the refinery's tanking station on November 23 sent flames visible for several kilometres into the air and caused dense smoke to roll into neighbouring Germany.
Soukup said the causes and damage from both fires were under investigation.
After the earlier fire, officials from Rafinerska, petrol firms and the government decided that supplies from the Kralupy refinery and in the distribution network were sufficient in the short term, and state reserves would not be tapped.
In a deal completed last year, the IOC consortium of three foreign oil groups bought a 49 percent stake in Rafinerska, a company set up to operate the two main Czech refineries at Litvinov and Kralupy.
The IOC is equally owned by DuPont Co unit Conoco of the United States, Royal Dutch/Shell, and Italy's Agip SpA.
The state holds the remaining 51 percent stake in Rafinerska through the holding company Unipetrol a.s..
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Czech surgeons began exploratory surgery on President Vaclav Havel on Monday to remove a spot from his lung, but the former dissident playwright has said that his health was not in serious danger.
Havel's office announced in a statement that a news briefing would be held on Monday afternoon after the operation but an official said it was impossible to say how the long the surgery would last.
Havel, a heavy smoker who spent almost five years in communist jails, has been ill for several weeks.
But in his weekly radio address, broadcast on Sunday, he was in an optimistic mood, saying the operation would "remove some sort of bad point or spot found on my lungs, the character of which is still unknown".
"However, even if it is something bad, it is so small and its location is so favourable that it seems that I am in no serious danger," he said in the address, recorded on Friday.
Havel, who led the 1989 "Velvet Revolution" which overthrew communism, said in the address from his hospital bed: "I am here not because my state of health is worsening".
"On the contrary, never in the past few weeks have I felt as well as I feel just now."
Havel, who is widely respected at home and abroad, was admitted to hospital last Monday, more than a week after his office said he was suffering from pneumonia. Later surgeons described the planned surgery as "medium serious".
The Czech daily Mlada Fronta Dnes said that a sample of the spot would be sent for immediate analysis during the operation. Based on the results, surgeons would decide whether to continue with the operation, it said without elaborating.
Havel will keep his full presidential responsibilities during the operation.
Under the Czech constitution, most executive power lies with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus who is attending the European security summit in Lisbon in Havel's place.
Havel's power lies more in his personal authority and reputation for honesty in a Czech political scene increasingly dominated by squabbling and allegations of impropriety.
Opinion polls show his popularity rating at around 80 percent while public disillusionment with Czech politics is widespread.
Turnout for elections to the new Senate last month was just 30 percent in the second round, and a poll published last week showed that 58 percent of respondents were dissatisfied with the state of Czech politics.
Havel, whose wife Olga died of cancer in January, supports the free market but has bitterly criticised the corruption, dishonesty and materialism which has accompanied the scramble to make money.
Thousands of demonstrators thronged Bogota's streets on Sunday calling for an end to the crime wave that has turned Colombia into the kidnap capital of the world.
A small bomb exploded minutes before the march began about 100 yards (90 metres) from where demonstrators gathered but did not cause any injuries, police said. A spokesman said the device contained just a few ounces (under 100 grams) of explosive and was probably simply intended to sow panic.
At least 1,100 people have been abducted this year -- more than half of those by warring factions in Colombia's simmering internal conflict -- according to march organisers.
National Police chief Rosso Jose Serrano, who took part in the first march of its kind in Colombia, saw it as a direct challenge to leftist guerrillas, who fill their war chests with ransoms. Scores of others clutched photos in silent tribute to their loved ones -- kidnapped by criminals.
"When you're abducted you become like the living dead -- it strips you of your soul. Today's march is a sign that civil society is saying no to kidnap," said Francisco Santos, founder of Pais Libre, an independent foundation that counsels kidnap victims' families and which organised Sunday's march.
Santos, part of the family that runs Colombia's leading newspaper, was kidnapped six years ago as part of a campaign unleashed by the late drug lord Pablo Escobar and his Medellin cartel.
In a move timed to coincide with Sunday's protest, one of Colombia's most-feared right-wing paramilitary leaders released the mothers of two guerrilla chieftains in the northwest.
The women were snatched in a wave of retaliatory kidnappings carried out by Carlos Castano's paramilitary gang in the last six months in a bid to persuade the guerrilla chief to halt its campaign of abductions.
An estimated 15,000 to 20,000 people took part in the march. Organisers put the figure at twice that.
Norberto Garcia, 62, tearfully watched the march and subsequent rally in the historic Plaza Bolivar square. Almost a year ago to the day his 14-year-old daughter Andrea disappeared on her way to school in a working-class district of the capital.
"When your child is kidnapped it is like your own life ends. It's the hardest thing for a parent to suffer," Garcia said.
Only last Wednesday, the country was rocked by the kidnap and murder of seven-year-old schoolboy Victor Alvarez in southwest Colombia. His corpse was dumped on the doorstep of his family home when his parents failed to pay common criminals a $10,000 ransom.
But in a country where even conservative estimates put the number of abductions at three a day, the tragedy of young Victor, of Popayan, was almost forgotten by Sunday.
Anti-kidnap czar Alberto Villamizar was jeered by crowds as he delivered a message from President Ernesto Samper pledging to crack down on kidnapping.
The catcalls were preceeded by chants of "Serrano will save the motherland", in support of the no-nonsense chief of National Police, who heads the fight against kidnapping and drug-trafficking.
Leaders of Colombia's three largest labour federations said on Monday they would not sign a new wage and price control pact with bosses and the government, and warned 1997 could be a year of serious social unrest.
They condemned the annual social pact, first introduced by President Ernesto Samper in 1995, as a way of forging ahead with neoliberal policies at the expense of workers, and said such a model would fuel political polarisation in 1997.
"The social pact reflects neoliberal logic and aims to pay workers less in order to make industry more competitive. The pact is a corporatist tactic that does not serve the interests of the people," said Luis Eduardo Garzon, chairman of the Unitary Workers' Confederation (CUT), the country's largest labour organisation.
Following internal elections in November, left-wingers led by Communist Party members like Garzon seized overall control of the CUT from Liberal and Conservative Party moderates, who had bowed to previous government demands to sign a pact.
This year's pact agreed to a 19.5 percent wage hike for workers based on an inflation target of 17 percent. But while salaries were kept within strict limits, the cost of goods and services spiralled, pushing inflation to almost 21 percent in the first 11 months of 1996 -- a 1.5 percent drop in real wages in the year to date.
The central bank last week set a 1997 inflation target of 18 percent. The government, employers and union leaders were due to meet on Wednesday for another round of discussions on the 1997 social pact.
"The government has put the economy on a war footing to combat crime and subversion. If that continues I think there's a grave risk of further polarisation of political forces in 1997 and we will be in for a very difficult time," Garzon said.
Cervulo Bautista, of the general secretariat of the Christian Democrat-influenced General Confederation of Democratic Workers (CGTD), also warned of worsening labour relations in 1997.
"We don't want to be accused of trying to bring down Samper's governmment but if the situation doesn't change we could be calling on the working classes for a nationwide stoppage," he said.
The CUT, with 600,000 affiliates, and the CGTD, with about 300,000 members, said they would be looking for minimum wage increases of 27 percent to make up for the real term erosion of salaries this year coupled with a productivity premium.
The 200,000-strong Confederation of Colombian Workers (CTC), normally loyal to Samper's Liberal Party, said it would be looking for wage rises of close to 30 percent.
Labour Minister Orlando Obregon was confident a social pact will be signed by Jan. 1, a spokeswoman said. About 35 percent of the Colombian labour force is unionized.
Market talk persists about a possible demerger of Rhone-Poulenc into a chemicals company and a pharmaceuticals group, with a leading French broker saying it would boost share value by a third.
"Intrinsically, Rhone-Poulenc is worth no more than 40 to 45 billion francs ($7.89 billion to $8.88 billion) due to the weight of underperforming chemical activities and their important debts," Jean Borjeix, chief analyst at Jean-Pierre Pinatton, wrote recently.
He said that if the pharmaceutical activities -- Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Fisons, Merieux and Connaught -- were separated from the chemical activities, total group value could be 60 billion francs.
"An asset gain of such a size would allow (an investor) to wait until the (demerger) operation takes place," Borjeix said, adding that the 1996 and 1997 results forecasts limited the downside.
Pinatton expects Rhone-Poulenc to report a stable 1996 net attributable profit of 2.05 billion francs, rising to 2.5 billion in 1997. Rhone published a net attributable profit of 2.13 billion in 1995.
Demerger rumours were first fuelled by May 28 comments by managing director Igor Landau, during a luncheon at the Roland Garros tennis tournament, saying the company had studied the possibility but had, for the time being, decided against it.
Borjeix believes the company will decide to split because management has become concerned about share holder value and also because an asset disposal policy is coming to an end.
Other analysts are less sure.
"I don't think it will happen. They will concentrate on improving margins themselves for the time being," said an analyst at a U.S. brokerage in London.
He also dismissed a suggestion, aired in Business Week in June, of Rhone selling its 68 percent stake in Rhone-Poulenc Rorer. "There would be no immediate benefit to that."
Rhone shares have been rising recently, partly on the back of 9.2 percent higher first half profits and on recurring speculative rumours of a split or possible merger of the chemical activities with Atochem of Elf-Aquitaine.
Shares rose from 122.3 francs in May to 136 on June 18 on initial speculation and then fell back to 120.8 on July 24. They have resumed their rise to 131 francs, but this is still below the institutional privatisation price of 146 francs in November 1993 and the price for individuals of 135 francs. (Corrects privatisation date to November 1993 from 1994 and makes clear 146 franc price was for institutional shareholders.)
Les Echos newspaper said on July 29 that the company's board meeting of July, where the first half profit figures were approved, had also discussed the group's vulnerability to a takeover bid.
The paper said chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou was worried the insufficent profitability of the chemical sector would make the group a cheap buy for a rival.
Fourtou has made the restructuring of the chemical sector a key part of his strategy, next to a pharmaceutical expansion drive and a 10-billion-franc two-year asset sale plan.
Board member Philippe Desmarescaux was recently given control of the chemicals sector in a move which was seen as signalling that restructuring of the division would accelerate.
Rhone-Poulenc took 223 million francs in provisions for the chemicals sector in the first half and expects total 1996 group provisions to be 500 million francs.
The rumours about a chemical link-up with Elf-Aquitaine are in line with many market stories about big French combinations to stave off competition in world markets -- the same reasoning caused rumours Elf would merge with Total SA.
At Elf, where chairman Philippe Jaffre is also trying to boost profitability with cost cuts and asset sales, the Atochem unit is doing fine, even though sales fell in the first half.
Jacques Puechal, the pipe-smoking chairman of the division, has embarked on a selective acquisition policy bolstered by a surge in 1995 net attributable profit of five billion francs, against 1.8 billion in the previous year.
On Wednesday, Paris broker Leven SA issued a "speculative buy" advice on Rhone Poulenc shares, after having been "neutral". Leven said the company's debt remained a worry but it appreciated developments in the drugs division and noted rumours of a demerger. ($1=5.068 French Franc)
The Czech crown firmed on Thursday to its highest level against its mark/dollar basket, buoyed by Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus' comments that devaluation was not needed despite a widening trade gap.
By mid-morning the crown moved to around 4.3 percent above its daily parity rate set by the Czech National Bank (CNB) against the dollar/mark basket from a four percent level in the morning.
The crown stood at 26.005 to the dollar and 17.600 to the mark at 1130 GMT.
The CNB followed the market up, fixing the crown 4.24 percent above parity with the basket after +3.9 percent on Wednesday.
Dealers said the crown could challenge 4.5 percent against parity before levelling off to end the week.
"Probably we will attack 4.5 percent (over parity)," Tomas Becvar, dealer at Prague's Komercni Banka, told Reuters.
Although the Czech trade balance earlier this week showed a record monthly deficit in July of 16.4 billion crowns, the market was encouraged by Klaus's comments.
"The first (reason for the crown's rise) is Klaus's comments in Austria," Becvar said. "Another reason of course is the following of the market by the central bank at the fixing."
At an economic conference in Austria, Klaus backed the CNB's Governor Josef Tosovsky view that a stronger crown would be better for the economy in the long-term.
"We think that a devaluation is not necessary and that it wouldn't be useful," Klaus told Reuters.
While some economists have recommended devaluing the crown to help the trade situation, many said it is not fundamentally necessary as capital inflows remain strong and the balance of services, especially toursim, softens the current account gap.
The Czech currency last dipped below the parity rate against the basket in mid-June, soon after elections stripped Klaus's conservative coalition of its majority in parliament and strenghthend the hand of the opposition Social Democrats.
But since then, the Czech currency has been on a steady march up, first hovering around three percent against the basket, then surging after Tosovsky's comments last Friday.
Klaus was finally able to form a minority government of his centre-right coalition while the centre-left Social Democrats have been concilliatory on economic issues, including a 9.3 billion crown cut in spending to balance this year's budget.
Dealers said positive preliminary results on Thursday for July's industrial production, showing a moderate recovery from disappointing June figures, also helped the crown.
Britain's largest brewer Scottish and Newcastle Plc announced a 26 percent increase in half-year profits to 195.1 million pounds ($328 million) on Monday and said the second half of the year had started positively.
The company's acquisition of Courage from Australian brewer Fosters last year helped give a 67 percent push to 89.9 million pounds in trading profits from its beer divisions.
"Overall, I think our 10 percent dividend increase, at the top end of the (forecast) range, is a measure of our confidence for the second half of the year," chief executive Brian Stewart told Reuters in an interview.
The dividend rise to 7.21 pence per share beat most analysts' forecasts which were centred on a 7p payout.
"General trading conditions are at least as good as they were this time last year and there has been a bit of an improvement in mainland Europe," he added.
The company's shares rose 7p to 647p. "The results were well ahead of our expectations. The really surprising number was the one that came in from beer. We were very impressed," said James Wheatcroft, an analyst at Panmure Gordon.
A Reuter poll of analysts produced a forecast range of 178 to 198 million pounds for pretax profits.
Beer sales fell by just over one percent compared with the first half of 1995 which was bolstered by outstanding summer weather, said the company. Despite this, S&amp;N said sales of John Smith's, the country's leading ale, were up 17 percent and sales of Foster's lager grew 6.5 percent to its highest ever volume.
Stewart, however, bemoaned the failure of Chancellor Kenneth Clarke to reduce excise duty on beer in his Budget last week.
Profits from its S&amp;N's Center Parcs activity holiday resorts were down 11 percent at about 44 million pounds due to the weak economic background in mainland Europe and the cost of improving its facilities in the Netherlands and Belgium.
The company sold its smallest village at Lommerbergen, Netherlands, and had to close its De Eemhof parc in Belgium while it upgraded the centre.
"We would expect Center Parcs to be much more on the front foot in the second half and we would quite clearly spell out that conditions in Germany are now more positive," said Stewart.
Profits from the company's pubs grew 8.2 percent to 87 million pounds, driven by its managed outlets where like-for-like food sales across the estate grew by 13 percent as the company put more restaurants into its premises.
The company will open 35 new Chef &amp; Brewer pub restaurants by the end of the year and push the Barras &amp; Co community pub brand very strongly, said Stewart.
"We will really be pushing down the accelerator on our community pubs Barras. Our focus has previously been on the high street or city centre and these community pubs really have a great deal of potential," he said.
Profits from S&amp;N's tenanted pubs fell some nine percent to 11.8 million pounds after the company was forced to sell off outlets to comply with a government requirement, imposed as a condition of S&amp;N's acquisition of Courage.
($1=.5953 Pound)
French Telecommunications Minister Francois Fillon has granted a telecoms operating licence to state-owned railroads group Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer (SNCF) as a further step towards the sector's liberalisation.
In a decree published in the Official Journal on Monday, Fillon said he was granting a 15-year licence to SNCF's Telecom Developpement unit to offer telecommunications services in an alternative to the France Telecom network.
SNCF still has to detail what assets it is going to put in the Telecom Development unit and also needs to get vetting for its tariffs. The operating licence sets technical standards, privacy issues and interconnection obligations.
The SNCF licence is the second such licence for a so-called "alternative infrastructure" in France. The first, for Eurotunnel unit TransManche to offer telecom links between London and Paris, was granted late last month.
A spokesman for the ministry said that "in the next few days" licences would be granted to MFS Communication Co of the U.S. and Colt Telecom Group of Britain, owned by financial group Fidelity Investments.
MFS and Colt will specialise on business networks in highly-populated areas but the SNCF licence covers the railroads' existing network of 8,000 kilometres of optic fibre all over the country, as well as radio links, which will be expanded to some 12,000 kilometres in the next six years, SNCF sources said.
The licence also allows Telecom Developpement to use other means beyond its own network.
SNCF aims to decide before the end of the year which company will operate the network. It has at least three offers from interested companies.
One is from CEGETEL, the Generale des Eaux unit in which British Telecommunications Plc and Mannesmann of Germany have a stake and which aims to become France's second biggest operator. It already runs the SFR mobile network.
Another is Bouygues which teamed up with Italy's STET for the SNCF offer and is also talking with Germany's VEBA.
A third offer is by the Unisource consortium of Dutch KPN, Telia AB of Sweden, Swiss Telecom PTT and Spain's Telefonica.
AT&amp;T of the U.S. is keeping silent about its intentions but the operator, aiming to play an important role in France, is rumoured to be playing several cards at the same time -- industry sources said it bid both with its usual European ally Unisource as well as on its own account and there are also rumours it is in talks with Bouygues.
Bouygues and AT&amp;T had no comment on the rumours.
SNCF declined to name the bidders and said it had recently asked them for more details on their bids before taking a decision.
The SNCF network could be a vital part in any operator's plans, cutting the time to set up a network in time for the 1998 start of competition as well as reducing investment needs.
Telecom Developpement, like any future rival to France Telecom, will have to contribute to the costs of running the public service of telecommunications which will remain assured by the national operator.
A first tranche of 20 percent in France Telecom is expected to be floated on the share market this spring.
British media group EMAP Plc on Monday ended a damaging boardroom row when its shareholders voted to oust two rebel non-executive directors, who had contested changes to the company's articles.
Shareholders backed the board and voted overwhelmingly in favour of resolutions seeking the removal of dissidents Ken Simmonds and Joe Cooke in a poll called at an extraordinary general meeting.
More than 109.2 million votes were registered in favour of each of the resolutions and 12.3 million against.
"I am confident that with these two resolutions passed, the board will be fully united and ready to give full attention to your company's business," chairman Sir John Hoskyns told shareholders at the EGM.
Simmonds, who has been a non-executive director of EMAP for 15 years, struck a conciliatory tone after what had been a bitter dispute.
"Catharsis and thinking about the future are good things. EMAP is going to continue to be great," he said.
EMAP shares, which had fallen from a 1996 high of 790p in the last two months as the dispute worsened, firmed 5p to 735.
The row centred on the removal of a provision for a minimum of five non-executive directors and another change allowing a director to be ousted on a 75 percent board majority without an EGM being called.
The changes were approved at the company's annual general meeting in July. Cooke and Simmonds had continued to oppose them, arguing that they transferred too much power from shareholders to the board.
"You should ensure that the board is your board," Simmonds told the EGM. "The board may now adjust itself quietly and without any notice to you."
Hoskyns said that the board had not been able to function properly while the dispute simmered.
EMAP has been one of Britain's fastest growing companies in recent years, selling out of its original regional newspaper business and expanding its UK local radio operations and its consumer magazine interests at home and in France.
It last month reported pre-tax profit of 50.6 million pounds ($85.2 million) in the first half of its current financial year on turnover of 388.3 million pounds.'
Hoskyns, who is 69 and intends to retire in 1998, denied press reports that he backed chief executive Robin Miller as his successor. Miller joined the company in 1965 as a reporter with Motor Cycle News magazine.
He also dismissed talk of a rift between Miller and managing director David Arculus.
"Robin and David have worked in partnership since 1974. That partnership has always been based on hard thinking, vigorous argument and mutual trust," he said. ($1=.5936 Pound)
Brian Stewart, chief executive of brewer to leisure group Scottish and Newcastle Plc, said on Monday he expected an improved performance from its Center Parcs holiday resorts in the second half.
"We would expect Center Parcs to be much more on the front foot in the second half and we would quite clearly spell out that conditions in Germany are now more positive," said Stewart in an interview.  
S&amp;N's profits from Center Parcs fell 11.4 percent to 38.9 million stg in the first half due to the weak economic background in mainland Europe and the cost of improving its parcs in Holland and Belgium.
The company sold its smallest village at Lommerbergen, Holland and had to close its De Eemhof parc in the Benelux while it upgraded the centre.  
"There were three hits to profits on Center Parcs. One million from the strength of sterling against the guilder, one million in redundancy for restructuring in the Benelux and 1.3 million from the effective closure of Eemhof while we were restructuring the centre," said Stewart.
He said no more new parcs would be built until consumer demand improves in mainland Europe. However, even in the absence of any pick-up in consumers leisure spending the Center Parcs business will do better in the second half, said Stewart.  
S&amp;N's leisure business, which includes Pontin's holiday camps, represented the one drag on its half-year results, with its other two divisions, beer and pubs, both performing strongly.
The inclusion of Courage, acquired from Australian brewer Foster's last year, for its first full half-year pushed operating profits on the beer side by 67 percent to 89.9 million.
Margins improved on beer sales, both for take-home and in pubs and restaurants, but this meant giving up unprofitable sales, resulting in a small loss of market share for S&amp;N.  
S&amp;N posted trading profits up 8.2 percent at 87 million stg from its pub division, driven by its managed outlets where like- for-like food sales grew by 13 percent as the company developed more restaurants.
S&amp;N will increase its capital expenditure by 25 percent from last year's level to 120 million stg at the end of its current financial year, said Stewart.
The company will open 35 new Chef &amp; Brewer pub restaurants by the year-end and push the Barras &amp; Co community pub brand very strongly, he said.  
"We will really be pushing down the accelerator on our community pubs Barras. Our focus has previously been on the high street or city centre and these community pubs really have a great deal of potential," said Stewart.
However, profits from the company's tenanted pubs fell some 9.0 percent to 11.8 million. The company sold 100 pubs in the first half period, reducing its number of tenanted pubs by 14 percent and managed outlets by 3 percent giving it a total estate of about 2,600 pubs.
The sales mean S&amp;N has now met its obligation to government to reduce the size of its pub estate as a condition of the company being allowed to acquire Courage.
"Overall, I think our 10 percent dividend increase, at the top end of the range, is a measure of our confidence for the second half of the year. General trading conditions are at least as good as they were this time last year and there has been a bit of an improvement in mainland Europe," said Stewart.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
The higher minimum wage signed into law Tuesday will be welcome relief for millions of workers, but it may also translate into higher prices for hamburgers, pizzas and other fast-food items, some restaurant chains said.
The 90-cent-an-hour increase will have little short-term impact on many fast-food chains that already pay workers rates above the federally mandated minimum.
But in the long run, industry officials fear that workers already earning above the new minimum wage, which will rise to $5.15 an hour next year, will be looking for more.
"What we're concerned about is the ripple effect it brings," said Bruce Cotton, chief spokesman for Long John Silver's Restaurants Inc. in Lexington, Ky.
"Our average crew wage is about $5.20 (an hour) so short-term there is not going to be any impact," said Denny Lynch, spokesman for Wendy's International Inc., which operates about 4,300 restaurants in the United States.
President Clinton signed into law the first increase in the minimum wage in five years, boosting it by 50 cents to $4.75 on Oct. 1 and 40 cents more to $5.15 on Sept. 1, 1997.
The White House estimates the new law will mean a raise for about 10 million American workers, many of them in restaurants and stores.
Most small businesses had opposed the increase, saying it would prompt them to hire fewer people, particularly young people looking for entry-level jobs.
But some economists argued that the negative effects of an increase in the wage, first imposed by the federal government in 1938 at 25 cents an hour, would be minimal.
To help get the bill through the Republican-controlled Congress, a package of about $22 billion in tax breaks aimed mostly at small businesses was added to the measure.
As a result of the higher minimum wage, American Restaurant Partners L.P., which operates 62 Pizza Hut restaurant franchises, expects its total wage costs will rise $500,000 over the next 12 months.
"If you raise someone who started in the last two months (to the new minimum wage level), you also have to raise everybody else," said Terry Freund, chief financial officer of American Restaurant Partners.
To compensate, the Wichita, Kan.-based restaurant operator hopes to raise prices by about 3 percent. The risk, Freund added, is that higher prices will keep some customers away or prompt them to scale back on the pizzas or other items they normally order.
Beyond the minimum wage requirements, competition for workers -- from cooks to delivery drivers to counter staff -- has forced many fast-food chains to pay up to hire good help, particularly in metropolitan markets. That competition is being driven by an increase in restaurant openings, particularly fast-food and casual dining establishments.
"There are neighbourhoods where we have to pay $6.00 an hour to $6.50 or $7.00 to get" good workers, Wendy's Lynch said. "The competition is setting the wage."
Fast-food industry executives said there has been competition for workers since the late 1980s, although the increase in restaurant openings is making the search for employees more intense.
Another problem for fast-food chains is wage competition from other employers. A fast-food worker, for example, may be able to earn $50 or $60 a night in tips at a casual dining establishment, executives said.
"For QSRs (quick service restaurants) ... it's even tougher to keep the kids," said Roger Lipton, president of Lipton Financial Services.
Investment bank Macquarie Bank Ltd reported on Monday a record result for the six months ended September 30, and started the second half optimistically.
Macquarie Bank, which is 13.4 percent owned by the Brunei Investment Agency (BIA), reported a 21.3 percent rise in first half net profit to A$46.03 million in the first half of 1996/97.
"This was a very solid first half result and one which reflects more even contributions fom business groups across the bank," executive chairman David Clarke said.  
"Although it is too early to make a forecast, we are optimistic about the second half," Clarke said.
While the 1995/96 second half was very strong, he said the bank was hopeful it could at least match the result.
"There has been nothing to change that view following the trading for the first two months of this half."
Managing director Allan Moss said the equities, treasury and commodities group accounted for most of the first half rises.
"The Treasury and Commodities Group's first half result is the best since the formation of the group in 1993," Moss said.  
"The strong result in the Equities Group reflects good performances from institutional and corporate stockbroking and underwriting," Moss said.
Moss said the near 400 percent increase in profit from its stockbroking arm, Macquarie Equities Ltd, was due partly to an increase in market share, but mainly due to market volume.
Macquarie's Direct Investment division, which manages the Macquarie Investment Trusts, also had a good result, Moss said.
The bank was currently very active right across all its operations, Moss said. "We are busy right across the board. There is a lot of activity in all our operations," he said.  
Macquarie said total operating income rose to A$232.69 million in the half, from A$190.21 million a year earlier.
The Brunei government-owned BIA became Macquarie's largest shareholder after it bought Lloyds TSB Plc's 13.4 percent stake for A$151.7 million last week.
Macquarie's chairman said there had been a good reaction to the link with BIA.
"We have had a very positive reaction from a number of existing clients, particularly in southeast Asia. I think it has been widely acclaimed in southeast Asia that it would lead to more business in the region," Clarke said.  
Macquarie, which listed in late July, reported a net profit of A$93.17 million in the year to March 31, 1996, up from A$76.07 million a year earlier.
Clarke said Macquarie had no plans to return capital to shareholders or to make a takeover due to its high capital adequacy ratio (CAR). Macquarie's CAR was 13.6 percent at September 30, down from 15.4 percent at March 31, 1996.
This ratio compares with the Reserve Bank of Australia's minimum requirement of eight percent.
"As far as any prospect of share acquisition or buy-back, we have nothing in mind yet," Clarke said.  
"I think it is the nature of our business to have a capital adequacy ratio that is higher than the trading banks because we are very dependent on counter-party limits from other banks, they in turn are quite dependent on ratings...it is a healthy capital adequacy ratio and I think we can expect to be well and truly above the basic minimum," Clarke said.
At 2.00 p.m. (0300 GMT), Macquarie shares were 11 cents lower at A$8.55 with about 160,000 shares traded in a generally weaker Australian sharemarket.
The shares listed on the local bourse in July at A$6.95.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Hundreds of thousands of tonnes of copper have moved through Chinese customs into central stocks and are staying put, despite fears the metal could be sold to take advantage of current high prices, traders said on Monday.
"It was a good decision to buy good quality metal at 85 to 90 (U.S.) cents a pound; now they are feeling smug," a South American industry executive said of China's central authorities.
"It is central buying, there is no doubt about that because none of it is moving out," he said.
China recently boosted central copper reserves by 300,000 tonnes, with most of it now having cleared customs formalities, although a lag in Chinese customs reporting may keep the figures off the books for a couple of months, trading sources said.
Few Chinese trading companies would have the financial resources to buy and then store substantial amounts of copper, a Shanghai trader said.
The recent surge in world spot prices had been expected to fuel a flow of Chinese material on to the world market.
But a modest rise last week in stocks held in London Metal Exchange (LME) warehouses in Singapore -- traders said about 3,000 tonnes -- indicated the Chinese material was staying home.
"It's a piddling amount," a trader in Hong Kong said of the increase in stocks in Singapore.
LME copper trading has been volatile in recent weeks, with a moderate rise in stocks on Friday, the first since early September, pushing prices down on profit-taking and liquidation.
Three months copper finished Friday at US$2,242, bouncing off support around $2,220 in the afternoon ring, dealers said.
Losses were kept to a minimum, they said, as market jitters centred on the upcoming December options declaration. The main concern was if December copper came close to $2,600, where there was a large concentration of open interest on calls.
With LME stocks at 92,475 tonnes and the spot price at 2,470.50, the LME does not have enough copper to cover calls with a strike price of $2,600, which total 168,750 tonnes.
Traders in Asia seemed largely uninterested in the Wednesday options expiry as China is seen to be flush with copper and not interested in selling.
What little movement there has been out of China, some of which was possibly included in the 3,000-tonne hike in Singapore, was in small lots of probably no more than 1,000 tonnes at a time, the Shanghai trader said.
While China was neither actively buying nor selling now, it would have to boost imports to keep pace with demand next year, traders said.
"The market is physically tight so it is very good for the producers," a marketing executive with a major producer said.
He said China's crackdown on scrap imports, coupled with expected casualties among domestic smelters, would lead to total Chinese copper imports in 1997 of 830,000 tonnes.
The opening in February or March of a new smelter in Anhui province near the top-of-the-line Tongling smelter would account for an increase over 1996, he said.
Official customs figures show January to October 1996 imports of cast and unwrought copper were up 28.8 percent on 1995, to 549,571 tonnes, with October imports 82,655 tonnes.
The new smelter, a joint venture between Tongling and Japan's Itochu Corp and Sumitomo Corp had already booked 210,000 tonnes of concentrate imports for the year, the marketing executive said.
"They are looking at smelting 330,000 tonnes of concentrate, and producing 110,000 tonnes of metal," he said.
In other base metal markets, premiums to Hong Kong remained largely unchanged. The latest Hong Kong indications of premium or discount in US$/tonne over LME cash prices on a CIF basis:
				Dec 2			   Nov 25
    COPPER		   100			     100
    ALUMINIUM Western     65-75			   65-75
    CIS N/A N/A
    LEAD		     130			     130
    ZINC (Chinese)	   N/A			     N/A
	   (Western)	 120-130			 120-130
($1=8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
China is cleaning up its market for mutual funds to prepare them to become a key vehicle to channel huge bank deposits back into the economy and stabilise its volatile stock markets, analysts said on Monday.
Among the most important steps, Beijing last week lifted a three-year ban on new listings of stock investment funds and has said it will shortly promulgate a set of rules governing the management of such funds.
Three funds listed last week surged as investors sought to buy into what analysts see becoming a major focus for the market in the months ahead.
The first effort to establish investment funds in the early 1990s collapsed in disarray because of a lack of adequate regulations and supervision with many losing money.
A total of 75 funds were set up, but only a few received approval from the central bank, and only 22 have been listed on China's two stock exchanges. Investors in unlisted funds will be unable to recover their cash for years to come.
"The central government first of all wants to clean up the fund market," said Shao Jiejun, a manager at Shenyin &amp; Wanguo Securities which manages Baoding Fund, one of China's existing stock investment funds.
"The fund money is expected to gradually flow into stocks, which should benefit the market greatly," he added.
At the moment, less than 10 percent of the money in existing funds is invested in stocks, Zhou Daojiong, chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), told a recent seminar in Beijing.
"Quality of fund managers is poor," Zhou was quoted by the China Securities as saying. "There have been many cases of irregularities and some funds have been used to participate in market manipulation and insider trading."
Most of the money was invested by the fund managers in industry and real estate projects two or three years ago when the stock markets were in a deep slide.
"Time is needed for old funds to withdraw from industrial and real estate projects and to establish new funds," said Xu Zhiling, deputy general manager of the securities trading department of China Guotai Securities.
Beijing has given strong indications that it supports the establishment of new investment funds and sees them as a major means of funnelling money from bank deposits, currently at record levels of more than three trillion yuan ($361.4 billion), back into the economy.
Experts say the authorities want to gradually replace the system of bank loans which currently support enterprises with a share system in which firms obtain money through investment rather than borrowing.
China's two stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen also suffer from huge volatility because of an absence of large funds and institutional money providing a non-speculative base to trading, they said.
Currently, stock funds account for less than one percent of China's stock investment with the share market being dominated by retail investors, searching for quick profits instead of long-term investment, Shanghai brokers said.
In new rules to be issued shortly, there will be provisions that require stock funds to invest at least 60 percent of their cash in securities, industry sources said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
America Online Inc's new flat rate pricing plan and moves to meet spiraling subscriber demand suggest AOL is securely on course for becoming a major media player comparable to broadcast or cable TV networks.
But analysts caution that underlying this success looms a real threat that the online network's capacity to serve its more than seven million subscribers could soon be overwhelmed.
They warn that the additional demand on AOL's network generated by the company's offer of unlimited usage for $19.95 per month imperil its near-term capacity to handle demand.  
If only a small fraction of AOL's millions of members were to take up the company's offer of unlimited access and remain connected to the service for long periods of the day, the service would quickly grind to a halt, detractors say.
Clearly, investors are betting the company can surmount such challenges, as AOL has done repeatedly in mushrooming sevenfold from under one million users three years ago.
In recent weeks, the stock's momentum has revived, doubling from a year-low of 22 to reach 44 earlier Tuesday. An afternoon sell-off caused the stock to fall back to 37-1/2.  
"The market appears to have taken a very bullish view of the new pricing scheme," said Arthur Newman, an analyst with brokerage firm Gerard Klauer of the stock's recent run-up.
"But you have to balance this with the realization that the more time users spend online, the higher the cost of adding capacity" requiring new equipment investments, he said.
"All of a sudden its free candy at the candy store," Newman said of the paradoxical downside of a sudden explosion in demand. Although a long-time follower of AOL, the analyst currently maintains no stock recommendation on the stock.  
To be fair, AOL officials have warned repeatedly that they expect the next two quarters to be transitional, both operationally and financially, as the company shifts to a new business model that derives revenues from advertising and commercial transactions instead of mainly subscriber fees.
But Abishek Gami, an analyst with Nesbitt Burns Securities, believes AOL has proven its capacity to weather the pressures of the explosively growing online medium. In particular, AOL has measures in place to limit excessive connection times by users who now have little incentive to disconnect and free up pressure network time for others.  
"Will this demand on its network be enough to destroy the company? I think not. What the company will do is build-out to meet demand and stage a comeback," said Gami, who maintains a strong buy rating on AOL stock.
Gary Arlen, a veteran online industry analyst at Arlen Communications Inc in Bethesda, Md, agreed.
"Anyone who is writing this company's obituary is going to be disappointed," he said.
Monday, AOL said it was undertaking a major expansion of its online network and planned to spend $250 million by next June to double its network capacity and improve service.  
Gami estimated the company has about 200,000 modems now available to handle incoming customer calls for its online service and that this number will rise to about 400,000 by next June, the end of its fiscal year.
In its Monday announcement, the world's largest online service provider said it was upgrading its network to meet the surge in demand generated by its new pricing and recent marketing initiatives.
As of Sunday, AOL began offering the new flat-rate pricing plan, one of several pricing options available to customers.  
An America Online spokesman said that, despite heavy usage over the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, there were no serious problems with its online network.
The Dulles, Va.-based company said that, since July 1, it has added tens of thousands of new modems to AOLnet, which it said was the world's largest dial-in network. The expansion is to accelerate through the spring with tens of thousands of new modems being installed monthly.
Analysts said that, with more new users expected, AOL needs to upgrade its network, especially after its nearly 19 hour outage on August 7, which happened during regular maintenance caused by a software glitch and angered many users.
Already this quarter, AOL's subscriber growth is on the rebound and, in October, the company added 275,000 new members. In the summer, AOL was hurt by a seasonal slowdown in subscriber growth, a phenomenon common to all online services.
Still, in its latest quarterly SEC filing, AOL said profit margins will be hurt in the near-term and it is only likely to break into profitability again in the June 1997 quarter.
Czech President Vaclav Havel, the only man who can smoke next to militant Hollywood anti-smoker Barbra Streisand, is facing a life without his beloved cigarettes after surgery revealed a cancerous lung.
Havel's heavy smoking is a fixture of his Bohemian intellectual image, but it is widely believed that it caused the malignant tumour which was radically removed on Monday.
It certainly startled some Czechs who awoke on Tuesday to a huge headline in the tabloid Blesk which simply bleated "CANCER" next to an archive picture of a happily-smoking Havel.
But just as Boris Yeltsin's multiple by-pass heart surgery will hardly dry up a Muscovite's taste for vodka, which many blamed for the Russian president's ills, Havel's surgery probably will not cause chain-smoking Czechs to kick the habit.
"Ooh, I should quit," said Hana Haskova, a 19-year-old student reacting to news of Havel's cancer. "Well, I probably won't, but I'll be forced to think about it when I smoke."
Doctors said the surgery, which cost the 60-year-old Havel half of his right lung, gave him good prospects for a full recovery, and he might return to work soon after the new year.
But his spokesman said that Havel, a multiple-pack-a-day man, will probably be limited to being a "holiday smoker lighting up once a week with afternoon coffee."
The world sees Havel like this -- the mustached but impish Bohemian philospher-playwright crumpled in a sweater, cigarette smoke pouring from his fingers as he mulls life's problems.
His dissident musings from a prison cell won the respect of the western world and helped spark Prague's non-violent 1989 "Velvet Revolution" over communism.
"Vaclav Havel is the only person who can smoke in my presence," said Barbra Streisand, one of America's prominent anti-smokers, at a Washington picnic last year in honour of the visiting Czech President.
The unlikely rise from prison to Prague Castle made Havel one of the most famous unabashed public smokers.
But news of Havel's cancer confirmed what many here feared when he entered hospital last week with an alleged case of pnuemonia -- his ubiquitous smoking caught up with him.
Czech surgeon Dr. Pavel Pafko said after performing the operation that it would be difficult to pinpoint smoking as the primary cause of Havel's cancer.
"The composition of this tumour is problematic in relation to smoking. You can't definitely tell," Pafko told reporters.
But to many Czechs, the cause was clear:
"It has to be the smoking," was the oft-repeated phrase of workers in central Prague, many of them smokers.
"Stopping now won't help anyway. I was smoking before you were born," said Karel, 43, a maintenence man puffing away over beer in one of the hundreds of Prague's smoke-blanketed pubs.
Dr. Pavko said Havel smoked one last pre-surgery cigarette with Jan Strasky, a chain smoker who happens also to be minister of health, whose warning on smoking's link to cancer is on every legally-sold pack of cigarettes in the country.
Havel, as many Czechs, came of age smoking heavy Communist cigarettes, and has moved to more expensive western brands.
A country of 10 million people smokes 23 billion cigarettes each year. Consumption has grown from five cigarettes per day to more than six averaged out for every man, woman, and child.
Amid an influx of western brands -- U.S. Philip Morris bought a controlling stake in the former monopoly state tobacco packager, and has made Marlboro a status symbol -- Havel vetoed measures to regulate public smoking and cigarette advertising.
The president once also was blamed for a nuclear alert by lighting up while touring a power plant, but an official re-enactment of the incident declared it was photographers' flashes, not Havel's smoke, which set off the alarm.
LucasVarity Plc, the U.S.-Anglo auto components giant formed in September, announced a major restructuring Tuesday, including the planned disposal of 13 non-core businesses and the elimination of 3,000 jobs over two years.
LucasVarity said it had identified a range of additional moves that will mean an extra 120 million British pounds ($200 million) in profit benefits -- double the level anticipated just three months ago when the company was formed in the merger of Lucas Industries of Britain and Varity Corp. of Buffalo, N.Y.
Worldwide employment will be cut by 3,000 over the next two years as a result of the moves, the company said.
LucasVarity said it also will take an extra one-time charge of 130 million pounds ($217 million), mainly in non-cash items, along with 120 million pounds ($200 million) in charges already planned for this year.
Thirteen companies were identified for sale in a three-month post-merger review, although only eight were named in the restructuring announcement -- all small businesses in Britain, Argentina and South Africa.
Chief Executive Victor Rice said in an interview that the company was "sifting through some offers" and expected to be in "active negotiations" on the sale of some of the 13 units quite soon.
Rice said major businesses like aerospace and electronics were not among the unnamed five.
The criteria for divestment were those firms which "neither fitted into the core strategy of the company or contributed economic added value," Rice said.
Rice, who came from Varity, said the post-divestment savings were "virtually double" original expectations.
LucasVarity is involved in the design, manufacture and supply of systems, products and services in international automotive, diesel engine, aftermarket and aerospace industries.
Both parties in the merger specialised in braking systems and industry sources expected that many of the measures would affect production and employment in these units.
Anglo-U.S. autocomponents giant LucasVarity unveiled a major corporate shake-up on Tuesday planning 13 non-core disposals and a speeded-up rationalisation which will axe 3,000 jobs worldwide over two years.
LucasVarity, created by a merger earlier this year of Britain's Lucas Industries and Varity Corp of the U.S., said it had identified a range of additional restructuring plans that meant it now saw operating savings of 120 million pounds ($200.2 million) -- double the level anticipated after the merger.
The market initially welcomed the news and the company's shares jumped to a new 12-month high of 263 pence. But downbeat company comments about the auto industry during a telephone conference call to analysts sent the stock slumping to close a sharp 16.5 pence lower at 234p.
"They said that things were relatively tough in France and in the heavy truck market, particularly in Europe, and that they weren't immune to the trends we are seeing in the (competitive) market," said one analyst, who declined to be named.
LucasVarity expects to take an extra one-off charge of 130 million pounds, mainly in non-cash items, which will be levied along with 120 million pounds of costs already planned for current year accounts.
Worldwide headcount will be cut by 3,000 over the next two years as a result of the moves, the company said.
Thirteen companies have been marked up for sale after the three-month review which came in the wake of the multi-billion pounds merger between Britain's Lucas Industries and Varity Corp of the U.S. which became effective in September this year.
Commenting on the speed of disposals, Victor Rice, chief executive, told Reuters the group was "sifting through some offers" and expected to be in "active negotiations" on the sale of some of the 13 quite soon.
Only eight of the 13 businesses marked for sale were named in the restructuring statement released earlier. Rice said that major businesses like aerospace and electronics were not among the unnamed five.
The eight named so far are small niche businesses and include starter and alternator firms in Britain, Argentina and South Africa. The 13 disposal targets have combined sales of 270 million pounds.
The criteria for divestment were those firms which "neither fitted into the core strategy of the company or contributed economic added value," said Rice.
Commenting on the rationalisation moves, Rice, who came from the Varity side of the merger, said "the combination of cost savings and anticipated revenue growth identified by these teams will help the company achieve the aggressive performance targets it has set for itself."
He said the post-demerger savings were "virtually double" original expectations. The process of cost cutting would continue he added, concluding that he was "pretty excited for the future" of the merged business.
LucasVarity is involved in the design, manufacture and supply of systems, products and services in international automotive, diesel engine, aftermarket and aerospace industries.
Both parties in the merger specialised in braking systems and industry sources expected that many of the rationalisation measures would affect production and employment in these units. ($1=.5995 Pound)
Chemicals group Courtaulds Plc is targeting sales growth of at least 10 percent a year up to the end of the century at its key coatings business as it reaps the fruits of a major modernisation drive and Far Eastern expansion.
Speaking to journalists at a recent presentation, Courtaulds European Coatings finance director Bob Wheeler said the group's multi-million pound restructuring of its European and U.S coating operations launched in 1994 was starting to pay off.
"The profits coming through now are...partly because of our Far East expansion, but also because of the restructuring programmes we have got in place in Europe and the U.S," he said.
Courtaulds will have spent around 75 million pounds ($125 million) on reorganising and updating its European manufacturing base -- centred in Britain, France, Germany, Sweden and Spain -- by the end of 1998.
Wheeler said a similar amount was being spent in the United States.
The coatings and sealants division supplies specialist paint and protective products to the marine and aerospace sectors as well as powder coatings for a wide range of products including cars, buildings and washing machines.
In the six months through September 30, sales at the division rose 4.6 percent to 501 million pounds. This represented around 47 percent of the group's total.
But Wheeler said the group had much greater ambitions.
"I think we would be disappointed if we weren't growing the business by 10 percent per annum through organic growth ... up to the end of the century," Wheeler said.
He said the division was also benefiting from Courtauld's decision in the early 1990s to get out of low margin businesses such as general industrial coatings and household paints and to exploit its long-standing presence in fast-growing Asia.
Courtaulds has built on its presence in Hong Kong, where it has been represented since the 1950s, to the point where it is involved in every major market in the region.
Asian growth was a major factor behind the rise in the division's first-half sales.
Courtauld's Coatings had chosen its marine and yacht coatings site at Felling in northeast England as one of six prototype factories for improvements in quality, productivity and safety which it planned to roll out across the division's 70-plus sites around the world, Wheeler said.
Using U.S. chemicals giant EI Du Pont de Nemours as its benchmark for safety standards and Nippon Paint for best practise in working methods, Courtaulds said it had already transformed the operation at Felling.
Wheeler said investment at the site, which is expected to total around 10 million pounds, had resulted in output doubling to 400 litres of paint per man hour in just two years, while wastage had more than halved.
Last month the site won an award sponsored by corporate advisers KPMG for most improved British factory in competition with more than 200 other British plants.
Wheeler said the transformation of the site, which Courtaulds had operated for more than 100 years, "was about people, training and the equipment we use." He said Felling was now "a genuinely world class site."
($1=.5995 Pound)
Regional brewer Marston, Thompson &amp; Evershad Plc on Tuesday reported an 8.5 percent decline in sales of its key brand ale Marston Pedigree in the first half of the year due to the rising popularity of so-called nitrokegs.
But the ale increased its market share by one percent as its competitors real ales suffered even more. Overall sales of the company's own brewed beers rose 0.5 percent and it launched its own nitrokeg, Marston's Bitter Smoothbrewed, in the Spring.
"Nitrokeg is having quite an effect in terms of market share," said chief executive David Gordon in an interview.  
The company's shares were 5p lower at 275p. But the country's two largest brewers -- Scottish &amp; Newcastle and Bass -- who boast a huge portfolio of brands, saw their shares rise.
S&amp;N shares were up 6p at 667p after announcing an unexpectedly strong 26 percent rise in its half year profits on Monday. Unlike traditional beers, nitrokegs do not undergo a secondary fermentation in the cask.  
Brewers have scurried to launch their own nitrokegs after the runaway success of Bass-owned Caffrey's, which sold fast in the scorching 1995 summer.
Caffrey's, served chilled, has taken traditional real ale drinkers away from warmer ales and also attracted premium lager drinkers.
Earlier Marston, Thompson reported a 5.3 percent increase in its pretax profits to 14.7 million stg in the half year ended September 28, driven by strong food and liquor sales in its managed estate.  
Food sales were up by 18.9 percent and now account for 30.8 percent of total sales in its managed pub estate. The company's managed estate of 242 pubs made operating profits of 9.4 million up 12.2 percent.
"There is no evidence that demand is dropping. The average spend per head is seven pounds for food and the retired elderly and the young can afford to do that maybe two or three times a week," said Gordon.
"I feel there is a touch more consumer confidence," he said, adding conditions were better now than for six or seven years.
In a separate statement, Belhaven Brewery said it managed to increase sales of Belhaven Best despite tougher competition from other nitrokegs. Belhaven shares were unchanged at 188p.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
The Toronto Stock Exchange closed weaker in heavy trading on Tuesday, hit by plunging gold stocks and a sell-off on Wall Street.
The TSE's key 300 Composite Index lost 44.24 points to finish the day at 5940.73. The Dow Jones Industrial Average in New York fell nearly 80 points to 6442, its largest loss in a single day since a 161-point drop in mid-July.
Toronto was also dragged down by its heavily weighted gold index, which fell 2.7 percent in the second day of a retreat.
"A dominant theme in Canadian markets today is gold," noted RBC Dominion Securities analyst Dunnery Best.
Turnover was brisk at 119.7 million shares worth C$2.1 billion (US$1.6 billion), Toronto's fourth highest trading value ever.
Analysts said Wall Street was submerged under a wave of profit-taking as investors decided to lock in profits and sell some stocks following recent gains.
All of Toronto's 14 sub-indices lost ground except for media and transportation. Golds led the weaker side, followed by conglomerates, base metals and utilities.
Gold stocks fell after bullion prices slipped in both London and New York.
Declining issues beat out advancing ones 575 to 424. Another 292 traded flat.
More losses may be seen ahead because investors will sell poorly-performing stocks to realize tax losses after a spectacular year, said Josef Schachter, fund manager and Schachter Asset Management Inc president.
"They usually plan on liquidating during this period of time, so they offset the gains they booked earlier in the year," Schachter said.
Shares in Bre-X Minerals Ltd., halted at the end of the day, were active today. Earlier the stock rose C$0.95 to C$18.70 on more than five million shares before the gold prospector announced it increased the resource calculation of its Busang gold discovery in Indonesia by 10.4 million ounces of gold to 57.3 million ounces.
Barrick Gold Corp. is still in the midst of negotations with Bre-X over ownership of the deposit. The Indonesian government set a December 4 deadline for a deal between the two.
Placer Dome Inc. and other miners said said they would challenge Barrick for control of Bre-X's discovery by pressuring the Indonesian government to allow competing offers.
However the Indonesian government said on Tuesday it was expected confirmation tomorrow of a deal between Bre-X and Barrick. It did not mention other potential partners. Barrick fell C$1.70 to C$37.85 and Placer dipped C$0.45 to C$30.60.
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan surged C$5.05 to end at C$108.50. The fertilizer firm told clients it planed to riase domestic potash prices in mid-February.
Some of the world's most influential gold producers are upping the ante as a December 4 deadline edges closer for Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd to make a deal with gold giant Barrick Gold Corp.
At stake is the rich Busang gold deposit in Indonesia. New estimates released on Tuesday suggest the discovery contains more than 57 million ounces of gold that can be mined at the low cost of US$96 an ounce.
The Indonesian government has virtually mandated that Bre-X must carve up its find, with Barrick getting 75 percent of Bre-X's stake and Bre-X 25 percent.
And the government of President Suharto has also made it plain it would "appreciate" a stake of 10 percent in Busang.
But now, some major figures in the gold mining world are protesting that the deal ordered by Indonesia is unprecedented and unfair. They are pressuring Jakarta to allow rival bids.
"I think it's Bre-X's natural right to have a say who their partner will be," John Willson, chief executive officer of Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc, told Reuters in an interview on Tuesday.
Placer Dome, Canada's second biggest gold company and one of the world's largest, wants to bid on Busang, and Willson said Newmont Mining Corp and Teck Corp have also been at the negotiating table for months.
The three heavyweight mining companies were abruptly shut out of the process last month when Indonesia forced Bre-X into Barrick's arms.
Analysts have suggested Barrick used its business connections with Suharto's eldest daughter, as well as political connections through Barrick advisers former U.S. President George Bush and former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, to sway the Indonesian government.
"We were clearly disappointed -- that's a nice way of putting it -- that all of a sudden the thing went away from us," Willson said in an interview. "Something has been going on that is not kosher in the West."
Willson said he believes the Indonesian government can be persuaded to consider other offers for Busang. Otherwise, the country would face international condemnation and risk losing foreign investment, said Willson.
"This is indeed unusual," he said. "The message to the whole market is we risk our money big time to find gold, and if we really find the jackpot, somebody's going to come along and tell us what to do with it.
"It would put a great big red flag on Indonesia," he added.
Placer, Newmont and Teck must now await word from Indonesian government on whether they will be allowed back into the bidding process.
Indonesia's consulate in Toronto declined to comment on the matter on Tuesday. Newmont Mining also would not comment.
Teck's chief financial officer, John Taylor, said the company would consider bidding for Busang if Indonesia opens the door to an auction process, but would likely seek a partner in any bid.
"That's a pretty big bite," said Taylor.
Willson, however, noted Placer Dome could comfortably afford to take on Busang alone, despite a recent US$600 million bid for a larger stake in Papua New Guinea's Porgera gold deposit.
He would not say what price Placer was willing to offer, but "it's clearly worth considerably more that what's being contemplated," he said after looking at the new resource calculations for Busang.
The resource calculations are in line with analysts' expectations, said mining analyst Bruno Kaiser with CIBC-Wood Gundy in Toronto, who noted that most analysts believe Busang holds a lot more gold than has already been outlined.
Kaiser said he was not concerned about the December 4 deadline ticking past without news from Jakarta.
"My take on it is that the Indonesian government imposed this December 4 deadline primarily as a means to facilitate bids and get the process moving," he said. "You get everyone who is interested and serious stepping up."
But analyst Catherine Gignac with Deacon Capital in Toronto expressed doubts about the Indonesian government soliciting more suitors for Bre-X. "Why should the Indonesian government provide the market with a bidding process just because we want them to?" she said.
North America's gold miners are not alone in seeking a piece of Busang. Bre-X's Indonesian partner Jusuf Merukh has claimed up to 40 percent of the deposit. And the former Australian owners of the property say they also have rights to part of the riches.
Barrick closed at C$37.85, down C$1.70, on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday. Bre-X was halted at C$18.70, up 0.95, when trading was halted for the new resource calculation. Placer Dome lost 0.45 to close at 30.60.
The Czech Republic's sole supplier of natural gas, Russia's Gazprom, has agreed to start talks on a long-term supply deal, Industry and Trade minister Vladimir Dlouhy said on Tuesday.
He said the talks would focused on a contract for supplies of 8.9 billion cubic metres (bcm) per year.
"Today's offer respects this conclusion (of the Czech government to diversify supplies)," Dlouhy told a news conference after meeting Gazprom chairman Rem Vyakhirev.
"That means supplies of only 8.9 bcm, and an agreement to start negotiations on a long-term contract. I consider this to be a good result," he said.
The Czech Republic currently imports all of its roughly nine bcm of natural gas a year from Gazprom under a three-year contract ending in 1998, extendable for another three years.
Dlouhy said Gazprom had accepted that the Czechs want to partially diversify their gas supplies.
"Until now, they have been trying to save the 100 percent coverage. Today they came with an offer -- not all supplies from Russia," he added.
The consumption is expected to rise to about 12 to 13 bcm per year in several years. The country wants to cover the increase from alternative sources.
Dlouhy's deputy, Miroslav Tvrznik, told reporters that the aim was to bring the contract with Gazprom to "a European standard of 15 to 25 years".
Dlouhy said talks would start with several potential partners to choose how to diversify the supplies. These talks would be included in a report to the full cabinet which should make a "more concrete" decision next January, Dlouhy said.
"We would want to have the first supplies from diversified sources already in the year 1997," he said.
He added that some of the options would include buying Russian gas through an intermediary, possibly through Dutch company Nederlandse Gasunie NV, and Germany's Wintershall, a subsidiary of BASF.
Dlouhy said these partners would provide a guarantee of supplying from their own sources in case of emergency.
He also said an earlier announced option of buying some gas from Norway was still under consideration, and said that Germany's  BEB Erdgas und Erdoil, or U.S.-based Mobil could serve as "supplementary sources".
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Russia, whose sudden introduction of export curbs each winter can wreak havoc in the world's heavy fuel oil market, is unsure about what to do this season, traders said on Tuesday.
Most traders expected an export duty of up to 80,000 roubles per tonne of mazut, as heavy fuel oil is known in Russian. But Moscow is keeping the industry guessing longer than usual on the timing and size of a possible tariff.
"My crystal ball is broken, so you'll have to ask somebody else," said a senior source at a major Western trading house.
Yevgeny Lukashov, adviser to the Federal Energy Commission and close to the government's debate on how to regulate mazut exports, said the cabinet might debate the issue on Tuesday.
But he had no idea what the outcome would be.
Moscow has in recent years raised mazut export tariffs or banned deliveries abroad outright, which has conditioned traders to expect a restriction each winter.
But some industry sources questioned why Russia -- which usually slaps the curbs on in November to ensure cheap heating fuel supplies for factories and power plants -- is already in December with no decision yet on the matter.
Sarah Anderson of Energy Security Analysis Inc in Washington said Russia, which must ship some mazut to domestic users along its waterways before they freeze, was defeating the purpose of bolstering supplies by waiting so long.
"If you don't have a curb in place by October, the purpose is defeated. They really have to start dealing with this in October, because January is too late."
Other sources said the uncertainty over tariffs reflected not careful planning by Moscow but haphazard and inefficient decision-making based on Soviet-era thinking.
"It's item number 999 on a list of a thousand things to do," said Matthew Sagers of PlanEcon in Washington. But he said any curbs would not hit export levels because Russia was oversupplied with mazut in winter.
Others say demand at home is exceptionally difficult to fathom, since there is no domestic market and enterprises using the material are usually verging on bankruptcy.
"They'll in theory use as much as they can and pay as little as they can," one trader said, referring to traditional wasteful use of resources at factories and heating plants.
The lack of transparency makes it nearly impossible for traders to estimate how much extra mazut Russia needs during the winter and, correspondingly, what kind of tariff Moscow might slap on to achieve the supply balance it needs at home.
"It ends up going straight to users, so who knows how big the market is," a Russian trader said.
Some industry sources said an apparent shift in policy on the part of Russia's domestic oil companies was adding to the murkiness of the situation this year.
A second, senior Russian trader said the old logic of producers seeking to export to free up storage tank space and get cash, even at a net loss, was disappearing.
"The logic now is that it really might be better not to produce at all," he said, citing low refinery runs as producers seek to export crude oil instead.
The trader was one of a handful who thought there would be no curbs. "My gut feeling is there won't be a tariff. It's senseless. It could absolutely stop the trade," he said.
Others said a tariff would only dent export volumes.
"Refineries are very short of crude oil these days," said a Russian source at a Swiss trader. "But they'll still try to push something out (on world markets)."
China has approved three foreign banks to conduct local currency business, the official Shanghai Star newspaper reported Tuesday, but bankers said the deals could not start until a thorny tax rate issue was solved.
The newspaper said the three banks -- Citicorp's Citibank, Tokyo-Mitsubishi Bank and Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp. -- would be granted licenses to handle Chinese yuan business this month.
Until now, foreign banks with branches in China have been restricted to doing foreign currency business only, with Chinese banks retaining a monopoly on the huge local currency (yuan) loan and deposit market.
The Star said the banks will be allowed to handle yuan deposits, loans and other business, adding that the business would be opened to more foreign banks starting early next year.
Bankers have said they expect the business licenses to restrict them to taking deposits from and making loans to only foreign-funded firms for the foreseeable future.
An official with one of the three banks said they had not yet been given formal notification that their applications to do local currency business had been accepted.
"But the PBOC has let us know we have been chosen in a more informal way," he said, asking not to be identified.
The main problem is the differing rates at which the authorities tax the profits of banks in China. Foreign banks are taxed at 15 percent, Chinese commercial banks at 33 percent and the main state banks at 55 percent.
Bankers say there is still no agreement on how profits made by foreign banks doing local Chinese currency business would be taxed.
"That issue still rests with the State Council, it is beyond the control of the Shanghai city government, or even of the PBOC," said a foreign banker.
He said the authorities wanted to unify the tax rate between the various banks, but there were huge wrangles over what rate to choose.
"Until the tax rate issue is resolved, I doubt if the foreign banks will start any local currency business," said the banker. "They will want clarification beforehand."
China has retired its navy and air force commanders due to old age, a source familiar with the reshuffle said on Tuesday.
Admiral Zhang Lianzhong and Lieutenant General Yu Zhenwu, both 65, have stepped down as navy and air force commanders respectively, said the source who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Zhang was replaced by navy deputy commander Rear Admiral Shi Yunsheng, 56, the source said. Yu was succeeded by air force deputy commander Liu Shunyao, believed to be in his early 50s.
Communist Party boss Jiang Zemin approved the reshuffle in October in his capacity as chairman of the party's Central Military Commission, or commander-in-chief of the People's Liberation Army (PLA), the source said.
Asked if the reshuffle was intended to further consolidate Jiang's power in the military, the source said Zhang and Yu retired due to old age.
"It's professionalisation of the military," the source said.
However, a Chinese analyst said the four vice-chairmen of the Central Military Commission were already aged between 67 and 82 and still active. The two youngest vice-chairmen were appointed by Jiang.
Both the new appointees are believed to be proteges of Jiang, another analyst said. Jiang ordered the promotions of Shi and Yu to navy and air force deputy commanders in January, 1995 and December, 1994 respectively, the analyst said.
Some diplomats and Chinese analysts have dismissed Jiang as a transitional figure lacking the personal clout, political power base and administrative ability to step into the shoes of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping after the death of the 92-year-old patriarch.
But Jiang, who has no military pedigree, has moved in recent years to shore up his position in the military with a string of reshuffles.
The PLA is the world's largest armed force with three million members.
It is believed to be planning to pare that number by 500,000 in a streamlining that reflects the end of the Cold War and a desire to redirect state funds to economic development.
China's B shares continued their sensational surge on Tuesday with Shanghai's index gaining 11.63 percent and Shenzhen 4.7 percent as foreign and Chinese investors poured funds into the markets.
Trading volume on the Shanghai B share market hit a 15-month high of 63.595 with the index ending up 6.525 points or 11.63 percent at 62.639 points.
Brokers said market sentiment had been boosted by the recent strong performance of the Shenzhen B share market on expectations that Beijing plans measures to boost B share trading.
The Shenzhen B share index rose 7.42 points, or 4.70 percent, to end at 165.10.
The Shenzhen market has risen far further and faster than Shanghai in the past two weeks, but dealers said there were signs that the action was now moving north to Shanghai.
"There's a feeling that foreign investors largely missed the boat on Shenzhen and they don't want to miss out on Shanghai as well," said an analyst with a foreign brokerage in Shanghai.
ING Barings said that as a result of the heavy volume of trading, the company had today activated both its seats on the Shanghai Stock Exchange for the first time ever.
"There were signs that overseas institutions are paying more attention to B shares," one broker said. "The short-term market trend is bright."
But a second broker said the sharp rises woiuld inevitably be followed by a tumble, possibly as early as Wednesday.
"The market will see a technical correction after the sharp rise today," he said.
Shanghai Dajiang was the star on the Shanghai market, surging $0.132 or 34.37 percent to $0.516 on volume of 1.1 million shares.
Shanghai Jintai followed on bargain-hunting, soaring $0.038 or 28.78 percent to $0.170 on volume of 712,000 shares.
A foreign broker said the money coming into the market appeared to be about half-and-half foreign and domestic Chinese, in spite of the theoretical ban on local Chinese investors buying the foreign currency B shares.
Given the obvious lack of measures by the authorities to revive the supposed ban, the markets appear to be gaining confidence that local investors will not face being forced out of the market, at least for now, analysts said.
"The bull run may extend into later this week with the inflow of fresh money continuing," one broker said.
Former Archer Daniels Midland Co. executive Mark Whitacre said Tuesday he was no longer cooperating with the U.S. government in its price-fixing probe, adding yet another wrinkle to the complex antitrust case.
Whitacre, a government informant for about three years in the federal investigation of his former employer, was indicted Tuesday along with two other ex-ADM executives for conspiring to fix prices of the feed additive lysine.
Also indicted were Michael Andreas, former executive vice president and vice chairman of ADM, and Terrance Wilson, a former group vice president. Michael Andreas is also the son of ADM Chairman Dwayne Andreas.
"I have decided not to participate in the government's coverup any longer," Whitacre told Reuters.
Asked to comment on the indictment against him, Whitacre said, "I have no comment other than when all the evidence comes out in this case, the only people that will have questions yet to answer will be the Justice Department and the FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) itself."
The Justice Department did not respond to Whitacre's statement.
Legal experts said it was common for federal informants and cooperative witnesses to be indicted, though they often receive lenient treatment and light sentences in return for their cooperation.
"If the informant got too good a deal, it would diminish his credibility," said James Shapiro, a former assistant U.S. Attorney in Chicago who has no direct knowledge of the case involving ADM and Whitacre.
Whitacre's decision to stop cooperating with the government could jeopardise his treatment by the Justice Department. But antitrust attorney Champ Davis of the Chicago firm Davis, Mannix and McGrath, said Whitacre's previous cooperation could still be taken into consideration.
"He can argue, I think, that he was cooperative up to a point," said Davis, who is not involved in the ADM case. "(That) is a factor that ought to be taken into account."
By no longer cooperating -- and presumably not agreeing to testify on behalf of the government in upcoming trials against the defendants -- Whitacre could weaken the government's case somewhat, legal experts said.
"It would weaken the government's case (against Michael Andreas and Wilson) to some extent, not to have the guy who made the tapes to interpret them," Shapiro said.
While he was cooperating with federal investigators, Whitacre had said that he made hundreds of tape recordings of ADM executives allegedly in price-fixing discussions.
But the government's case was unlikely to be derailed since the tapes still could be used, Shapiro said.
In October, ADM pleaded guilty to two counts of fixing prices of lysine, a feed additive, and citric acid, which is used in food, beverages and other products. ADM also agreed to pay a $100 million fine.
A lawsuit Whitacre filed against his former employer in November stated that the government's case against ADM was based "in large part upon the information obtained from Whitacre."
Whitacre gave no further reasons for his decision to stop cooperating with the government. But he has been involved in several legal tangles since the ADM price-fixing probe first came to light in June 1995.
In August 1995, ADM fired Whitacre, who had been head of its BioProducts division, for allegedly stealing $9 million from the company. Whitacre has denied those charges, saying the money allegedly involved off-the-books bonuses that he received that were approved by company management.
ADM has sued Whitacre over the $9 million. Whitacre filed a wrongful dismissal suit last month against ADM.
The Justice Department has been conducting a separate investigation into the money that Whitacre received and allegations of off-the-books payments by ADM.
America Online Inc.'s new flat-rate pricing plan and moves to meet spiraling subscriber demand suggest it is on track to become a major media player, comparable to broadcast or cable TV networks, analysts said Tuesday.
Analysts cautioned, however, that underlying this success loomed a real threat that the online network's capacity to serve its more than 7 million subscribers could soon be overwhelmed.
They warned that the additional demand on AOL's network generated by the company's offer of unlimited usage for $19.95 per month imperilled its near-term capacity to handle demand.
If only a small fraction of AOL's millions of subscribers were to take up the company's offer of unlimited access and remain connected to the service for long periods of the day, the service would quickly grind to a halt, detractors said.
Clearly, investors are betting the company can surmount such challenges, as AOL has done repeatedly in mushrooming sevenfold from less than 1 million users three years ago.
In recent weeks, the stock's momentum has revived, doubling from a year-low of $22 to reach $44 earlier Tuesday. An afternoon sell-off caused the stock to fall back to $37.50. down $2.375.
"The market appears to have taken a very bullish view of the new pricing scheme," said Arthur Newman, an analyst with brokerage firm Gerard Klauer of the stock's recent run-up.
"But you have to balance this with the realisation that the more time users spend online, the higher the cost of adding capacity" requiring new equipment investments, he said.
AOL officials have warned repeatedly that they expect the next two quarters to be transitional ones, both operationally and financially, as the company seeks to gain revenues from advertising and commercial transactions instead of mainly subscriber fees.
But Abishek Gami, an analyst with Nesbitt Burns Securities, said he believed AOL had proven its capacity to weather the pressures of the explosively growing online medium.
In particular, Gami said AOL has measures in place to limit excessive connection times by users who now have little incentive to disconnect and free up network time for other users.
"Will this demand on its network be enough to destroy the company? I think not," said Gami. "What the company will do is build out to meet demand and stage a comeback," said the analyst.
"Anyone who is writing this company's obituary is going to be disappointed," agreed Gary Arlen, an online industry analyst at Arlen Communications Inc.
AOL said Monday it was greatly expanding its online network and planned to spend $250 million by next June to double its network capacity and improve service.
Television executives have tentatively agreed to rate shows based on their suitability for kids of different age groups, industry sources said Tuesday, disappointing advocates of a ratings system that would specify the level of sex, violence and bad language.
The new ratings system is expected to be completed by year's end and would be similar -- but not identical to -- the 28-year-old system now used by the motion-picture industry.
The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) code uses letters and numbers -- G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17 -- to suggest the age groups for which a film is appropriate.
The TV industry executives, meeting privately since March, rejected a system backed by children's advocates and educators to rate shows based on content -- sex, violence and language.
An industry source said that approach -- now used by cable network HBO -- would be unworkable for the hundreds of shows on broadcast and cable TV and would fail to deliver a uniform standard across the various broadcast and cable networks.
Individual networks or syndicators would rate their shows.
"It's just too hard to have uniformity," said the source.
The HBO system, first devised in the mid-eighties, offers content-based ratings such as "MV" for "mild violence," "SC" for "strong sexual content" and "AL" for "adult language."
Industry sources stressed that the TV ratings system has not been finalised and that details need to be worked out.
Publicly, executives said no agreement has been reached.
"It would be premature to suggest that we've reached any agreement," said Decker Anstrom, president of the National Cable Television Association.
Once completed, the ratings will be used with a "V-chip" that will be installed in new TV sets to allow parents to block shows they consider too violent or racy.
News that a content-based system had been rejected brought protest from children's advocates and others.
"It's very unfortunate. We're going to end up with a system that is not going to be very helpful to parents," said Kathryn Montgomery of the Centre for Media Education.
Montgomery, who met Tuesday with the industry group overseeing the ratings system, charged that the TV executives "never seriously considered" a content-based system and that "their minds were made up from the beginning."
Representative Edward Markey, R-Mass., the backer of the 1996 V-chip legislation, said the "'V' for violence" appears to have been "hijacked." "It's time the public joined in a search for the missing 'V' so we can restore it to the V-chip," he added.
A survey issued last month by the National Parent Teacher Association,  the Institute for Mental Health Initiatives and University of Wisconsin researchers reported that 80 percent of parents polled preferred a content-based ratings system.
A brisk start to holiday shopping should help retailers post solid sales gains for November and make this season merrier than last year for the nation's store chains.
But quirks in the calendar, with a later Thanksgiving this year, and some retailers tallying sales differently than others, could obscure overall results for November.
Industry analysts said they expect sales at stores open at least a year to rise 2.5 percent to 4.0 percent overall in November, with clothing continuing to be a strong contributor, as it was in October.
Most retailers report November sales on Thursday.
"We think the majority of companies are going to be on or above plan for the month of November, with good inventory levels," said Harry Ikenson, retail analyst at Rodman &amp; Renshaw Inc. "We think the promotional level for Thanksgiving was high, but probably no higher than last year."
With discounts and markdowns no higher and in some cases lower than last year, and inventories being managed tightly, profit margins should improve, helping to lift fourth quarter earnings, analysts said.
"On balance, good business now is going to translate into decent earnings," said Dean Ramos at Dain Bosworth Inc. Ramos said his index of sales could be one to two points higher than the 3.1 percent rise reported last year and that the trend should continue through December.
"Absent some sort of event that shakes the consumer you should see good retail sales" in December, he said.
Holiday sales are crucial to retailers who typically earn a quarter or more of the year's profits during the season, analysts said. Steady economic growth and low unemployment have helped boost sales so far, and store chains should also benefit from easy comparisons with weak results a year ago.
Consumers got off to a fast start on their holiday shopping after Thanksgiving, analysts said.
Retail consumer spending in the post-Thanksgiving weekend rose 4.3 percent from a year ago, according to TeleCheck Services, which tracks check-writing volume. Overall, same-store sales rose 2.1 percent, TeleCheck said.
Several department store operators were expcted to be among the winners when sales are reported on Thursday.
Rodman &amp; Renshaw's Ikenson said he expected J.C. Penney Co. Inc. and May Department Stores Co. to be above expectations, with Penney's same-store sales up 7.5 percent to 8 percent and May's up 6 percent to 7 percent. Federated Department Stores Inc. should be up 7 percent to 9 percent, with gains in all its segments, he said.
He also sees speciality retailer Paul Harris Stores Inc. up 15 percent to 17 percent, but Charming Shoppes Inc. slightly below expectations with a gain of 5 percent.
Dean Witter analyst Patrick McCormack said in a research report he expected sames store sales to be up 3 percent in the month for the firm's index of 44 companies.
He also saw JC Penney, May, and Federated above expectations, as well as Sears, Roebuck and Co.
Sears was forecast by analysts to post a smaller-than-expected decline of 1 percent to 2 percent, which is due to a quirk in the company's sales reporting calendar that should help boost results in December.
Sears Senior Executive Vice President John Costello said on Sunday that post-Thanskgiving sales appeared to be up across the board, from men's and children's clothing to Craftsman tools to fine jewelry.
"Optimism is up and it looks like consumers are responding to the short season by getting an earlier start," he said.
Most analyts expect big-ticket consumer electronics to continue to be weak, though one saw some signs of a pickup in sales at the end of the month.
"Sears and Wal-Mart over the last week talked about a pickup in the computer area," said Michael Niemira, analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. He forecast sales overall up 2.5 percent for November at a comparable number of stores.
A leading software industry group is backing away from its early support of the Clinton Administration's new policy to ease export rules on computer encoding technology.
In a letter to vice president Al Gore, the Business Software Alliance, which includes Microsoft Corp and International Business Machine Corp's Lotus Development, warned that rules implementing the new encryption export policy appeared to be flawed.  
"It appears that significant backtracking has occurred since the October 1 announcement," the alliance wrote.
"Therefore, we seriously doubt that the regulations will work, meet consumer demands or be accepted by the private sector unless the administration radically changes its approach immediately," the alliance added.
A spokeswoman for Gore said Greg Simon, the vice president's chief domestic policy adviser, and other administration officials working on the rules have met with the software group to discuss the criticism.  
"There is still an internal decision making process going on," spokeswoman Heidi Kukis said. Final rules are expected by January 1, she said.
The administration is attempting to craft a compromise on export sales of products containing encryption, computer programs that use mathematical formulas to scramble information and render it unreadable without a password or software "key."
Under current laws dating from the Cold War, products for export can only include very weak coding features.  
But with the growth of the Internet and online commerce, encryption is spreading as a means to ensure secure communication between businesses and to safeguard consumers' credit card numbers.
U.S. software companies argue they are losing substantial overseas sales to foreign companies not bound by the export laws.
U.S. law enforcement and intelligence officials counter that the spread of sophisticated encryption will make their jobs far more difficult.  
Under the compromise policy announced in October and enacted in an executive order last month, companies would be able to export strong encryption but only if the products also contained a feature known as "key recovery" that would permit the government to decode scrambled data.
The software alliance said in October that the new policy was a "step in the right direction." In its letter this week, however, the alliance said it was not happy with the rules being drafted to implement the policy. "Everything we have seen and heard to date reveals that the government is headed in the absolute wrong direction," it said.  
Part of the debate revolves around the definition of key recovery. The alliance said key recovery should consist of products which allow the government to decode stored communications, such as an E-mail message saved on a computer hard drive. But products should not be required to allow government decoding of real-time communications.
"There is little if any commercial demand for key recovery function in real-time communications," the alliance wrote. "Our members have seen nothing to suggest that any product developed to date can work on a mass market scale or that there is significant commercial demand for such products."
A number of companies, including Microsoft and IBM, have announced products designed to meet the new export policy. But not all of them easily allow real-time key recovery.
Although Microsoft is trying to create products to meet the export policy, "we still feel government should liberalize the policy more," John Browne, head of the company's Internet commerce group, said.
-- 202 898-8312
Some 120 Eurotunnel SA /Plc employees are working round the clock to clear wreckage from the Channel Tunnel, devastated by a fire two weeks ago which has halted passenger services on the undersea link between Britain and France .
Reporters visiting the tunnel on Tuesday viewed a nightmarish scene of flame-scarred concrete where intense heat had blown apart the surface cladding to expose steel reinforcing cables embedded in slabs.
A blaze on a truck-carrying wagon on December 18 forced Eurotunnel to close the tunnel to Eurostar high-speed passenger trains and tourist vehicle Shuttle services just before the Christmas season. Partial freight traffic has been resumed.
Eurotunnel hopes to run two thirds of normal passenger and freight traffic in the estimated three to six months necessary for repairs to be completed, Eurotunnel spokesman Francois Borel said.
"We are going to make a new tunnel," he said.
But before repairs can begin, the wreckage must be cleared.
With scorched rubble underfoot and ghostly streams of melted grey fibre glass filaments overhead, maintenance workers in four shifts of six hours are shovelling out ashes and debris, all that is left of 28 trucks caught in the fire.
The Eurotunnel official coordinating the clearance, Dominique Dorso, said three wagons remained where the fire started, in section five of the tunnel. One was being removed Tuesday evening and the other two should be taken out next week.
The fire was so intense in one 30-metre stretch that no visible traces of the trucks themselves remained in the Shuttle wagons, which were themselves reduced to blackened and twisted steel lattice frames.
Chunks exploded off the first 40-cm thick concrete layer which makes up the the Tunnel wall but the fire did not penetrate to the underlying 20-30 cm of injected concrete which lines the link. Behind that second layer is chalk.
Two weeks on, the smell of burnt plastic and metal still permeates the air and protective masks are obligatory.
Once the debris is cleared , the Anglo-French consortium which built the Tunnel, Transmanche Link (TML), can start repairs to the five or six affected kilometres of the link, putting in new cladding, cabling and conductor rails.
Eurotunnel hopes to use intersections linking the two tunnel bores to bypass the damaged section and allow trains to run between Britain and France during repairs, he said.
Tight security surrounds the entry points to the tunnel bores. There are three separate checkpoints before workers can even enter the narrow central service tunnel, which was used for the evacuation on the night of the fire, and is routinely used by maintenance crews.
Specially-built Mercedes vehicles, high and narrow, are used to transport personnel along the service tunnel. It is not a trip for claustrophobics. Once the overhead lights are out, the grey strip of tunnel extends into the darkness ahead, with only the headlights for illumination. Overhead are tonnes of rock and the Channel waters.
Copper stored in Shanghai warehouses -- the murky ownership of which has cast a pall of concern over the world market -- is being offered in small lots to European trading houses, industry sources said on Thursday.
The copper is been offered for sale at a high premium in order to set a benchmark price for its eventual sale to China's strategic stockpile, one Chinese trader said.  
Traders said that estimates of copper reserves brought into China in recent months range between 100,000 and 150,000 tonnes. A European trader in Beijing said he had been offered copper by the China National Non-ferrous Metals Import and Export Corp (CNIEC) at around $2,100 a tonne -- a level reflecting the London Metal Exchange (LME) cash price plus a premium of $130.
CNIEC has declined to comment on the market talk.
The copper was said to be owned by Chinese trading firms which had shipped it to Shanghai in the expectation that the central stockpile would buy this amount to square its position on metal previously lent to the market, before the end of 1996.  
"They are hoping that it is the right tonnage in the right place, but as far as we know, the stockpile has so far not confirmed they will buy it," a Chinese trader with a state-owned Chinese firm, said.
Traders said last week the copper probably belonged to China's state reserve, which lent around 85,000 tonnes of copper, through CNIEC, onto the LME between April and June 1995.
In March this year, CNIEC's former president Fang Dachang said China was likely to take it back in the fourth quarter.  
But when copper began to move back to China in June and July, from LME warehouses in Rotterdam, Singapore and Long Beach, California traders assumed the central reserve was taking the copper back earlier than planned.
Not so, said the Chinese trader, though he added: "Who owns it is anyone's guess."
The metal was taken from LME warehouses at about $2,400 a tonne, a Hong Kong trader said, with the price set before three month LME copper prices slid below $1,800 on news in June of $1.8 billion in copper trading losses by Japan's Sumitomo Corp.  
Three month copper was indicated at $1,942/45 a tonne in late LME trade on Wednesday.
"It (the copper) has been sitting there for a couple of months, so someone has to pick up the loss," a trader said.
"Whether the stockpile takes this tonnage from this owner, or if they buy it themselves and arrange another shipment themselves, is up to them," the Chinese trader said.
"But it depends on the price. If they (the stockpile) can get a premium lower than $100, maybe they will take it. They won't pay $150, or $120, especially on this sort of tonnage."  
A trader in Shanghai said CNIEC would "dearly love someone to take the whole lot, but that is unrealistic".
But the Chinese source said: "This copper can only be taken by the stockpile" because no other buyer could afford it.
China levies a three percent import duty and a 17 percent value-added tax on copper imports, which traders said made it prohibitively expensive.
Freight, warehousing and other costs would put the Shanghai copper in the same cost bracket as copper shipped to the region from LME warehouses in Europe or the Americas if the premiums being asked were paid, traders said.  
"The whole market is still being manipulated by somebody," a Chinese source said. "The game is not over."  
Other traders, in Asia and in Europe, have told Reuters that CNIEC had offered them copper in a series of secret meetings held in major Chinese cities since June.
About 40,000 tonnes was said by traders in China to have been shipped already to warehouses near the northern port of Yingkou, where the strategic stockpile has some warehouses. This has not been confirmed.
Another 20,000 tonnes of copper was stored in Shanghai Metal Exchange warehouses in the eastern port city, and the remainder of the metal was in other Shanghai stores, traders said.
Some of the world's most influential gold producers are upping the ante as Wednesday's deadline edges closer for Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd. to make a deal with gold giant Barrick Gold Corp.
At stake is the rich Busang gold deposit in Indonesia. New estimates released Tuesday suggest the discovery contains more than 57 million ounces of gold that can be mined at the low cost of $96 an ounce.
The Indonesian government has virtually mandated that Bre-X must carve up its find, with Barrick getting 75 percent of Bre-X's stake and Bre-X 25 percent.
And the government of President Suharto has also made it plain it would "appreciate" a stake of 10 percent in Busang.
But now, some major figures in the gold mining world are protesting that the deal ordered by Indonesia is unprecedented and unfair. They are pressuring Jakarta to allow rival bids.
"I think it's Bre-X's natural right to have a say who their partner will be," John Willson, chief executive officer of Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc., said.
Placer Dome, Canada's second biggest gold company and one of the world's largest, wants to bid on Busang, and Willson said Newmont Mining Corp. and Teck Corp. have also been at the negotiating table for months.
The three heavyweight mining companies were abruptly shut out of the process last month when Indonesia forced Bre-X into Barrick's arms.
Analysts have speculated that Barrick used its business connections with Suharto's eldest daughter, as well as connections through former U.S. President George Bush and former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, Barrick advisers, to sway the Indonesian government.
"We were clearly disappointed -- that's a nice way of putting it -- that all of a sudden the thing went away from us," Willson said. "Something has been going on that is not kosher in the West."
Willson said he thought the Indonesian government could be persuaded to consider other offers for Busang. Otherwise, the country would face international condemnation and risk losing foreign investment, he said.
"This is indeed unusual. The message to the whole market is we risk our money big time to find gold, and if we really find the jackpot, somebody's going to come along and tell us what to do with it.
"It would put a great big red flag on Indonesia."
Placer, Newmont and Teck must now await word from Jakarta on whether they will be allowed back into the bidding process.
Indonesia's consulate in Toronto declined to comment on the matter Tuesday. Newmont Mining also would not comment.
Teck's chief financial officer, John Taylor, said the company would consider bidding for Busang if Indonesia opened the door to an auction process, but would likely seek a partner in any bid.
"That's a pretty big bite," Taylor said.
Willson, however, noted Placer Dome could comfortably afford to take on Busang alone, despite a recent $600 million bid for a larger stake in Papua New Guinea's Porgera gold deposit.
He would not say what price Placer was willing to offer, but "it's clearly worth considerably more that what's being contemplated," he said after looking at the new resource calculations for Busang.
The resource calculations are in line with analysts' expectations, said mining analyst Bruno Kaiser with CIBC-Wood Gundy in Toronto, who noted that most analysts believe Busang holds a lot more gold than has already been outlined.
Kaiser said he was not concerned about the Dec. 4 deadline ticking past without news from Jakarta.
"My take on it is that the Indonesian government imposed this Dec. 4 deadline primarily as a means to facilitate bids and get the process moving," he said. "You get everyone who is interested and serious stepping up."
But analyst Catherine Gignac with Deacon Capital in Toronto expressed doubts about the Indonesian government soliciting more suitors for Bre-X. "Why should the Indonesian government provide the market with a bidding process just because we want them to?" she said.
North America's gold miners are not alone in seeking a piece of Busang. Bre-X's Indonesian partner Jusuf Merukh has claimed up to 40 percent of the deposit. And the former Australian owners of the property say they also have rights to part of the riches.
A brisk start to holiday shopping should help retailers post solid sales gains for November and make this season merrier than last year for the nation's store chains, industry analysts said Tuesday.
But quirks in the calendar, with a later Thanksgiving this year, and some retailers tallying sales differently than others, could obscure overall results for November.
Industry analysts said they expect sales at stores open at least a year to rise 2.5 percent to 4.0 percent overall in November, with clothing continuing to be a strong contributor, as it was in October.
Most retailers report November sales on Thursday, though Paul Harris Stores Inc., a speciality women's apparel chain, reported November same-store sales up 26 percent from a year ago on Tuesday.
"We think the majority of companies are going to be on or above plan for the month of November, with good inventory levels," said Harry Ikenson, retail analyst at Rodman &amp; Renshaw Inc. "We think the promotional level for Thanksgiving was high, but probably no higher than last year."
With discounts and markdowns no higher and in some cases lower than last year, and inventories being managed tightly, profit margins should improve, helping to lift fourth quarter earnings, analysts said.
"On balance, good business now is going to translate into decent earnings," said Dean Ramos at Dain Bosworth Inc. Ramos said his index of sales could be one to two points higher than the 3.1 percent rise reported last year and that the trend should continue through December.
"Absent some sort of event that shakes the consumer you should see good retail sales" in December, he said.
Holiday sales are crucial to retailers who typically earn a quarter or more of the year's profits during the season, analysts said. Steady economic growth and low unemployment have helped boost sales so far, and store chains should also benefit from easy comparisons with weak results a year ago.
Consumers got off to a fast start on their holiday shopping after Thanksgiving, analysts said.
Retail consumer spending in the post-Thanksgiving weekend rose 4.3 percent from a year ago, according to TeleCheck Services, which tracks check-writing volume. Overall, same-store sales rose 2.1 percent, TeleCheck said.
Several department store operators were expcted to be among the winners when sales are reported on Thursday.
Rodman &amp; Renshaw's Ikenson said he expected J.C. Penney Co. Inc. and May Department Stores Co. to be above expectations, with Penney's same-store sales up 7.5 percent to 8 percent and May's up 6 percent to 7 percent. Federated Department Stores Inc. should be up 7 percent to 9 percent, with gains in all its segments, he said.
Ikenson said he sees Charming Shoppes Inc. slightly below expectations with a gain of 5 percent.
Dean Witter analyst Patrick McCormack said in a research report he expected sames store sales to be up 3 percent in the month for the firm's index of 44 companies.
He also saw JC Penney, May, and Federated above expectations, as well as Sears, Roebuck and Co.
Sears was forecast by analysts to post a smaller-than-expected decline of 1 percent to 2 percent, which is due to a quirk in the company's sales reporting calendar that should help boost results in December.
Sears Senior Executive Vice President John Costello said on Sunday that post-Thanskgiving sales appeared to be up across the board, from men's and children's clothing to Craftsman tools to fine jewelry.
"Optimism is up and it looks like consumers are responding to the short season by getting an earlier start," he said.
Most analyts expect big-ticket consumer electronics to continue to be weak, though one saw some signs of a pickup in sales at the end of the month.
"Sears and Wal-Mart over the last week talked about a pickup in the computer area," said Michael Niemira, analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. He forecast sales overall up 2.5 percent for November at a comparable number of stores.
International accountancy and consultancy partnership Ernst &amp; Young said it made a profit of 75.2 million pounds ($125.4 million) in Britain as it revealed financial details of its operations for the first time on Tuesday.
The 21 percent rise in profit in the year to June 30 was made on gross fee income of 456 million pounds and represented a 17 percent rise in average profit per partner of 200,000 pounds.
Ernst &amp; Young's senior partner Nick Land also confirmed that the firm was still planning to become a limited liability partnership registered in the Channel Island of Jersey despite the fact that the government has said it intends to introduce legislation recognising partnerships of this kind in Britain.
Land also said that Ernst &amp; Young's worlwide revenue for the year to September would show a 13 percent rise to $7.8 billion.
Ernst &amp; Young is the world's largest tax accontancy practice and the second largest management comsultancy after Arthur Andersen. It was formed in 1989 from the merger of Ernst &amp; Whinney and Arthur Young.
Ernst &amp; Young's move to limited liablity reflects an industry-wide change whereby accountancy firms feel exposed by their current unlimited liablity status, which puts personal assets in jeopardy if the firm were to become insolvent.
Under an LLP, only the capital subscribed by each partner, which currently totals some 72 million pounds, and the personal assets of those partners shown to be directly responsible for any negligent act leading to a loss would be at risk.
Land said there was too much political uncertainty in Britain ahead of next year's general election to rely on British legislation regarding LLPs emerging any time soon.
The firm's move to LLP status is dependent on Jersey's legislation being finally approved and on the LLP's tax status being agreed with Britain's Inland Revenue.
Land said that Ernst &amp; Young's decision to publish its results had not been taken to gain any advantage.
"We are not doing this for any competitive advantage," Land said. "We just thought it was time that we did it."
He added that Ernst &amp; Young wanted to take a full part in the debate on corporate governance and could hardly do so unless its own financial affairs were transparent.
"Clients are also beginning to ask questions about our financial strength."
Fastest growth in the past year was shown by Ernst &amp; Young's management consultancy which increased gross fees by 40 percent to 77.4 million pounds.
Only its insolvency practice saw a decline in fees during the year, ironically hit by the recovery in the British economy.
($1=.5995 Pound)
British chemicals group Albright &amp; Wilson Plc said on Monday that a keenly-awaited drop in raw materials prices had failed to emerge.
In an interview with Reuters, Albright &amp; Wilson chief executive Robin Paul said although costs had stabilised after sharp gains last year "there has still been a small net increase, which has meant that any improvement in our performance has had to come from our own efforts, whereas we had been hoping for some reduction."  
Cost increases have affected the performance of the whole industry, and added an extra 40 million stg to Albright &amp; Wilson's bills in 1995. The Birmingham-based group is the world's biggest and lowest-cost producer of wet phosphoric acid, used in a wide range of processes from putting the tang into fizzy drinks to making soap powders. Rises in phosphorous prices, especially in China and the rest of Asia, partly eroded gains from strong demand for phosphates in the first half.  
Paul, who steered Albright &amp; Wilson back onto the stock market last year after 17 years as a subsidiary of U.S. giant Tenneco Inc, said another threat on the horizon was the continued strength of sterling, which could raise the cost of exports from the UK and reduce foreign earnings.
"Where this isn't expected to have a substantial effect on 1996 results, because most of the contracts are in place, it is causing us to look very hard at the 1997 budget because of inevitable pressures on translation and transaction," Paul said.  
He added it was difficult to quantify the impact of the pound continuing at current high levels, although he said strength against the dollar would act as a "net hedge" by lowering raw material costs.
Although phosphorous-derived products have driven profits since its foundation in 1851, Albright &amp; Wilson also produces specialty chemicals, including flame-retardants for protective clothing and furniture, and surfactants, foaming and wetting agents used in detergents and soaps.  
Paul said in some ways the company's relaunch had come at a difficult time, with its first set of interim results as a newly independent company in 1995 heralding a worldwide downturn in the chemical industry as higher costs ate into profits.
The group's share price has clawed its way back from a low of 152 pence last November to stand at 177 pence early Tuesday afternoon after touching a peak of 207 1/2 pence in September. But Paul warned that shareholders and analysts should not expect "one-year spectaculars," especially in terms of a share buyback.  
News at the start of the year that the group had sought authority for a share buyback caused some excitement, particularly given its low gearing, which stood at just 14 percent at the end of June. "The directors got permission to buy back shares, but without plans to do so," Paul said. "People read rather more into it than was justified."
Nor will cash be used for acquisitions, unless they "tidy up" shareholdings in associates or offer technological benefits. Paul said growth would be organic, with a reinvigorated research and development program producing a range of new products, including improved water treatment and flame-retardant chemicals and a breakthrough to stop paints from flaking.
"We are not looking for one-year spectaculars at Albright &amp; Wilson. We have been around for 145 years and and even Tenneco's ownership (from 1978) could be seen in retrospect as a phase in the history of the company,"said Paul. "Our aim is to build up a solid performance year-on-year-on-year."
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
America Online Inc. said Monday it was starting a major expansion of its online network and planned to spend $250 million through the end of its fiscal year in June to build capacity and improve service.
The nation's largest online service provider said it was upgrading its network to meet the surge in demand generated by its new pricing and recent marketing initiatives. As of Sunday, AOL began offering a new flat-rate pricing plan to its 7 million subscribers.
AOL said it will double its system hardware over the next six months, which would grow large enough to cover nearly two football fields.
Since September, AOL has doubled its electronic mail capacity and its capability to connect users to the Internet's popular World Wide Web.
An America Online spokesman said that despite heavy usage over the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, there were no serious problems with its online network.
The Dulles, Va.-based company said that since July 1, it has added tens of thousands of new modems to AOLnet, which it said was the world's largest dial-in network. The expansion is to accelerate through the spring with tens of thousands of new modems being installed monthly, it added.
AOL, the world's largest online service, recently sent out postcards to its members about the new pricing plan of $19.95 a month for unlimited use of the service.
The postcards also warned members that the company expected a slowdown in its service during peak hours on Sunday, as users celebrated the flat-fee by going online for hours. "There were no serious problems," the spokesman said.
Analysts said with more new users expected, AOL needs to upgrade its network, especially after its nearly 19-hour outage on Aug. 7, which happened during regular maintenance caused by a software glitch and angered many users.
Already this quarter, AOL's subscriber growth is on the rebound, and in October, the company added 275,000 new members. In the summer, AOL was hurting from a slowdown in subscriber growth.
The online service provider did not make any further mention of the recent investigation into its pricing policy by the attorneys general of about 18 states.
Last month, AOL said it had received inquiries from states' attorneys general expressing concern with how it was implementing and disclosing the new pricing plans to members. A spokesman said at the time that its plan and the implementation was "fair in every sense."
Last week, the attorney general of the state of Washington signed a letter of agreement with AOL, resolving allegations that AOL had violated Washington's Consumer Protection Act by planning to bill subscribers the new $19.95 rate for unlimited service, without their positive assent to it.
AOL agreed to notify customers of the upcoming price changes by using a "pop-up" screen which appears when members sign on. Customers must choose one pricing plan by March 31.
Software giant Microsoft Corp. MSFT.N  plans to pay dividends to stockholders for the first time through a new issue of preferred shares, according to documents filed Monday.
The hugely profitable company, which has not paid dividends in its 10 years as a public company but has hoarded a cash pile that has grown to more than $7 billion, said it planned to issue $750 million worth of the new class of stock.
"We are responding to the desire of some investors for an income-yielding stock, while still allowing them to participate to a significant degree in the growth potential of our company," Chief Financial Officer Mike Brown said in a statement.
The preferred shares will protect investors against risk, guaranteeing they will get back their principal in cash or common stock at the end of three years along with quarterly dividends that will be specified at the time of the offering.
But investors will have only a limited opportunity to enjoy the kind of stock appreciation available to owners of Microsoft common stock, which has risen nearly 80 percent this year.
The value of the preferred shares will be capped at a percentage to be established when the offering is completed. Similar convertible preferred shares have been capped at 25 percent to 30 percent growth.
In the past, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates and other board members have resisted calls for a common stock dividend, saying the fast-moving computer business required high research spending levels and the flexibility to make large acquisitions if needed.
Treasurer Greg Maffei said the planned issue of preferred shares was consistent with that philosophy, noting that the $750 million would represent less than 1 percent of the company's market capitalization.
"We dont believe the bulk of our investors want a common dividend," Maffei said. "We believe that the best use of (cash) is to reinvest in the business. On the other hand we do understand that some investors want a common dividend, and we created a security that offers them the opportunity to become investors in Microsoft."
The amount of the offering could rise to $862.5 million if underwriters Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley exercise options, Microsoft said in the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pending SEC approval the offering could be completed in the next several weeks.
China has approved three foreign banks to do local currency business, the official Shanghai Star newspaper reported on Tuesday, but bankers said deals could not start until a thorny tax rate issue was solved.
The newspaper said the three banks are Citibank, Tokyo-Mitsubishi Bank and Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corporation and that they would be granted licences to handle Chinese yuan business this month.
Up to now, foreign banks with branches in China have been restricted to doing foreign currency business only, with the Chinese banks retaining a monopoly on the huge local currency (yuan) loan and deposit market.
The Star said the banks will be allowed to handle yuan deposits, loans and other business, adding that the business would be opened to more foreign banks from early next year.
Bankers have said they expect the business licences to restrict them only to taking deposits from and making loans to foreign-funded firms for the foreseeable future.
The deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, Chen Yuan, said on Tuesday that China would grant licences for foreign banks to conduct local currency renminbi (yuan) business "very soon".
"We will very soon introduce foreign banks into the renminbi business in Shanghai," he told reporters after a Hong Kong Monetary Authority conference. "We will announce that very soon. It is a matter of days not weeks," Chen said.
He declined to say how many licences would be granted.
An official with one of the three chosen banks, said they had not yet been given formal notification that their applications to do local currency business had been accepted.
"But the PBOC has let us know we have been chosen in a more informal way," he said, asking not to be identified.
The main problem is the differing rates at which the authorities tax the profits of banks in China. Foreign banks are taxed at 15 percent, Chinese commercial banks at 33 percent and the main state banks at 55 percent.
Bankers say there is still no agreement on how profits made by foreign banks doing local Chinese currency business would be taxed.
"That issue still rests with the State Council, it is beyond the control of the Shanghai city government, or even of the PBOC," said a foreign banker.
He said the authorities wanted to unify the tax rate between the various banks, but there were huge wrangles over what rate to choose.
"Until the tax rate issue is resolved, I doubt if the foreign banks will start any local currency business," said the banker. "They will want clarification beforehand."
The Star newspaper said the three banks chosen to begin local currency business all had registered branches in the Pudong Development Zone to the east of Shanghai's city centre.
Officials had long said that only banks with Pudong branches would be considered for the licences.
Britons will shortly learn how much they will be asked to pay to help fund the expansion of British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) radio and television services in the multi-channel future.
The BBC has been lobbying the government to grant it an above-inflation increase in the annual licence fee, arguing that more money is needed if it is to remain at the forefront of broadcasting into the next millennium. The government is expected to announce its decision by early to mid-December.
The BBC, which calls itself "the world's most successful cultural institution", derives 95 percent of its funding from the annual fee payable by all television set owners.
The fee stands at 89.50 pounds ($150) and provided income of 1.8 billion pounds in the last financial year -- far outweighing the 77 million pound net benefit from the BBC's expanding commercial arm. The licence is guaranteed as a source of BBC funding for the next five years.
BBC Director-General John Birt launched his campaign for what he said would be the first real increase in the licence fee in over a decade at a conference in Edinburgh in August.
"If the BBC is to sustain the existing level of services; if it is to remain as creative and dynamic an institution in the 21st as it has been in the 20th century; if it is to innovate with high quality services in the new technologies...we shall need a real increse in the level of the licence fee," he said.
"Neither a new leap forward in efficiency, nor a vigorous drive to increase our commercial revenue will be enough."
The BBC is believed to be seeking a rise of around five pounds -- which would generate extra revenue of more than 100 million pounds. Annual inflation is currently 2.7 percent.
Birt's call has received a cool reponse from the ruling Conservatives and opposition Labour, wary of pinning a price rise on more than 20 million households in the run-up to a general election. The new rate would take effect in April while the election must be held by the following month.
Recent newspaper reports said that National Heritage Secretary Virginia Bottomley has settled for a five-year formula that would leave the licence fee unchanged in real terms.
The reports said that Bottomley would offer higher rises in the second and third years to help fund new digital services and commercial projects but that increases in the following two years would be pegged below inflation.
The BBC, which runs two television channels and five national radio stations and has an enviable reputation as a quality public service broadcaster, has stepped up its campaign.
"You want us to do things. We want to do them. Now please give us the means and we can get on with the job," Will Wyatt, chief executive of the BBC Broadcast division said in a recent speech.
"We have called for only a modest increase, but one which would enable us to achieve a disproportionate amount of good."
The BBC points out that it has cut its cost base by almost 20 percent over the past three years and increased programme investment by 300 million pounds.
The licence fee debate comes as the broadcasting industry is set to be revolutionised by the move to digital transmission.
Digital technology converts sound and pictures into binary digits -- a series of noughts and ones. It increases picture quality, multiplies the number of channels that can be broadcast and allows for the creation of interactive services.
Pay television operator BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is the leading shareholder, plans to launch a digital satellite service with some 200 channels into Britain from next year.
BSkyB, one of the corporate success stories of the 1990s, is Britain's leading pay television operator with more than five million subscribers. Its top package of premium films and live sports events costs subscribers 324 pounds per annum.
A terrestrial digital service, broadcast from land-based transmitters and offering some 36 channels, is expected to begin by mid-1998.
The BBC plans to use digital technology to offer all licence payers supplementary programming to its core BBC1 and BBC2 output plus a 24-hour news service. It plans to make them available via satellite and terrestrial distribution.
The BBC expects to retain a share of around a third of all viewing and listening in 2005, down from 45 percent as the number of channels multiplies and the market fragments.
The digital expansion creates fresh opportunities for the corporation to develop its BBC Worldwide commercial arm.
Worldwide is in negotiations with partners in Britain and the United States over the creation of a number of subscription channels, exploiting its strengths in areas such as comedy, drama and natural history.
Its partner in Britain is Flextech Plc, while it is working with Discovery Communications Inc on channels for international markets. Leading U.S. cable television operator Tele-Communications Inc is a major shareholder in both companies. It aims to launch its UK services in mid 1997.
Some media figures doubt the sustainability of the licence fee as subscription and pay-per-view services proliferate.
David Elstein, chief executive of Britain's new Channel 5 commercial television network, said recently that he believed that pay-per-view would eventually "consign the licence fee to history, where it belongs".
($1=.5953 Pound)
Britons will shortly learn how much they will be asked to pay to help fund the expansion of British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) radio and television services in the multi-channel future.
The BBC has been lobbying the government to grant it an above-inflation increase in the annual licence fee, arguing that more money is needed if it is to remain at the forefront of broadcasting into the next millennium. The government is expected to announce its decision by early to mid-December.
The BBC, which calls itself "the world's most successful cultural institution", derives 95 percent of its funding from the annual fee payable by all television set owners.
The fee stands at 89.50 pounds ($150) and provided income of 1.8 billion pounds in the last financial year -- far outweighing the 77 million pound net benefit from the BBC's expanding commercial arm. The licence is guaranteed as a source of BBC funding for the next five years.
BBC Director-General John Birt launched his campaign for what he said would be the first real increase in the licence fee in over a decade at a conference in Edinburgh in August.
"If the BBC is to sustain the existing level of services; if it is to remain as creative and dynamic an institution in the 21st as it has been in the 20th century; if it is to innovate with high quality services in the new technologies...we shall need a real increase in the level of the licence fee," he said.
"Neither a new leap forward in efficiency, nor a vigorous drive to increase our commercial revenue will be enough."
The BBC is believed to be seeking a rise of around five pounds -- which would generate extra revenue of more than 100 million pounds. Annual inflation is currently 2.7 percent.
Birt's call has received a cool reponse from the ruling Conservatives and opposition Labour, wary of pinning a price rise on more than 20 million households in the run-up to a general election. The new rate would take effect in April while the election must be held by the following month.
Recent newspaper reports said that National Heritage Secretary Virginia Bottomley has settled for a five-year formula that would leave the licence fee unchanged in real terms.
The reports said that Bottomley would offer higher rises in the second and third years to help fund new digital services and commercial projects but that increases in the following two years would be pegged below inflation.
The BBC, which runs two television channels and five national radio stations and has an enviable reputation as a quality public service broadcaster, has stepped up its campaign.
"You want us to do things. We want to do them. Now please give us the means and we can get on with the job," Will Wyatt, chief executive of the BBC Broadcast division said in a recent speech.
"We have called for only a modest increase, but one which would enable us to achieve a disproportionate amount of good."
The BBC points out that it has cut its cost base by almost 20 percent over the past three years and increased programme investment by 300 million pounds.
The licence fee debate comes as the broadcasting industry is set to be revolutionised by the move to digital transmission.
Digital technology converts sound and pictures into binary digits -- a series of noughts and ones. It increases picture quality, multiplies the number of channels that can be broadcast and allows for the creation of interactive services.
Pay television operator BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is the leading shareholder, plans to launch a digital satellite service with some 200 channels into Britain from next year.
BSkyB, one of the corporate success stories of the 1990s, is Britain's leading pay television operator with more than five million subscribers. Its top package of premium films and live sports events costs subscribers 324 pounds per annum.
A terrestrial digital service, broadcast from land-based transmitters and offering some 36 channels, is expected to begin by mid-1998.
The BBC plans to use digital technology to offer all licence payers supplementary programming to its core BBC1 and BBC2 output plus a 24-hour news service. It plans to make them available via satellite and terrestrial distribution.
The BBC expects to retain a share of around a third of all viewing and listening in 2005, down from 45 percent as the number of channels multiplies and the market fragments.
The digital expansion creates fresh opportunities for the corporation to develop its BBC Worldwide commercial arm.
Worldwide is in negotiations with partners in Britain and the United States over the creation of a number of subscription channels, exploiting its strengths in areas such as comedy, drama and natural history.
Its partner in Britain is Flextech Plc, while it is working with Discovery Communications Inc on channels for international markets. Leading U.S. cable television operator Tele-Communications Inc is a major shareholder in both companies. It aims to launch its UK services in mid 1997.
Some media figures doubt the sustainability of the licence fee as subscription and pay-per-view services proliferate.
David Elstein, chief executive of Britain's new Channel 5 commercial television network, said recently that he believed that pay-per-view would eventually "consign the licence fee to history, where it belongs". ($1=.5953 Pound)
Canadian envoys on Tuesday dismissed reports that thousands of Hong Kong people in Canada may be forced to flock home en masse ahead of Hong Kong's 1997 handover to China in order to protect their residence rights.
Canada's commissioner in Hong Kong, Garrett Lambert, and the country's ambasador to China, Howard Balloch, said they believed China would soon decide on the issue, which has been a stumbling block in Sino-British talks on the territory.
But Lambert said Hong Kong people who had emigrated from the British colony might have to live in Hong Kong as Canadians in future and lose their local voting rights after it becomes a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China on July 1, 1997.
Lambert told reporters he had been informed by China's envoy in Hong Kong, Zhou Nan, that progress was being made by Chinese and British negotiators on the problem of right of abode.
The question is one of the major unresolved issues facing the Sino-British Joint Liaison Group (JLG), which meets this Wednesday.
"This is a good file. It's one on which progress is being made. Mr Zhou said he expected that we would have a decision announced in the JLG soon -- my guess is probably in early January," Lambert said.
"It now seems fairly obvious that you do not have to be physically present in Hong Kong to protect your interests if you are already a permanent resident of Hong Kong before the transition," he said.
However, Lambert said questions remained about political and working rights of Hong Kong emigrants who return to live in the territory after 1997.
Of all Western nations, Canada has one of the largest immigration relationships with Hong Kong.
Apart from some 500,000 Hong Kong people who have emigrated to Canada in recent years, some 30,000 Canadian citizens live in Hong Kong, many of them originally Hong Kong citizens.
Press reports in Hong Kong have quoted British officials warning of a chaotic mass return of Hong Kong emigrants if China insists on them being in Hong Kong in person on the July 1 handover day in order to keep their residence rights.
Chinese officials have said in the past that this would be their bottom line, but the JLG has reached no agreement on it.
Canada has delayed a decision on granting visa-free entry to holders of a new Hong Kong passport to be issued after the handover, pending guarantees from China on the repatriation of Chinese who enter Canada illegally.
Replying to a reporter on Tuesday, Lambert denied Canada had any grounds to believe the SAR passport had been compromised from a security viewpoint.
Balloch declined to confirm or deny that significant numbers of Chinese illegal immigrants had entered Canada using Hong Kong documents that were illegally issued or obtained.
The envoys also denied local press reports that Canada had received a comprehensive list of Chinese dissidents living in exile in Hong Kong, and that it planned to grant them refuge after 1997. They said some individual dissidents had come forward but declined to comment further.
Japan faces a number of regional bank failures over the next few years but the nation's financial system should not suffer any major damage, a leading U.S. rating agency said on Tuesday.
Senior executives from Standard &amp; Poors Corp said weaker Japanese regional banks will go to the wall as liberalisation triggers a shake-out in the Japanese financial sector.
They were speaking to reporters after the agency issued ratings on a small number of top Japanese regional banks, which were mostly judged to be a reasonably safe investment.
"We will see some (Japanese) regional bank failures," Ernest Napier, an S&amp;P director, told a news conference.
But he said that as long as the process was well-managed, the failures should not cause a crisis of confidence in the financial system.
The credibility of Japan's debt-burdened finance industry has been rocked by a string of banking failures, including the forced closure last month of Hanwa Bank, a second-tier regional bank based in western Japan.
Naoko Nemoto, an associate director at S&amp;P, said it would be hard for some other second-tier regional banks to stay afloat. While some of Japan's top regional banks enjoy higher credit ratings than big commercial banks, smaller regional banks continue to be plagued by poor asset quality and structural problems, she said.
When Japanese authorities stepped in to close Hanwa, it was the first such forced halt of a bank's operations since World War Two, and only the third bank failure since then -- although several small credit unions have folded.
At the time, the authorities said such swift action was essential for the recovery of the financial system.
Nemoto said that this could become a standard method of dealing with future bank failures.
Japan's other two post-war bank failures were dealt with by creating new bodies to take over their business.
James Fiorillo, an analyst at ING Baring Securities (Japan), echoed the S&amp;P view. Second-tier regional banks are likely to be at the sharp end of industry restructuring in the next few years, he said.
"We believe that there are a number of other 'tier two' banks that appear to be equally shaky (as Hanwa)," he said.
However, the Finance Ministry is honouring a promise it made a year ago to intervene at an earlier stage to close down poorly managed financial institutions, he added.
To meet strong capital market interest in financial institutions, S&amp;P gave public information (pi) ratings to seven first tier regional banks on Tuesday. These are unsolicited credit ratings based on information available to the public rather than lengthy consultations with the issuer.
S&amp;P plans to rate more Japanese banks on a "pi" basis, including some of the nation's 20 biggest banks and second-tier regional banks, over the coming months.
Of the seven regional banks given "pi" ratings by S&amp;P, Kiyo Bank Ltd got the lowest rating of BBpi while Hachijuni Bank Ltd got the highest at Api. BBBpi ratings were given to five regional banks -- Bank of Yokohama Ltd, Hyakujushi Bank Ltd, Iyo Bank Ltd, Nanto Bank Ltd and Suruga Bank Ltd.
Ratings in the "AAA", "AA", "A" and "BBB" categories are considered investment grade, while the "BB" category is regarded as having speculative characteristics.
China's inefficient coal sector needs foreign funds and technology to modernise but must do more to create a better investment environment, industry officials and foreign businessmen said on Tuesday.
"There are opportunities for literally billions of dollars in coal investments here," said David Klingner, group executive of Australian mining group CRA Ltd.
Development of the sector's small and inefficient mines and antiquated power plants would be vital for China to meet ambitious production goals and sustain economic growth in the next century, Klingner told an energy conference in Beijing.
"The government is coming to realise that a way to ensure that the energy resources for future development are available is by getting foreign companies in with their expertise and capital capacity," Klingner said.
China relies on coal to meet about 75 percent of its energy needs and production accounted for about one-third of world output, Klingner said.
However, Beijing needed to create a sound investment environment to woo foreign cash and technology to the backward sector, said Rong Geng, director of the coal and oil department of China's State Development Bank.
"The coal industry... is characterised by long periods of construction, huge demands for funds, long repayment periods, low profits and certain risks," Rong said.
About 10 percent of funding for large and medium-scale coal projects came from overseas, Rong said, adding that his bank would try to raise more foreign capital for coal projects in China.
"We need to foster a sound investment environment for foreign investors so as to enhance their confidence," Rong told the conference.
Klingner said Beijing had made large strides in opening its doors to the once-sensitive power sector but foreign firms would require stronger legal guarantees before taking the plunge into the Chinese market.
"Foreign companies see the regulatory framework for mining investments, especially insofar as it relates to resources title, as critical to the success of any long-term commercial venture," he said.
Better risk assessment, long-term contracts and assurances of continued profits are also vital to entice foreign firms to China's coal sector, he said.
"The international financial community will want these issues settled prior to the funding of large-scale mining projects," he said.
China, with more than 80,000 small-scale mines, needed to form large-scale production to improve efficiency and cut down on waste and pollution, he said, adding that streamlining was now being balanced against the politically-charged concerns of mass unemployment.
Large-scale mining could also greatly reduce China's high rate of mining deaths and accidents, he said. About 10,000 workers are killed in China's mines every year.
China has said it would open at least 300 coal projects to foreign investors with priority to foreign investment in pit-head power plants, coal transport facilities and coal-bed methane. It has not said whether investors would be allowed to export output.
China will open its domestic A share markets to overseas investors through Sino-foreign joint venture mutual funds early next year, a Hong Kong newspaper said on Tuesday, but analysts predicted a cautious approach.
Brokers and analysts in Shanghai said the long-awaited experiment in foreign investment in China's A share markets would probably involve only a handful of funds in the first few years.
The Beijing-controlled Hong Kong newspaper Wen Wei Po quoted the executive deputy governor of the People's Bank of China, Chen Yuan, as saying China will allow some foreign joint venture firms to invest in A shares from early next year.
The newspaper quoted Chen as saying regulations governing Sino-foreign investment funds would be issued soon.
"Rumours on this have been circulating in the markets since the start of this year," said one A share trader. "It is certain that the regulations are under consideration, but a timetable has yet to be confirmed."
Officials at the central bank and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the top securities watchdog, declined to comment.
Shanghai's A share index surged 9.94 percent on Monday, partly on speculation that Beijing was considering opening the A share market. It consolidated down 1.02 percent on Tuesday on a technical correction.
Analysts said a major problem is the Chinese yuan. While convertible on the current account since December 1, it is still a long way from full convertibility, and officials have given no hint as to the timetable for making it convertible.
"Solving the convertibility issue is a major obstacle," said a broker with a Chinese brokerage.
"There are also no definite candidates for establishing the funds. In the initial stages, the impact will be more psychological than real," said the broker.
An analyst with a foreign brokerage in Shanghai said the Chinese would probably seek to establish joint ventures with U.S. firms in the initial stages to learn from the highly developed and sophisticated U.S. mutual fund industry.
Without convertibility, it is unclear how foreign money will be exchanged for yuan to invest in A shares, and how funds being retrieved by foreign investors would be shifted back into foreign currency, analysts said.
"The key issue is how much liquidity from the funds the authorities will allow to be invested in the markets," said Xu Zhiling, deputy general manager of the securities trading department of China Guotai Securities.
Traders said introduction of joint venture funds would help stabalise the highly-volatile A share markets and create a secure vehicle for long-term investment.
"Funds from developed countries are often very large, seeking long-term investment," said a broker with China Finance Trust and Investment Co. "Their entrance into the market will alleviate a trend of excessive speculation."
Britain and China are deadlocked on core issues central to a smooth handover of Hong Kong to Beijing in 1997, ranging from citizenship rights to subversion and troop deployments, officials said on Tuesday.
"With only 210 days to go under the British flag, time is running out fast to sort out these problems," a British official said on the eve of Sino-British talks starting on Wednesday.
"China has to decide whether it wants things to go smoothly next year or not."
British and Chinese chief negotiators meet on Wednesday for three days of talks under the Sino-British Joint Liaison Group (JLG) forum, haggling over handover details.
There have already been signs over the past week that handover talks have soured, blocking progress on major details of the flag change, set for midnight June 30 next year.
Chinese and British experts who met on Monday failed to agree on a formula for China to send an advance party of troops into Hong Kong before the handover, and last week a big quarrel flared over a liberal anti-subversion law proposed by Britain.
"We haven't made as much progress as I would have liked to have seen but we have agreed that this is an important subject," British representative Alan Paul said after the talks on troops.
"We must continue our efforts and we must meet more often on this subject," Paul said. A source close to the talks said China had yielded ground by abandoning a demand that the advance party bear arms, which Britain has publicly opposed, and that the argument was now over troop numbers.
JLG working-level negotiators were due to meet again on Tuesday to discuss citizenship and right of abode issues.
A British official said Britain was especially worried by the fact that China had come to no agreement on the terms whereby Hong Kong citizens with a domicile abroad can qualify for permanent residence in the territory after 1997.
Chinese officials have previously proposed that citizens must be back in Hong Kong on the day of the handover or lose their right of abode in the territory, which is to become an autonomous Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China.
British officials have warned that unless this problem is solved, there could be a chaotic mad rush by overseas Hong Kong people to the territory on the eve of the handover.
The main negotiations on Wednesday open against a backdrop of tension heightened by a liberal anti-subversion law that the colonial government will put to the legislature on Wednesday.
The legislation aims to set legal standards that would exclude China-style jailings of dissidents.
Britain has said China has blocked efforts to discuss the bill although handover documents require a law to be legislated on the offences of subversion, secession, sedition and treason.
Chinese officials said enactment of the law was not for the colonial government to carry out now, but for the SAR, after 1997, and they accused Governor Chris Patten of lying when he said China had blocked discussions on it.
The Legislative Council plans to launch a new motion of censure on Wednesday opposing its own abolition and China's appointment of a provisional legislature next July 1.
On Thursday, more political drama related to the handover is likely when a legislative inquiry panel summons senior officials to testify under oath about the sudden retirement of Hong Kong's immigration chief Laurence Leung last July.
Finance Secretary Donald Tsang and Leung's successor Regina Yip are both to testify. Leung's early retirement has fuelled a welter of questions among politicians about why he was permitted to depart so abruptly.
A Chinese court has rejected the appeal of veteran dissident Liu Nianchun against a labour camp term for writing petitions, saying freedom of speech must not endanger the security of the state.
Beijing's Chaoyang District Court rejected Liu's lawsuit on Monday on the grounds that a petition he initiated in 1995 "contained attacks against the people's government", said a copy of the verdict seen by Reuters on Tuesday.
The petition "exceeded the limits of the constitution and the law", the verdict said.
Liu had argued in his appeal that the constitution guaranteed his right to freedom of speech.
The court rejected Liu's argument, saying freedom of speech "must not endanger the security, honour and interests of the state", the verdict said.
Liu's wife, Chu Hailan, said she would appeal even though chances of victory were slim. She has 15 days in which to file an appeal.
"I will definitely appeal. This is our right," Chu said by telephone on Tuesday. She attacked the court ruling as "unfair... not objective and unjust".
Chu said that during the visit of U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher to China last month police had shunted her to a labour camp in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang where her husband is held to prevent her meeting U.S. officials.
"It's a very desolate place. Life's awfully hard there," she said. "Liu Nianchun... eats only two meals a day."
She said her husband was sharing a 14-square-metre (150 square-ft) cell with 15 other people.
Last July, police ordered Liu, 48, to serve three years of re-education through labour on top of nearly one year in detention for drafting the petition, which urged the government to re-evaluate its crackown on student demonstrators in Tiananmen Square on June 4, 1989, and to free all political prisoners.
He was also accused of accepting illegal aid from human rights organisations abroad and of trying to form a group to promote protection of workers' rights.
Re-education through labour is a form of administrative punishment that can be imposed by the authorities without recourse to prosecutors or the courts.
Western human rights activists say it is increasingly favoured by the authorities as a way of removing dissidents from circulation without the complications and publicity of a trial.
Liu took part in the Democracy Wall movement of the early 1980s and was sentenced in 1981 to a three-year jail term for "counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement", or subversion.
Prominent dissident and former student leader Wang Dan, who drafted the petition together with Liu, was sentenced to 11 years in prison last month for conspiring to subvert the government -- a sentence that triggered international condemnation.
China dismisses criticism of its human rights record as interference in its internal affairs.
The Chinese authorities have dealt crushing blows to the struggling democracy movement in recent months.
Most dissidents have already been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or in labour camps.
Three pro-democracy activists are currently standing trial on charges of counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement in Hefei, capital of the central province of Anhui.
In the southern boomtown of Shenzhen that adjoins Hong Kong, two labour activists are standing trial for conspiring to subvert the government.
China's biggest electronics investment, a $1.2 billion integrated circuit (IC) production facility in Shanghai, is looking for foreign joint venture partners, the firm's president said.
Lu Dechun, director and president of the Shanghai Hua Hong Microelectronics Co Ltd, said the firm was in discussion with a number of major IC makers to find a partner to supply IC production technical know-how in return for an equity share.
"We are discussing joint venture possibilities with a number of companies, we want to do some kind of JV," Lu said in an interview on Monday.
"But the JV partner's share won't be large. This project is too big for anyone to bear the cost," he added. He declined to name the companies involved in discussions.
China's IC production lags far behind the world standard in both quantity and quality, and the five plants now in operation can meet only 20 percent of the country's demand for ICs.
The new Shanghai IC production plan, known as Project 909, will put China closer to the cutting edge of IC development when production begins in the second quarter of 1998, Lu said.
"But we will still be behind the highest international levels," said Lu. "We will produce eight-inch wafers of 0.5 microns in thickness, but by the time production begins the world standard will probably be down to 0.3 microns."
The production factory at the core of Project 909 involves four billion yuan in investment, with 2.1 billion yuan from the central government and 1.9 billion from the Shanghai city government.
The project has the support of the highest levels of the Chinese government -- Premier Li Peng attended the opening ceremony for the project last week in the Pudong Development Zone to the east of Shanghai's city centre.
But Lu said he was treating the project very much as a commercial venture.
"From Beijing's point of view, this may be a strategic policy project, but we have to run it as a commercial proposition," he said. "IC production is too expensive, the state is not going to keep giving us money."
It will have a monthly production capacity of 20,000 wafers, each one packed with IC chips.
Lu said output would fall into three categories, each with big potential in the China market -- IC "smart" cards, ICs used in communications equipment, and micro-controllers used to control household electrical appliances.
If things go smoothly it should move into profit in 2001, three years after production starts.
"But this is a highly competitive business, I know it won't be easy to make money," Lu said.
The factory itself is being designed by a Dutch firm, Crystal Consulting Engineers B.V. based in Eindhoven, which specialises in IC plant design.
Discussions are also under way with major producers of IC production equipment around the world. Lu declined to say which companies, but said most of the equipment would probably come from the United States.
Asked if the equipment could fall within the category of technology restricted for export from the United States to China, Lu said:
"There are some pieces of equipment that would require export approval. But relations between China and the United States seem to be getting better these days."
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
A U.S. District Court judge Wednesday barred new federal regulations that allow credit unions to expand their membership beyond workers at one company, saying this would exceed the legal limits of the institutions.
The rules have raised the ire of banks who, fearing the loss of customers, have been battling in court since 1990 to keep credit unions to their traditional role of serving members of just "one" community or occupation.
The new rules, which the National Credit Union Administration adopted last month after an unfavorable court ruling, redefined "a single common bond" that is the basis of credit union membership.
On Wednesday, Judge Thomas Jackson issued an injunction blocking the new rules, saying they were merely an attempt to circumvent earlier court rulings.
Earlier court rulings limited members of a credit union to a single company or organization. The court actions struck down a 1982 NCUA decision allowing credit unions to draw members from multiple companies.
Under the latest NCUA rules, credit unions could include members of a single trade, industry or profession even if the members worked for different companies.
Jackson chastised the NCUA and said the federal credit union regulator was acting more like a trade association.
Jackson also said the agency must rescind 31 applications that it had already approved for credit union charters under the new rules.
The judge said he might refer the matter to the attorney general for further investigation of what he termed collusive behavior among the agency and credit unions.
"Why did you go about it in such a surreptitious, collusive, underhanded way?" Jackson asked lawyers for the agency at a hearing Wednesday.
Eric Goulian, a lawyer for the Justice Department, denied the agency had acted improperly and said the new rules were a response to emergency conditions.
The fireworks were the latest development in a six-year-old case before Jackson pitting the American Bankers Association against the agency and the credit union industry.
In 1990, the ABA and five North Carolina banks filed suit againt AT&amp;T Family Federal Credit Union, which had grown to encompass members from more than 150 different occupational groups.
In July, a U.S. Court of Appeals handed the banks a major victory in the case, ruling that the NCUA had exceeded its statutory authority in allowing single credit unions each to serve members of more than one employer.
Jackson issued injunctions in October implementing the ruling. The injunctions limited more than 3,500 non-profit credit unions nationwide to members who share a "single common bond."
The credit union industry has said the injunctions will result in millions of people being expelled from credit unions, with some unable to afford similiar but more expensive services from banks.
Two weeks after Jackson issued the injunctions, the credit union agency adopted new rules, now set aside, to dramatically expand the definition of a single common bond.
The new rules also allowed credit unions to have as many as 1 million members, up from 25,000 under the old rules.
After the hearing, Brenda Furlow, general counsel for the Credit Union National Association, said the industry was considering an appeal.
"Clearly, we're disappointed with the ruling," she said. "Basically, banks are trying to aggressively protect their competitive interests and the American consumer loses."
Paul Schosberg, president of the trade association America's Community Bankers, praised Jackson's ruling. "The NCUA has clearly stretched the law's common bond requirement beyond all recognition," he said.
Born as the world's first airborne crop-dusting service, Delta Air Lines Inc. may be on the verge of an alliance that would make it the industry's top gun.
The New York Times and Wall Street Journal, both quoting sources familiar with the discussions, reported that Delta and Continental Airlines have been talking about a merger for several months. The Times said a deal was not imminent.
Should Atlanta-based Delta merge with Continental, the new company would be the world's largest carrier.
The newspaper reports contained few financial details, but Standard and Poor's Corp. said it may change its ratings on Continental and Delta debt based on the reports of the talks.
A merger would fill gaps in each carrier's routes and create a powerhouse that would be certain to draw attention of regulators in Washington.
Both companies declined to comment on the reported talks.
Delta, the nation's No. 3 carrier, had a historic summer. Atlanta, where Delta has a major hub, hosted the Summer Olympics attended by tens of thousands who flew on the airline, which posted its best earnings for a quarter, $238 million, on revenues of $3.43 billion.
But Delta, which moved to Atlanta in 1941 and helped transform the sleepy Southern city into a business center after World War II, still faces stiff competition.
In addition to its traditional rivals such as United Airlines, the nation's largest carrier, and No. 2 American Airlines, it also faces newer, low-cost rivals such as ValuJet Inc..
In the talks with Houston-based Continental, Delta may be trying to get a headstart on another possible round of mergers in the industry. Carriers flush with cash from two years of solid earnings could seek mergers in a slow-growth business.
Delta itself has long been a buyer of rivals.
Started 72 years ago as Huff-Daland Dusters to combat the boll weevil, the company bought Chicago and Southern Airlines in 1952 and spread its routes into the South, Midwest, Texas and the Caribbean.
Nearly two decades later, in 1961, Delta moved into New England and Canada by acquiring Northeast Airlines. Its first trans-Atlantic flights, to London, began in 1978. It bought Western Air Lines in 1986.
By the late 1980s, international routes accounted for more than 10 percent of Delta's revenues and the company formed alliances with Swissair and Singapore Airlines.
In 1990, it launched a computer-reservation service, Worldspan, in a venture with Trans World Airlines and Northwest Airlines, to compete with Sabre, the dominant reservations system 84-percent owned by American Airlines parent AMR Corp. .
The following year Delta cherry-picked planes, airport gates, routes and other properties from troubled Eastern Airlines and Pan American World Airways as the economy weakened, concluding a troubled $1.2 billion purchase of Pan Am in 1991.
Like most of the industry, Delta posted losses in the four years through 1994.
Flextronics International Inc Chief Executive Michael Marks said he expects revenues of around $1 billion during fiscal 1998, more than double the $500 million expected in the fiscal 1997 year ending in March.
Marks was responding to the nose-dive in Flextronics stock price Wednesday morning that send the stock down 12-1/4 to 25. The sharp decline came after the company announced a restructuring plan that is likely to dampen near-term profits.
"We are going to more than double our revenues next year... to somewhere around $1 billion," Marks said.  
"There is nothing but good news here," Marks told Reuters by phone from San Jose, Calif.. He was referring to the company's business prospects going forward.
He said Flextronics' restructuring was designed to allow it to continue to gain market share and position for it for annual earnings growth of 35-40 percent through the year 2000.
"Next year we will be third in the market by revenues," Marks said, rising from its current fourth place position. Only SCI Systems Inc and Solectron Corp remain larger, he said. "We are on fire as a company," he added.  
The executive blamed the volatility of the Nasdaq market and the departure of momentum players who had invested in his company recently for the tumble in Flextronic stock price.
In particular, he said the sell-off was sparked Wednesday when sellers dumped a relatively small volume of about 80,000 shares, creating the downward spiral in the stock price.
"It's one of the reasons why everyone thinks about getting out of Nasdaq," Marks said.  
Asked if he considered the stock a buy at current levels, he declined to comment.
In a statement released earlier, Flextronics said its restructuring would include charges of $5 to $7 million spread over the December and March quarters, to "prepare for accelerated growth over the next several years."
The company also said it had told analysts in a briefing Tuesday of new contract wins with Ascend Communications Inc, Harris Corp's Communications unit and Philips Electronics NV.
With Ascend in particular, he said the company would be manufacturing the company's mainstream MAX TNT remote access network equipment. "We expect (Ascend) will be one of our top 10 customers," Marks said.
These latest wins follow a recent $350 million contract win with Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson, bolstering its already strong activity in the contract manufacturing of telecommuncation and data communciation products, he said.
Other major customers include Microsoft Corp MSFT.O and LifeScan Inc, a unit of Johnson &amp; Johnson.
Flextronics is Singapore based.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1736
Baxter International Inc said on Wednesday it expects to record unspecified charges against earnings in the first quarter of 1997 on in-process research and development acquired through its purchases of Research Medical Inc and Immuno International AG.
The amounts of the anticipated charges have not been determined, said Michael Mussallem, Baxter group vice president, in an interview with Reuters.  
The Research Medical charge "will be substantial," Mussallem said. "When you start talking about half the transaction value, that's substantial."
He said the company expects to have a better grasp on the estimated charges by the end of January.
Baxter announced early Wednesday it reached a definitive agreement to acquire Utah-based Research Medical for about $236 million, or $23.50 per share, in a stock transaction.
At the same time, Baxter said it expects to close its purchase of Immuno in two to six weeks. Baxter agreed in August to buy Immuno for $715 million over three years.  
The acquisition had been delayed last month because it was not yet approved by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and because of a postponed bond issue related to the deal.
In announcing the Research Medical acquisition, Deerfield, Ill.-based Baxter said in a statement it expects the purchase to be accretive to earnings in 1998.
In the interview, Mussallem said, "This is not going to be significantly accretive in 1998. It will be more significantly accretive beyond that."
The acquisition will dilute Baxter earnings through 1997 in decreasing amounts with each successive quarter, he said.  
"You're really talking about pennies here," he added.
Shares in Baxter, a U.S. healthcare products giant, were up 3/8 to 41-3/8 in midday New York Stock Exchange trading.
A maker of medical devices focused on heart surgery, Research Medical employs 270 people, mostly at its Salt Lake City base. No layoffs or transfers are planned, Baxter said.
Research Medical chief executive Gary Crocker will stay on with Baxter through a transition. "We'll see how long it goes beyond that, but we certainly welcome him," Mussallem said.
Under the acquisition agreement, Research Medical shareholders will get shares of Baxter worth $23.50 for each share of Research Medical. The Baxter stock will be priced as the average of the 10 trading days ending two days prior to the Research Medical shareholders meeting. No meeting date has been set, but is expected to come in the first quarter.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
Japan, worried about being isolated in global capital markets, is working to harmonise its domestic accounting standards with international methods.
Finance Ministry (MOF) officials and analysts say Japan must comply with international accounting methods amid growing criticism that it is difficult to calculate how much risk a Japanese firm holds.
"To raise funds in international capital markets, financial statements of Japanese firms must be accepted by foreign investors," said an official in MOF's securities bureau.
Naruaki Sonoda, Nikko Research Centre's senior analyst, says: "It is needed to harmonise Japanese standards with international ones as it is costly for Japanese firms which want to raise funds overseas to have to make two financial statements based on domestic and international standards."
Last month, an advisory body to the ministry started a two-year discussion into whether and how far mark-to-market accounting should be used for companies' financial products holdings, such as securities and derivatives, as well as corporate pension fund accounts.
In mark-to-market accounting, unrealised gains or losses from financial products holdings must be stated in balance sheets and included in income statements.
In Japan, financial products are fundamentally appraised according to the cost of purchase, and only realised gains or losses need to be posted when positions are closed, regardless of the size of the open position a corporation is holding.
Growing financial assets at Japanese corporations and a series of trading fiascos by Japanese firms in the past year has prompted Japanese authorities to set tougher accounting rules.
At the end of March 1995, securities holdings at Japanese corporations, excluding financial industries, totalled 50.11 trillion yen ($463 billion) based on book value, accounting for 16 percent of their total assets, NRC's Sonoda said.
This compared with 21.15 trillion yen ($195 billion) of securities holdings at the end of March 1985, which accounted for 11 percent of their total assets.
Huge losses stemming from securities and derivatives trading have raised criticism for lax Japanese corporate risk management and accounting methods.
Earlier this year, Japanese trading house Sumitomo Corp announced it had lost $1.8 billion through unauthorised trading in copper futures.
Last November, Daiwa Bank said it lost $1.1 billion in unauthorised bond trading at its now-closed New York office.
The MOF also announced last month that it would tighten rules on corporate disclosure, highlighting that corporations will have to disclose unlisted derivatives trading such as swap trading, based on market prices, beginning in April 1998.
Listed derivatives, which are already calculated at market values, cover futures and options traded at the securities exchanges. Unlisted derivatives include swap trading such as interest-rate swaps.
The new rules do not affect corporate balance sheets, but disclosing the data is a step towards introducing mark-to-market accounting for financial products holdings.
Japan is working toward using international standards, said Hirokazu Moriyama, general manager at Yamaichi Research Institute of Securities &amp; Economics.
"I expect Japan to introduce international accounting standards by the end of the fiscal 1998/1999, as the European Commission, and the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States have stated their support for the IASC process in setting international accounting standards," Moriyama said.
IASC, the International Accounting Standards Committee, has been working out principles of international accounting rules that can be applied in consistent ways in different countries.
It is expected to complete the process by March 1998.
The International Organisation of Securities Commissions, comprised of governmental securities authorities, including Japan, decided in July last year that it would take steps towards accepting IASC accountancy proposals.
Sonoda said, however, it was still unclear how far Japan would go in adopting mark-to-market methods in securities holdings and derivatives trading.
The United States basically uses the mark-to-market appraisal for securities holdings.
Sonoda says if international accounting standards follow the U.S. method, the impact would be enormous on Japanese corporations.
"Japanese companies own huge amounts of stocks in unique cross holdings, and they have massive unrealised profits on those holdings as they bought the shares a long time ago at cheap prices."
If those hidden profits are appraised in balance sheets, the boost in assets would deteriorate the return on equity (ROE) at Japanese companies.
ROE is a common financial yardstick, showing how efficiently a company is using its capital.
"This may reveal how poorly Japanese companies make use of shareholders' capital..." Sonoda said.
Currently, the ROE for Japanese companies is about 3.8 percent, compared with more than 10 percent for U.S. companies.
No final deal was in sight Wednesday for Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp., which are in the midst of forging a deal on one of the world's biggest gold deposits -- Indonesia's Busang.
As a Wednesday deadline slid by, Bre-X and Barrick said they were still trying to hammer out several issues, leaving the market to speculate about the status of negotiations.
"Several points remain outstanding," said Barrick spokesman Vince Borg. "An overall deal has not been reached."
The Indonesian government directed Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick by Dec. 4, with Barrick getting 75 percent of Bre-X's stake in the rich gold discovery and Bre-X keeping 25 percent. The companies were invited to consider giving the Indonesian government 10 percent of the rich find.
As the clocked ticked, Bre-X issued a statement saying no new deadline had been set by the Indonesian Mines Ministry. It said it expected the Ministry of Mines to clarify its stand on the outstanding issues "in due course."
Sources close to the talks said Indonesian mining officials had left Jakarta and would not be back until Dec. 9.
"I think both sides are probably worried about the so-called deadline, which has come and gone," said gold analyst John Ing with Maison Placements Canada Inc. "It's back in the lap of the Indonesians."
In Jakarta, a senior Indonesian mines official said the government of President Suharto would explore other possibilities to develop Busang if the two companies fail to clinch a deal.
"If they cannot reach an agreement, the government will take the necessary and appropriate action ... to expedite the development of Busang's resouces," Umar Said, secretary-general of the Mines Department, told a news conference in Jakarta.
"What the action will be ... I have to get back to the government. This is not my playground," he added.
Meanwhile, investors pushed up Bre-X's stock C$1.30 to close at C$20.10 ($14.84) in heavy trading in Toronto Wednesday, while Barrick rose C$1.45 to C$39.30 ($29.01).
"People think there's an agreement that will come out sooner rather than later," said gold analyst Catherine Gignac of Deacon Capital in Toronto.
But she noted that the uncertainty surrounding the negotiations was preventing Bre-X's stock from rising to meet the level of rumoured offers of about C$25 ($18.50) a share from Barrick.
"We're actually hearing that (the deal) is done and they're just dotting the i's and crossing the t's," Gignac said. "Everything has been set. We just don't know the details."
But a source close to the negotiations said he understood that the two companies did not have a deal and were trying to get a deadline extension from the Indonesian government.
The latest deadline is the second the two companies missed. They let a deadline at the end of November slip by too, sources said.
Possible stumbling blocks in the talks include price, how to pay for the deal and a series of threatened lawsuits over Bre-X's claims, analysts said.
Waiting to pounce on the deposit if the Indonesian government does open the door to outside bidding is another North American gold giant -- Placer Dome Inc., which seemed to be positioning itself in case the Barrick, Bre-X talks fail.
"I don't think today's deadline had any great significance," Placer spokesman Hugh Leggatt said in Vancouver, British Columbia. He added that the company still hoped to be allowed to form a partnership with Bre-X to develop Busang.
"We're not discouraged. It's going to be a long process," he said.
Newmont Mining Corp. and Teck Corp. also expressed an interest in Busang, which is located deep in the jungle in East Kalimantan on the island of Borneo.
Royal Bank of Canada, Canada's biggest bank, rolled up a record annual profit Wednesday and surprised shareholders with a dividend hike.
The Toronto-based bank said net income jumped to C$1.43 billion ($1.05 billion) in the year ended Oct. 31, up from C$1.26 billion ($931 million) in 1995.
Royal Bank also boosted its quarterly dividend by C3 cents (2 cents) to C37 cents (27 cents) a share -- the third increase in the past 15 months. It was the third Canadian bank to raise its dividend in the current earnings reporting season.
Royal Bank was the fourth of Canada's Big Six banks to post a third straight year of record profits.
Results from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and National Bank of Canada, which are due Thursday, were expected to push the group's earnings past the C$6 billion level ($4.4 billion), up from last year's record C$5.2 billion ($3.8 billion).
"We're announcing strong results ... and this dividend increase is evidence of our commitment to rewarding shareholders and enhancing shareholder value," Royal Bank Chairman John Cleghorn said in a statement.
Higher asset volumes, lower credit losses and strong performances from wealth management and investment banking fattened Royal Bank's bottom line.
The bank's brokerage arm, RBC Dominion Securities Ltd., turned in a record year due to strong financial markets.
Royal Bank's credit quality also continued to improve. The provision for credit losses fell C$140 million ($103 million) to C$440 million ($325 million) in 1996 and was expected to fall more in 1997.
Return on equity, a key measure of profitability, rose 1 percentage point to 17.6 percent in 1996.
Royal Bank's fourth-quarter earnings were slightly better than the average of analysts' estimates.
Earnings rose to C$1.09 (80 cents) a share in the fourth quarter from C90 cents (66 cents) in the same period in 1995. The consensus forecast from analysts was about C$1.04 (77 cents) a share.
Royal Bank's dividend increase surprised some analysts who expected the bank to wait until early next year.
The bank is in the middle of a massive share buyback that analysts said had become expensive due to the recent surge in Canadian bank stocks.
"It (the dividend hike) is rather surprising. Maybe they won't be going as far with the buyback and this is compensation," said Roy Palmer, a banking analyst with investment dealer TD Securities Inc.
Despite the buoyant results, Royal Bank's stock fell along with a sagging Toronto Stock Exchange Wednesday. The bank's shares were off C65 cents (48 cents) at C$48.25 ($35.68) in late trading.
Investors were on edge on Wednesday, anxiously awaiting the outcome of talks between Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. aimed at forging a deal on Indonesia's huge Busang gold deposit.
As a Dec. 4 deadline slid by, Bre-X and Barrick said they were still trying to work out several issues, leaving the market to speculate about the status of negotiations.
"Several points remain outstanding," Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said. "An overall deal has not been reached."
The Indonesian government directed Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick by Dec. 4, with Barrick getting 75 percent of Bre-X's stake in the rich gold discovery and Bre-X keeping 25 percent. The companies were asked to consider giving the Indonesian government 10 percent in the rich find.
As the clocked ticked, Bre-X issued a statement saying no new deadline had been set by the Indonesian Mines Ministry.
In Jakarta, a senior Indonesian mines official said the government of President Suharto would explore other possibilities to develop Busang if the two companies fail to clinch a deal.
"If they cannot reach an agreement, the government will take the necessary and appropriate action ... to expedite the development of Busang's resouces," Umar Said, secretary-general of the Mines Department, told a news conference in Jakarta.
"What the action will be ... I have to get back to the government. This is not my playground," he added.
Meanwhile, investors pushed up Bre-X's stock by C$1.40 to C$20.10 ($14.90) in heavy trading in Toronto Wednesday, while Barrick rose C$1.10 to C$38.95 ($28.85).
"People think there's an agreement that will come out sooner rather than later," said gold analyst Catherine Gignac of Deacon Capital in Toronto.
But she noted that the uncertainty surrounding the negotiations was preventing Bre-X's stock from rising to meet the level of rumoured offers of C$25 ($18.50) a share from Barrick.
"We're actually hearing that (the deal) is done and they're just dotting the i's and crossing the t's," Gignac said. "Everything has been set. We just don't know the details."
But a source close to the negotiations said he understood that the two companies did not have a deal and were trying to get a deadline extension from the Indonesian government.
The latest deadline, if passed, would be the second the two companies missed. They let a deadline at the end of November slip by too, sources said.
Possible stumbling blocks in the talks include price, how to pay for the deal and a series of threatened lawsuits over Bre-X's claims, analysts said.
Waiting to pounce on the deposit if the Indonesian government does open the door to outside bidding is another North American gold giant -- Placer Dome Inc., which seemed to be positioning itself in case the Barrick, Bre-X talks fail.
"I don't think today's deadline had any great significance," Placer spokesman Hugh Leggatt said in Vancouver, British Columbia. He added that the company still hoped to be allowed to partner with Bre-X to develop Busang.
"We're not discouraged. It's going to be a long process," he said.
Newmont Mining Corp. and Teck Corp. also expressed an interest in Busang, which is located deep in the jungle in East Kalimantan on the island of Borneo.
The Toronto stock market ended weaker in brisk trading on Wednesday, pulled down by investor profit-taking in every sector except for surging golds.
The TSE's key 300 Composite Index dropped 30.08 points to 5910.65, losing ground for the third day in a row.
Since Monday the 300 index has fallen 106 points or more than 1.7 percent.
"The market is a little shaky right now, and I imagine there's some people taking profits," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie. Market players sold stocks to reap profits after big gains earlier this year.
Trading was brisk with 111.3 million shares changing hands worth C$1.8 billion.
"Another one of those middle-cycle corrections," said ScotiaMcLeod senior vice-president Fred Ketchen. "I expect this to be short-lived."
Ketchen said he expected Toronto to continue to rise since investors have nowhere to turn. Fixed income markets generally provide lower returns than equities, especially since Canadian interest rates have fallen dramatically this year.
The important gold sector rose nearly three percent today, which prevented a further decline in the index. The other 13 sub-indices were led lower by conglomerates, media, transports and banks.
Declining issues beat out advancing ones 581 to 428 while 272 were left unchanged.
Among the active stocks were Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. Bre-X jumped C$1.30 to C$20.20 on more than five million shares.
Bre-X said today that it and Barrick have made some progress on an ownership deal over Bre-X's huge Busang gold discovery in Indonesia. The Indonesian government, which advised a joint venture between the two, has not yet extended today's deadline.
Barrick stock rose C$1.45 to C$39.30.
Northern Telecom Ltd. fell C$2.50 to C$84.30 in brisk dealings after news that delays in testing software would stall the roll-out of a personal communications network for Sprint. Officials said Nortel would not sustain a material financial impact from the delay.
Biovail Corp. fell C$2.35 to C$35.85. Partner Forest Laboratories Inc. said it would reduce inventory levels but Biovail said it would not affect inventories of its flagship hypertension drug Tiazac.
Sporadic rain showers up to the end of November have continued to water Ivory Coast's cocoa belt but mid-crop campaign prospects are not yet clear, say weather and crop analysts.
A weather front expected to bring hot dry weather southwards over the whole of Ivory Coast had backtracked to the country's northern border with light rains taking hold in dried out areas.
"It has moved up to Korhogo (10th northern parallel) from Dimbokro (8th)," said one weather analyst. Rains usually fall in a sweep 200 km to the south of the front's position, he added.
Crop analysts said the front's retreat meant no dramatic changes in cocoa pod development but they welcomed continuing rains.
"We are now seeing the first fruits for the mid-crop ," said one crop analyst. "December weather will now determine the full potential. It is too early too draw conclusions," he addded.
Weather data show variable rains for the last 10 days of November with 650 percent of normal levels falling around Bondoukou in the north-east, put down to local effects, compared to 53 percent for San Pedro and Tabou in the southwest.
An average of 30mm fell at ten weather stations monitored in the last ten days of November with heavy showers concentrated around Abidjan and Yamassoukro. In the preceeding ten days the average was 42mm, also boosted by heavy showers in Abidjan.
Overall November rains in three successive ten day periods rose from 104mm to 423mm before dropping to 295 mm in the last third of the month.
Light rains fell in Daloa and Man, after none in the first ten days of November. More southern cocoa belt areas received 53 percent of end-November average rains around San Pedro, and 62 percent around Gagnoa. Rains around Abidjan and Yamassoukro were 200 percent above average.
"November rains moved into surplus in the south towards the end of the month but we are still in deficit in the north," said a weather analyst.
Crop analysts said the latest weather picture was highly variable and mid-crop development would depend on December's pattern. Rains last year continued into December, they said.
"This year, dry weather up to early November slowed down mid-crop development but we could still be heading towards a reasonable crop," said the crop analyst.
"It is too early to draw conclusions as last year's weather picture was different," he said.  "We had twice the normal rains for December but then a strong mid-crop."
One crop analyst said on November 20 a long dry spell pushing into the year's short rainy season could slightly affect young cocoa fruits. The degree would depend on an extension rains seen since early November which would cushion the drying effect of Harmattan conditions, he said then.
Up-country buyers welcomed rains after dry weather in September and October but said drying problems had increased harvested cocoa humidity levels to up to 10 percent.
"Drying has slowed deliveries a bit, but overall quality is still good," said one.
Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
VTR Galaxy Chile SA won government permission to offer direct-to-home (DTH) television and will start selling the DIRECTV service in Chile by March 31, the head of DIRECTV's Latin American operations said on Wednesday.
The approval by the Transportation and Telecommunications Ministry gives DIRECTV, a consortium of a Hughes Electronics unit and three Latin American companies, a lead over rival DTH services in Chile, Galaxy Latin America chief executive Jose Antonio Rios said.  
"We will begin with advertising about the middle of December, telling people about the number of channels. From then we won't let up," Rios said.
Billboards, newspaper advertising and television will all be used to promote the multi-channel TV service. In addition, the campaign will rely heavily on in-store demonstrations, Rios said.
VTR, a partnership of Luksic and Southwestern Bell Corp and DIRECTV will spend the next months training retail clerks in presenting the receivers, he said. Full availability in Chile will come by March 31, he said.  
DIRECTV is sold in Latin America and the Caribbean by Galaxy Latin America, a venture of Hughes, The Cisneros Group of Venezuela, Televisao Abril of Brazil and MVS Multivision of Mexico. It offers subscribers who buy a receiver about 100 channels of video, music and extra-fee film channels. Several companies, including the Sky venture involving News Corp, are offering satellite television in Latin America, a fast-growing region lightly penetrated by cable television.  
DIRECTV has been a huge hit in the United States, hailed as the fastest selling consumer electronics item ever since its 1994 launch and credited by some industry analysts with eating into the dominant cable industry's audiences.
Rios said DIRECTV has some 16,000 vendors throughout the region selling its receivers and expects that number to nearly double to 30,000 by the end  of 1997.
The company expects soon to launch in Trinidad and Barbados and in Ecuador, Colombia, Guatemala, Costa Rico, Panama and Argentina by June 30.
Rios said DIRECTV would be available in 23 nations in Latin America and the Caribbean by the end of 1997.
The service is now available in Mexico, Brazil and Venezuela.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013
Satellite broadcaster BSkyB, the dominant force in British pay television, on Tuesday reported a 66 percent rise in full-year profit to 257.4 million pounds ($398.1 million).
Annual turnover climbed to more than one billion pounds as the number of subscribers in Britain and Ireland rose to 5.5 million for BSkyB, in which Rupert Murdoch's News Corp has a 40 percent stake.
Profit for the year to June 30, 1996 -- up more than 100 million pounds on the 155.3 million reported a year ago -- was towards the top end of analysts' forecasts. The full-year dividend of 5.5 pence was lower than expected, however.
BSkyB shares shed seven pence to 530p in early trading, having climbed to record highs in recent days.
"The continuing growth in subscribers, the increase in the number of channels and the renewal of the Premier League (soccer) contract until 2001 provide a firm base from which to pioneer the development of digital television in the UK," chief executive Sam Chisholm said in a statement.
"The agreement with Kirch Gruppe to develop the digital platform in Germany gives us a great opportunity to extend our business into continental Europe," he said.
BSkyB plans to launch a British digital television service next year.
Last month it signed a deal with the group headed by Bavarian media mogul Leo Kirch under which it will take a stake of up to 49 percent in DF1, Kirch's digital pay television operation.
BSkyB is expected to inject 200 million pounds into the alliance to cover start-up losses over the next three years. The deal gives BSkyB access to Europe's largest television market.
BSkyB said spending on programming rose by 28 percent to 420 million pounds after the purchase of golf, boxing and cricket events and the launch of new channels such as Disney.
The programming spend is set to rise further following a 670 million pound deal signed in June which will enable BSkyB to retain rights to broadcast live English Premier League soccer for the next five years.
One cloud on the horizon is a report that British cable companies may seek European Commission intervention over the fees BSkyB charges for its top channels.
The Financial Times said the cable companies fear they will not secure satisfactory conditions despite BSkyB undertakings to revise the structure of its wholesale rate card.
Freight hauler Yellow Corp. said Wednesday it could cut 1 percent to 2 percent of its workforce as part of a restructuring of its largest operating unit, Yellow Freight System.
Overland Park, Kan.-based Yellow Corp. said it has offered early retirement to 153 employees who are 55 and older and that it will announce layoffs in the first quarter.
The company also said it will take an unspecified charge to fourth quarter earnings to cover expenses resulting from early retirement, severance and other costs related to a reorganization of Yellow Freight along geographic lines.
Each geographic unit will have a group vice president who reports to Yellow Freight President Bill Zollars, while five officers at the central office will also report to Zollars, the company said.
"We are decentralizing responsibility for the business processes that touch the customer in an effort to be more responsive to their LTL needs," Zollars said of the less-than-truckload freight hauling business.
"All members of the leadership and management teams will be focused and incentive-based on four priorities," said Zollars. "Those areas are customer satisfaction, improved profitability, revenue growth and operating safely."
Employees will have until Jan. 15 to make their decisions on whether to take early retirement, Yellow said.
The number of layoffs will be determined, in part, based on the early retirement decisions, as well as the needs of the company as it reorganizes, a spokesman said. He estimated about 1 percent to 2 percent of Yellow's 24,700 employees could be affected.
Analysts said the moves announced Wednesday were part of a strategy to improve performance at Yellow and help it regain market share.
"I think they need to focus on some labour productivity," said Corina Bergschneider, analyst at George K. Baum &amp; Co. "Obviously, that needs to be done in line with their union contract and what can be allowed."
Yellow shares fell 12.5 cents to $14.50 on the Nasdaq system.
Royal Bank of Canada, the country's largest bank, rolled up a record annual profit Wednesday and surprised shareholders with a dividend hike.
The Toronto-based bank said net income jumped to C$1.43 billion ($1.05 billion) in the year ended Oct. 31, from C$1.26 billion ($931 million) in 1995.
Royal Bank also boosted its quarterly dividend by C3 cents (2 cents) to C37 cents (27 cents) a share, the third increase in the past 15 months. It was the third Canadian bank to raise its dividend recently.
Royal Bank was the fourth of Canada's Big Six banks to post a third straight year of record profits.
Results from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and National Bank of Canada, which are due on Thursday, were expected to push the group's earnings past the C$6 billion level ($4.4 billion), up from last year's record C$5.2 billion ($3.8 billion).
"We're announcing strong results ... and this dividend increase is evidence of our commitment to rewarding shareholders and enhancing shareholder value," Royal Bank Chairman John Cleghorn said in a statement.
Higher asset volumes, lower credit losses and strong performances from wealth management and investment banking fattened Royal Bank's bottom line.
The bank's brokerage arm, RBC Dominion Securities Ltd., turned in a record year due to strong financial markets.
Royal Bank's credit quality also continued to improve. The provision for credit losses fell C$140 million ($103 million) to C$440 million ($325 million) in 1996 and was expected to fall more in 1997.
Royal Bank continues to seek an acquisition in the United States, but soaring stock prices have made it very expensive.
"Indeed in some sectors of wealth management, some of the asking prices have gone right out of sight," Cleghorn told reporters during a conference call.
Royal Bank's fourth-quarter earnings were slightly better than analysts' estimates.
Earnings rose to C$1.09 (80 cents) a share in the quarter from C90 cents (66 cents) in the same period in 1995. The consensus forecast from analysts was about C$1.04 (77 cents) a share.
Royal Bank's dividend increase surprised some analysts who expected the bank to wait until early next year.
The bank is in the middle of a massive share buyback that analysts said had become expensive due to the recent surge in Canadian bank stocks.
"It (the dividend hike) is rather surprising. Maybe they won't be going as far with the buyback and this is compensation," said Roy Palmer, a banking analyst with investment dealer TD Securities Inc.
But Cleghorn said the bank will continue with its buyback of up to 10 percent of its common stock.
"We have not indicated any upside price to analysts or the press and we are continuing with our buyback programme," he told reporters.
Despite the strong results, Royal Bank's stock fell along with a sagging Toronto Stock Exchange Wednesday. The bank's shares closed down C65 cents (48 cents) to C$48.25 ($35.68).
In New York, Royal Bank's stock fell 62.5 cents to close at $35.625.
British brewer-to-leisure group Bass Plc, said on Wednesday the company planned to spend 670 million pounds ($1.1 billion) on the business next year, creating some 7,000 jobs.
The company plans a 300 million pound ($500 million) investment programme next year on its Bass Taverns, converting many pubs to branded concept bars like the trendy All Bar One or Irish pubs O'Neills and refurbishing community pubs.
This year Bass invested, net of disposals, 568 million in capital projects, which it calculates created at least 6,000 new jobs.
But in an interview chairman Sir Ian Prosser declined to comment on its proposed acquisition of brewer Carlsberg-Tetley (C-T) which is currently being studied by Britain's Board of Trade on competition grounds. Their decision is expected in the next few weeks.
C-T is a joint venture between Allied Domecq and Danish brewer Carlsberg A/S formed in 1992 by the merger of their British brewing and wholesaling businesses.
"I don't make any comment on that. Our discussions with the Office of Fair Trading are obviously confidential. We'll wait and see what the president of the Board of Trade says," he said.
Bass shares were 1p lower at 808p by 1302 GMT.
"To get the share price to move forward, the company needs to resolve the uncertainty surrounding C-T," said Charles Winston, an analyst at BZW. But he added the company's profits for the full year were at the top end of market expectations and showed the strongest cashflow since 1985.
In August Bass announced the acquisition of Allied's 50 percent stake in the venture for 200 million pounds in cash together with some 30 beer brands, among them Tetley Bitter, Skol and Ansell, six breweries and C-T's network of depots.
Bass and Carlsberg agreed at the same time to merge C-T and Bass Brewers, given regulatory approval. If approved, the merger will create Britain's largest brewer by far with at least 35 percent of the market.
Bass currently has a 23 percent market share.
Bass was knocked off its perch as Britain's leading brewer last year when Scottish and Newcastle (S&amp;N) acquired Courage from Australian brewer Fosters, giving it a 31 percent share of Britain's beer market.
Prosser dismissed fears expressed by regional brewers and competitors that a full merger would make Bass too dominant in the Midlands and Yorkshire. "I don't think we are going to have that high a concentration in any region," he said.
He also restated that the acquisition would be good for drinkers and reiterated the company's committment not to close any of C-T's breweries.
Bass anticipates continued buoyancy in UK consumer spending over the next year from which it will benefit, Prosser said.
The company's Holiday Inns profits rose by 18.9 percent to 195 million, while its Bass Taverns' chain of managed pubs increased operating profit by 22.8 percent to 221 million. The brewery division improved profits nine percent to 157 million while the Britvic soft drinks arm improved profits 8.7 percent to 50 million.
But the leisure division, which includes traditional Gala bingo halls and Corals betting shops, continued to be affected by lower admissions after the introduction of scratch cards and the national lottery. Profits were off 10.8 pct at 66 million.
Coral was hit by a one-off cost of 4.0 million pounds on the last Saturday of the financial year when all seven races at Ascot were won by the same jockey. A final dividend payout of 17.3 pence was recommended, making a total 25p for the year. ($1=.6054 Pound)
British media company Carlton Communications Plc, boosted by a 20 percent annual profit rise, said on Wednesday that it planned a drive into pay television.
Carlton, the country's largest commercial television (ITV) company, said it aimed to build on its broadcasting strengths in the multi-channel future.
"We want to build up our interests in pay television, both as a content provider and operator. These may encompass cable, satellite and digital television," chairman Michael Green said in a statement.
"Free television and pay channels should not be seen as competitors; they are complementary businesses...Carlton wants to establish a significant presence in both markets," he added.
Green was speaking as Carlton unveiled a 20 percent rise in pre-tax profit to 295 million pounds ($492 million) for the year to September 30. Carlton increased its dividend by 17.5 percent to 11.1 pence per share.
The figures were in line with analysts' forecasts but Carlton shares fell 8.5p to 495p in a weaker market.
Carlton last month agreed to pay 85 million pounds for Westcountry Television, the ITV company which broadcasts to the south-western corner of England. It also operates the ITV licences for the English Midlands and London weekday television and now broadcasts to 22 million people.
Green confirmed that Carlton was considering investing in digital terrestrial television, which is expected to be launched in Britain in 1998 and offer viewers up to 36 channels.
"Digital Terrestrial Television will expand free-to-air broadcasting in the UK and opens the door to the establishment of further pay television services. We are examining these investment opportunities very carefully," he said.
The Independent Television Commission (ITC) recently invited applications to operate the blocks of frequencies which will carry the digital channels.
Digital terrestrial will be broadcast from land-based transmitters and viewers will not need a satellite dish to receive it. They will, however, require a set-top decoder.
Carlton already has two subscription cable channels in the UK and pay television interests in France, India and Singapore.
Operating profits from Carlton's Television division grew by only five percent to 129 million pounds as advertising revenues remained flat. But the company said the outlook for advertising revenue was good.
Carlton's video division increased profit by 21 percent to 73 million pounds as demand for pre-recorded videocassettes continued to grow.
Its film processing arm boosted profits to almost 53 million pounds -- a 27 percent jump -- as the Hollywood studios continued their policy of releasing movies to large numbers of cinemas simultaneously.
The company's products division, aiming to become the world leader in tapeless editing for the television industry, increased profits to 43 million pounds from 32 million.
Sir Ian Prosser, chairman of brewer-to-leisure group Bass Plc, said the company's proposed acquisition of brewer Carlsberg-Tetley would make Britain's beer market more competitive.
"Obviously it would make the market more competitive. We would be looking to lower our cost base which would give us more money to invest in innovation and more money to invest in improving our products," said Prosser in an interview.
The acquisition is being studied by the Board of Trade on competition grounds. Their decision is expected in a few weeks.
Buildings materials group James Hardie Industries Ltd is expected to report on Friday a net profit before abnormals of between A$23 million and A$30 million for the six months ended September 30, 1996.
James Hardie reported a pre-abnormal net profit of A$31.4 million in the 1994/95 first half. In October, it said the depressed local housing market would cause a deterioration in first half profits, while the 1996/97 year would also be lower.  
BT Securities building materials analyst Chris Haynes forecasts James Hardie to report a net profit before abnormals of A$27 million in the first half.
Haynes, who has a hold recommendation for James Hardie, said the building materials supplier was likely to pay a 6.5 cents a share dividend, unchanged from a the 1994/95 first half.
A Sydney-based building material analyst forecast James Hardie to report a net profit before abnomals of A$23 million for the first half and about A$50 million for the year.  
J.B. Were &amp; Son's building materials analyst, John North, forecasts a first half pre-abnormal net profit of slightly below A$30 million.
But he added: "I would be disappointed if they came in below A$27 (million) or A$28 (million)," North told Reuters.
North forecast an annual profit of A$55 million.
BZW Australia forecast the Sydney-based group to report a net profit before abnormals of A$26.6 million for the half and about A$54 million for the 1996/97 year.  
ABN AMRO Hoare Govett building materials analyst Fabian Babich estimated James Hardie to report a pre-abnormal net profit of A$26 million for the half.
Analysts said James Hardie results are likely to turn around in the 1997/98 year, with an expected pick up in the Australian housing industry during the 1997 calendar year. The group reported a pre-abnormal net profit of A$58.4 million in 1995/96.
"The market will almost ignore these results, all the focus will be on the future and what they are doing in the U.S.," said one building materials analyst. "People are not buying Hardie for 1997 earnings its a 1998 story," the analyst said.  
ABN AMRO's Babich said the market would also welcome any comments on further business divestments, so that the company has a tighter focus on its core fibre-cement operations.
"I think the market would react positively to any comment on the possible sales of the bathroom products and pipeline business and the windows business, all of which are estimated to be operating at a loss at the moment," Babich told Reuters.
James Hardie said on Tuesday it had completed the sale of its irrigation business and its fire protection and building automation operations. The sale of these businesses are unlikely to be shown in the first half accounts, analysts said.  
Most building materials analysts have a hold recommendation on James Hardie due to the strong rise in its share price over the past 12 months, although they said the outlook for the group is positive, particularly with its expected grow in the U.S.
James Hardie shares have risen about 66 percent to a record of A$3.50 last week from around A$2.10 in November 1995.
The shares closed three cents up at A$3.43 on Wednesday.
James Hardie is 27.23 percent owned by Brierley Investments Ltd's Australian offshoot Australian Consolidated Investments Ltd.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1813
The United States' top diplomat on Asia drew flak from leaders of Hong Kong's pro-democracy camp on Wednesday as he met key officials and politicians on the colony's 1997 return to China.
The U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord had separate meetings with local political parties and with China's top official in the British colony, Zhou Nan.
Lord was also set to meet colonial Governor Chris Patten and his deputy, Anson Chan, as well as the man tipped as Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader, shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa.
Pro-democracy parties criticised Lord for planning to see only one of the three candidates in the China-controlled contest to select a post-colonial successor to Patten -- tycoon Tung.
"He has adopted the conventional wisdom that Tung will be chief executive and that the other two have no chance," said legislator Emily Lau of the pro-democracy group, Frontier.
Lau said she was not invited to meet Lord. The democracy camp has accused China of preordaining Tung as winner of the contest, which will culminate on December 11, and some critics say Lord's meeting with him is helping to pick the victor.
"What's the point in seeing the others when there's only one who will become the chief executive-designate of Hong Kong," one U.S. diplomat admitted to a reporter on Wednesday.
Lau said U.S. politicians no longer followed up remarks supporting human rights and democracy with action, and that they were now interested only in making money out of China.
"If they cared about human rights and democracy they should have cancelled Secretary of State Warren Christopher's recent visit to China, to send Beijing a strong signal," Lau said.
But Christopher went there -- just one week after China had jailed leading dissident Wang Dan, she said. The U.S. has said it hopes to see Hong Kong keep its freedoms after 1997, but has stopped short of condemning Chinese plans to crimp democracy.
Legislator Yeung Sum, vice-chairman of the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest, said his party had told Lord of its worries about the future of press freedom, the elected legislature and the undemocratic nature of the post-1997 leadership contest.
His party had told Lord that a Chinese plan to dissolve the elected Legislative Council next July 1 and install a new provisional legislature was illegal, Yeung told reporters.
"It's a step back as far as democracy is concerned," Yeung said, branding the provisional legislature move a breach of the Sino-British treaty covering the sovereignty transfer.
Lord said Washington would continue to take a keen interest in Hong Kong after the change of flag at midnight next June 30.
"I'm here essentially for two reasons. One, to underline the United States' strong interest in a smooth reversion of Hong Kong to Chinese rule, and secondly I'm here to listen, and I'm listening to a wide spectrum of views," Lord told reporters.
Lord was to hold a news conference on Thursday.
On Wednesday, he heard not only the views of the democrats but also politicians who oppose some of Britain's latest moves.
Before meeting Lord, the chairman of the Liberal Party, Allen Lee, said he would stress his opposition to the colonial government's decision last week to put forward a liberal new anti-subversion law without China's agreement.
"Mr Patten, knowing that the chief executive will be selected next week, gazetted last Friday a bill, without the agreement not only from the chief executive-designate, but also from the Chinese government," Lee said.
"I think this is totally irresponsible. He is playing politics, and he doesn't deserve to be the governor of Hong Kong," he said.
China pledged on Wednesday to curb a rush by provinces to invest in high-profile industries, but economists said defiance from regional authorities would impede attempts by the central government to restructure the economy.
The People's Daily, mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party, said many new state enterprises were doomed from the beginning due to blind investment in many provinces.
"From the day production began, (many enterprises) entered a vicious cycle of high investment, high consumption of resources, low production efficiency and poor management," the newspaper said in a front-page commentary.
Many old enterprises, unable to upgrade their technology, lose their competitive edge and become inefficient, it said.
The newspaper said blind investment was widespread, citing 22 provinces that listed car production as one of their pillar industries in their Five-Year Plan between 1996 and 2000 and the plan for 2010.
Twenty-four provinces listed electronics as one of their pillar industries through 2000, and 16 provinces said they would concentrate on machinery and chemicals, the newspaper said.
"This has been a major problem for China's economy for a long time," economist Mao Tianqi said in a telephone interview when asked about the blind investment.
Blind investment had also led to monopolies and local protectionism, with many provinces banning competitive products from neighbouring regions, the newspaper said.
It said China's economic structure was "unreasonable", with too many small enterprises, not enough large enterprises, too many low-end products and insufficient high technology items.
The central government planned to restructure the economy next year to curb concentration in high-profile industries and to boost efficiency, the newspaper said.
"Restructuring the economy...is a mission of extreme importance," it said.
The central government would try to divert investment into the manufacturing of products with big demand as well as high technology products, the newspaper said. It did not elaborate.
The government would try to break monopolies by encouraging joint ventures among provinces, the newspaper said, adding that business groups would be encouraged to shed affiliates that are not related to production, such as hospitals and kindergartens.
"There are many difficulties and contradictions in adjusting and improving the economic structure, but...the State Council's (cabinet's) determination will not waver," the newspaper said.
But economist Mao was not optimistic.
"This is not a problem that can be resolved in one year," Mao said.
Many local governments would defy or skirt decisions by the central government to limit investment in certain industries to a few regions, he said.
About one percent of China's estimated 100,000 state enterprises are hopelessly in debt and unattractive to investors looking for cheap companies to buy or to merge with.
The government has been dragging its feet on bankruptcies due to fears of mass unemployment and social unrest.
However, the number of bankruptcies in China -- unheard of for almost four decades -- was expected to more than double to 5,200 this year, or more than the total of the previous six years put together.
Britain entered new talks with China on Hong Kong's future on Wednesday, admitting it could give no consular protection to Hong Kong people holding special British passports after the Chinese flag is hoisted in 1997.
Senior diplomats met to argue over handover details against a backdrop of disputes over a subversion law drafted by Britain and Chinese troop deployments in the British colony.
The agenda for the three-day meeting of the Joint Liaison Group (JLG) was confidential and it was not clear what, if any, agreements would be produced from the latest bargaining round.
But British chief negotiator Hugh Davies said a great effort was needed to surmount a raft of problems before the capitalist territory of 6.3 million people is handed over in 209 days.
"The subjects that we all know about...are questions such as continuity of law in Hong Kong, questions to do with right of abode, questions to to do with the international network of agreements that Hong Kong already has and which will be agreed to continue beyond 1997," Davies said.
His Chinese counterpart Zhao Jihua served notice that China, infuriated by the colonial government's liberal anti-subversion law last week, would not brook any more major unilateral changes in Hong Kong's legal set-up by Britain before 1997.
"During the period of the final days, we do not wish to see new troubles or new obstacles, because the remaining issues are more than enough to deal with," Zhao said.
"But we are still very confident, so long as the two sides sincerely cooperate with each other...we will solve all issues which are related to the transfer of Hong Kong in a timely and successful manner," Zhao said.
Hong Kong is to become an autonomous region of China at midnight next June 30, ending over 150 years of British colonial rule, under a treaty in which Beijing has vowed to let it keep its freewheeling capitalist system for 50 years.
In the latest of many twists in the transition, Britain's Senior Trade Commissioner, Francis Cornish, said on Tuesday London could not give consular protection to the more than 135,000 Hong Kong people holding special British passports.
Britain in 1990 granted 50,000 heads of households in Hong Kong the right to a full British passport in a concession to widespread demands for passports for all residents following Beijing's 1989 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators.
Cornish said China regarded these people as holders of dual citizenship and would not recognise British consular protection for them on Chinese soil.
"The Chinese have made it very clear that they regard holders of British Nationality Selection Scheme passports, when in Hong Kong and when in China, as Chinese citizens," he said.
British officials have also warned there could be a stampede home in June by Hong Kong people with domiciles abroad if China insists on them being present in person on handover day in order to keep their Hong Kong right of abode.
Britain's liberal bill on subversion, designed to exclude China-style jailings of dissidents, goes to the Hong Kong legislature later on Wednesday, and its fate is unpredictable.
China condemned the move last week and said such a law was the sole prerogative of the post-handover government to enact.
Earlier this week, British experts said they had failed to reach agreement with China in the JLG on Beijing's demand to send an advance party of People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops to Hong Kong before the handover.
The quarrel appears to be over the size of the unit, diplomats say.
Hong Kong people have bitter memories of the PLA's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy students in Beijing in 1989.
China is preparing a lobbying campaign to join the World Trade Organisation (WTO) at the ministerial meeting in Singapore this month, officials said.
It will send a team led by Long Yongtu, assistant minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation and an experienced trade negotiator, to the meetings that begin next Monday, Chinese officials said.
China, which will be an observer at the meetings, has waged a lengthy battle to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and its successor body governing global trade, the WTO.
It has pushed to gain entry on the favourable terms of a developing nation but Western countries, particularly the United States, have insisted its economy was too big for such preferential treatment.
"We will be there as an observer," said a Chinese trade official of the Singapore meeting. "That is all we will be doing."
BEIJING TO PRESS CASE
But foreign diplomats said China would continue to press its case, mainly outside the official meetings in bilateral talks with member countries.
"The real work will be in the corridors around the meeting," said a diplomat who monitors international trade issues.
"China wants support from as many countries as possible to put pressure on the United States," said another diplomat.
China views gaining entry to the WTO as a symbol of its growing prestige but it also is eyeing the benefits of fixed mechanisms for settling trade disputes.
Beijing has had numerous trade spats with its major trading partners -- from annual review by the United States of its Most Favoured Nation status to copyright protection for textiles and shoes.
By joining the global trade body, China could ensure that any penalties imposed on it conformed with WTO dispute settlement procedures. Diplomats said that could be of considerable value to Beijing as mounting exports increase the prospect of trade disputes.
Western diplomats familiar with the trade issue described China's current position on WTO as "woefully inadequate".
MOVING TOWARD COMPROMISE
But diplomats said Beijing was aware that it must put more on the table and there appeared to be some movement toward a compromise.
China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said last month at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in the Philippines that China expected to conclude talks with the United States on WTO in the first half of next year.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin has also offered to aim for an average 15 percent import duty by the year 2000 compared with 23 percent now.
More important to the United States is ensuring access to the big Chinese domestic market and the removal of a whole range of practices that are seen as discriminating against foreign firms.
Washington would like to see an end to unpublished restrictions on purchases of foreign made goods, changes in agricultural import practices and more relaxed requirements on producing components in China.
China says these restrictions are needed to protect infant domestic industries that are unable to compete with established foreign companies.
The Canadian Football League began searching for a new leader on Wednesday after CFL commissioner Larry Smith resigned following a chaotic, money-losing season.
Smith, 45, said he will not seek a second term as commissioner when his five-year contract expires on April 1, 1997.
"I am proud to have had the opportunity to work with the CFL, but feel it's time that someone with new ideas and energy be given the opportunity of taking this league into the next millennium," Smith said in a statement released by the league.
His departure comes as many fans wonder if the embattled league will survive at all.
Despite an exciting Grey Cup championship game won by the Toronto Argonauts last month, the CFL is dripping red ink.
All but one of its nine clubs lost money this year, due to small crowds and cash bailouts to keep teams in Ottawa, Montreal and Vancouver afloat during the 1996 season.
The 120-year-old Ottawa Rough Riders franchise folded last month at the end of the regular season. The future is also cloudy for the Montreal Alouettes -- who won the Grey Cup last year as the Baltimore Stallions, but lured few fans this season.
The Vancouver-based British Columbia Lions are also in receivership.
Smith, a former running back with the Alouettes, was hired with much fanfare in 1992 after serving as an executive with a Canadian food company.
Observers said at the time that the struggling league desperately needed a solid businessman at the helm. But five years later, the league's survival is still in doubt.
His most ambitious plan was an ill-fated expansion into the United States which lasted only three seasons.
Canadian-style football failed to catch on in cities like Sacramento, San Antonio, Memphis, Las Vegas and Birmingham.
Baltimore was the only successful U.S.-based CFL club. It drew decent crowds and became the first American team to win the Grey Cup championship in 1995. But the Stallions were forced to move to Montreal when the National Football League returned to Baltimore this year.
Although Smith's expansion dream was sharply criticised by CFL purists, his supporters argued the league would have collapsed without the millions of dollars in expansion fees from U.S. teams.
Smith said he will devote the rest of his mandate to implement a cost-cutting plan to save the league. Under the plan, all clubs have until January to secure enough season-ticket sales to operate next year.
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, demerged from Hanson Plc in October, said on Thursday it's future was bright although British market growth was tough due to escalating taxes on cigarettes.
"In Britain it is difficult to see the market growing given the punitive taxes. We are likely to see continued strong growth, though, in the Asia Pacific area of the world," chief executive Gareth Davis said in an interview.
Imperial posted trading profits of 303 million pounds ($491.8 million) from Britain in the year ended September 28, unchanged from its 1995 level, but profits from overseas grew 55 percent to 70 million.
Overall group profits before tax for the year were up five percent at 366 million pounds. The company's shares rose 5-1/2p to 373-1/2p.
Britain's Finance Minister, Kenneth Clarke, announced an increase of 15p on a packet of 20 cigarettes in his November 26 budget.
After a similar rise in 1995, British cigarette sales fell by 2.5 percent and Davis said he expected the same sort of fall again.
He said the latest tax rise would fuel smuggling by widening further the gap between taxes in Britain and mainland Europe.
The company's profits from overseas, which now make up 19 percent of total group profits, are targeted to reach 25 percent by the end of the decade, said Davis.
"I think we are in a world market which is still in growth, albeit modest, and Imperial is a relatively late entrant to international markets and has tremendous potential to exploit its brands internationally."
In 1995, Imperial's set-up costs in emerging markets were about 9.0 million pounds before falling to around half that in 1996, said Davis, and its overseas investment is likely to remain at around that level each year until 2000.
He said the company was confident of its defence against 12 lawsuits bought in Britain by people who allege their health has been damaged by smoking its products.
"We have very strong defences and great confidence in those defences and we will defend each and any claim aganst us with the upmost vigour."
One case involving 12 plaintiffs is the first in Britain where their lawyers, who have been denied legal aid, are working on a no win, no fee basis, a common practice in the United States. ($1=.6161 Pound)
Embattled British property company Greycoat had the immediate threat of a shareholder call for its break-up removed on Thursday, but the firm still faced an unwanted merger proposal from a smaller rival.
Greycoat welcomed an overwhelming vote against the breakup resolution put forward by the UK Active Value Fund (UKAV) and chief executive Peter Thornton said he hoped the group could now get on with its normal business.
"It has cost us a lot of money and a lot of wasted effort and time. What we would like to do is get on with running a property company," Thornton said in an interview.
He was speaking after the vote by Greycoat shareholders on UKAV's call for the sale of all Greycoat's 500 million pound ($811.6 million) assets. Among Greycoat sharholders, 95 percent of those who voted, representing 55 percent of the share capital, voted against the sale.
Shares in Greycoat closed unchanged at 163.5 pence, compared with a year high of 168 pence and a low of 130 pence.
UKAV, which is advised by South African Brian Myerson's Active Value Advisers, said on Wednesday it would abstain at the reconvened extraordinary general meeting.
It argued it had already achieved one of its main aims, the sale of Greycoat's largest asset, Embankment Place, on the River Thames in central London.
It now thought a merger proposal from Moorfield Estates had "considerable merit and could better serve the interests of Greycoat shareholders".
Thornton welcomed the fact that one uncertain element surrrounding the group was over, adding Greycoat had yet to receive the answers needed about the Moorfield merger proposal.
"We still haven't received answers to our 30-odd questions," he said of the Moorfield approach, adding Greycoat was not prepared to embark on a due diligence exercise or open its books to Moorfield without more concrete details of the firm's plans.
Moorfield has suggested demerging Greycoat's largest assets, but Thornton said it had yet to convince him it had proposals that would work.
Moorfield shares were also unchanged at 30.5 pence, compared with a year high of 34 pence and a low of 24 pence.
Thornton said relations with potential purchasers had been established but there were fairly few buyers in the world able to pay more than 200 million pounds ($324.6 million).
But he said he could not quantify how much losing the opportunity of an "off market" sale might shave off the sale price. ($1=.6161 Pound)
Profits at Canada's six big banks topped C$6 billion ($4.4 billion) in 1996, smashing last year's C$5.2 billion ($3.8 billion) record as Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and National Bank of Canada wrapped up the earnings season on Thursday.
The six banks each reported a double-digit jump in net income for a combined profit of C$6.26 billion ($4.6 billion) in fiscal 1996 ended Oct. 31.
But a third straight year of record profits came amid growing public anger over perceived high service charges and credit card rates, and tight lending policies.
Bank officials defended the group's performance, saying that millions of Canadians owned bank shares through mutual funds and pension plans.
Shareholders of four of the six banks were rewarded with healthy dividend hikes this year.
"Our activities mean jobs, investment, tax revenue, dividend payments and foreign income for Canada's economy," CIBC chairman Al Flood said after the bank reported a 35 percent jump in net income on Thursday.
CIBC, Canada's second-largest bank, said net income climbed to C$1.36 billion ($1 billion) in fiscal 1996 from C$1.01 billion ($743 million) in 1995.
CIBC also boosted its quarterly dividend by C5 cents (3.6 cents) to C50 cents (37 cents), the second increase in 1996.
Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Royal Bank of Canada previously raised their payouts as well.
Royal Bank, Canada's largest bank, reported the highest corporate profit in Canadian history on Wednesday, with 1996 net income rising 13 percent to C$1.43 billion ($1.05 billion).
Bank of Nova Scotia and Bank of Montreal cracked the billion-dollar barrier this year, joining CIBC and Royal Bank, which crossed the threshold in 1995 and 1994 respectively.
National Bank, the smallest of the big six, posted a 30 percent jump in net income to C$318 million ($234 million) this year.
The banks attributed their performances to lower credit losses and healthy commercial and personal banking. Investment banking, brokerage and mutual fund businesses also enjoyed a banner year as financial markets soared in 1996.
Earnings at CIBC's Wood Gundy Inc. investment arm skyrocketed 122 percent to C$528 million ($389 million) in 1996.
The group's earnings and dividend hikes were in line or slightly better than analysts' forecasts.
"It was good news and a fairly good outlook for 1997 in terms of earnings and dividends," said Hugh Brown, a banking analyst with investment dealer Nesbitt Burns Inc.
Brown said he now had a more positive outlook for bank earnings in 1997, saying Big Six profits may grow between 9 and 10 percent next year, up from previous growth forecasts of about 7 percent.
Bank stocks, which have led the Toronto Stock Exchange to new heights since September, fell on Thursday in tandem with the rest of the market. CIBC led the decline, dropping C$2.50 ($1.84) to close at C$57 ($42) in brisk trading.
The Toronto stock market ended weaker in brisk trading on Thursday, hit by a sell off in Canadian bonds and heavily weighted bank stocks.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index fell 68.54 points to close at 5842.11, down almost 1.2 percent. Trading totalled 108.3 million shares worth C$1.9 billion (US$1.4 billion.)
"It was a bond-led downdraft," one trader said of today's market action.
Canadian bonds recorded their biggest one-day drop in more than two years. Investors sold off bonds with Canada/U.S. spreads at near record lows, while a flood of new corporate supply also depressed bonds today, traders said.
Weakness in Canada's currency also helped spark the bond sell-off. The 30-year benchmark bond fell C$3.17 to C$110.85 to yield 7.086 percent.
"This is a made-in-Canada meltdown," RBC Dominion Securities analyst Dunnery Best said in a stock report.
Investors are now likely to buy more natural resource stocks after selling holdings in the financial services, one trader said. "This signals a rotation out of the interest sensitives to some more cyclical names," he said.
The shift already started, with stronger golds helping restrain Toronto's fall.
Of Toronto's 14 sub-indices, banks fell the most at 3.65 percent, followed by media, utilities and pipelines. Financial services and banks are the most important group on the index.
Golds, real estate, and retail rose.
Falling issues powered ahead of advancing ones 600 to 407, while 284 traded flat.
Among hot stocks, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce fell C$2.50 to C$57.00 on 1.7 million shares. Canada's second largest bank reported net profits rose to almost C$1.4 billion for 1996 from C$1.0 billion last year.
The Bank of Montreal, Canada's third largest bank, fell C$2.00 to C$40.40 on 1.8 million shares.
Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. were heavily traded.
Bre-X, which has been advised to do a deal with Barrick over the ownership of its huge Busang gold discovery by the Indonesian government, said it is seeking clarification on what kind of arrangement it should negotiate.
Bre-X shares ended flat at C$20.00 while Barrick rose C$0.95 to C$40.25.
Shipments of cocoa from Ivory Coast's two main ports are estimated to have risen to around 120,000 tonnes by end-November but official figures would not be ready until later this month, shippers and exporters said.
"About 120-130,000 tonnes sounds right," said one. Others agreed and said Abidjan and San Pedro port stocks had risen over the past week.
Official statistics for October and November are not yet available but about 100,000 tonnes had been exported by the same date in 1995/96. Shipments then had been delayed in a shipping freight rate dispute, making year-on comparisons difficult.
Under 10,000 tonnes were exported in October 1996 and volumes for this year are expected to be small as the marketing season opened over two weeks later than usual on October 24.
Exporters said arrivals in 1996/97 had reached 285,000 tonnes by end-November. Some put the figure at closer to 300,000.
"That would leave stocks of around 150,000 tonnes, which sounds a bit high," said one. But large shipments in early December would have already cut into that volume, he added.
Shippers looking ahead expected arrivals to slacken from mid-December to end-January before a steady flow until the end of March.
"There's also plenty of coffee to deal with this year. Cocoa should take off again in February and March," said one exporter. "There's not much demand and plenty of stocks in Europe."
Cocoa crop analysts said an extension of light rains well into December would greatly improve mid-crop prospects. Drying could slow arrivals but only marginally. Shipments would rise again from February.
"The trees are flushing now and large pods have been taken off. That gives trees more reserves for flowering," said one.
Peak 1996/97 harvesting is expected in late December and early January, boosting early February arrivals for shipments to meet benchmark March contracts.
Harvested cocoa usually takes about 21-27 days to reach ports for shipment, after fermenting, drying, sorting, bagging and transport.
"The year will certainly be drawn out until March," he said.
Mid-crop volumes from March onwards still unpredictable but will be favoured by continuing light rains.
Some shipping freight rate elements were still under discussion this week but those set on October 24 in the 1996/87 Caistab marketing agency price list were largely accepted. No delays to shipments were expected, said exporters.
Some exporters said they had negotiated cheaper rates for some destinations than last year, especially for U.S.-bound cargo, as premiums on space had dropped with arrivals volumes down.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90 REUTER MPB
In May 1945, seven-year-old Madlenka Korbelova sat glued to a radio in London, listening with her exiled Czech diplomat father to news of the U.S. army's liberation of the western part of her native land.
They cheered when General George Patton's army forced Nazi soldiers out of the brewery town of Pilsen.
They cursed when Patton was forced to hold back his troops and let the Red Army take Prague according to the deal struck with the Soviet Union at Yalta months before.
"I remember the broadcasts as the Nazis were pushed back across Czechoslovakia, and I remember my parents cheering and wishing they had gone further," Madlenka, now known as Madeleine Albright, told hundreds of American and Czech veterans in Pilsen a half century later.
Weaned in London bomb shelters and reared on the Cold War, Albright has been nominated U.S. secretary of state -- the first woman to fill the post.
Albright, who returned to Prague after the Nazi occupation only to leave again after a Communist coup, was chosen by President Bill Clinton on Thursday to be the highest-ranking woman ever in the U.S. government.
Friends and diplomats who know her say Albright's life has consistently shown the influences of her father and her post-war childhood.
Her father, Josef Korbel, a close aide to Czechoslovak Foreign Minister Jan Masaryk in the World War Two government-in-exile in London, served as post-war ambassador to Belgrade and later a delegate to the United Nations.
During that period, family photos show his young daughter Marie -- Madlenka in the Czech dimunitive -- dressed in frilly traditional Czech costume to greet visiting dignitaries.
After the post-war government was deposed by communists in 1948, Korbel sent a cable from Belgrade saying he was leaving with his family on vacation.
Korbel received asylum with his family of five in America, and settled in Colorado. Madlenka started a new life at age 11.
Her father became a professor of European history and politics and eventually a dean at the University of Denver, and earned worldwide respect as an expert on 20th century Central and Eastern Europe. He died in 1977, aged 69.
Albright attended a Denver high school and then Wellesley College in Massachussetts. She earned a doctorate in political studies at Columbia University.
Albright, who married and was later divorced from newspaper heir Joseph Albright, made the Communist takeover of her homeland a frequent focus of lectures and papers.
She became a tough-talking diplomat and liked to speak of the effects of Europe's appeasement of Hitler in the 1938 Munich agreement which led to Germany's occupation of Czechoslovakia.
After the collapse of communism in Prague in 1989, playwright-turned-president Vaclav Havel asked her to advise his new democratic government.
On her first official visit to Prague as U.S. ambassador to the U.N. in 1994, she walked into the palacial Foreign Ministry and said: "I came here in 1945 when I was eight years old. This is an emotional and sentimental moment for me."
She has acted as Bill and Hillary Clinton's tour guide in her home town -- once joining Havel to hear the U.S. president play the saxophone in a jazz concert in a Prague club during a 1995 state visit.
Prague sees her as a strong advocate of Czech membership in NATO and the alliance's expansion to former Soviet satellites.
Havel, speaking recently on the prospects of Albright becoming Secretary of State, said: "She is, thanks to her origins, more sensitive to the issues which concern us."
Russia is trying to shift financing of its tarnished gold sector to commercial banks while keeping control of exports, putting it on a collision course with the banks who say sales abroad are what interest them.
Moscow bullion officials view recent Central Bank decisions outlining new procedures for working with gold as a cautious, experimental step toward opening one of the country's most closed industries, the banks say.
"Administrative measures in Russia always mean something," said Dmitry Smirnov, head of precious metals operations at Vneshtorgbank, commenting on whether recent changes detailing accounting procedures for working with gold were Soviet-style bureaucratic paper-shuffling or more significant.
But he said: "Honestly, I wouldn't expect a sharp rise in output any time soon."
Russian bullion officials say they want to open up the domestic market, since the federal budget can no longer finance gold output or keep the state's strategic reserves well-stocked.
Canadian industry sources say Russia has the world's third-largest untapped gold reserves but is only the world's fifth-largest producer, a fact that reflects the difficulty it is having in channeling funds to mines.
Output in 1995 fell to about 130 tonnes and will slip in 1996 and 1997. About 130 banks have the right to trade in gold domestically but only five to eight can export gold abroad.
Banks financed only five tonnes of output last year.
Western bullion bankers say bank-financed output makes Russia a potential loose cannon on world markets, since it could quickly send output soaring.
Gold, which struck three-year lows earlier this week but has picked up slightly since, hovered around $368 an ounce on Thursday on the London Metal Exchange.
Domestic banks, some of which bought government gold-backed certificates in 1991 which they cashed in for metal, may already have significant stockpiles of gold which they are unable to export due to strict quota and licensing rules.
Boris Yeltsin's press service said on Thursday the president had decreed that Russia would not issue certificates backed by about 30 tonnes of gold as planned last year.
"I know that there are a lot of banks with a lot of gold that they are just waiting to sell abroad," said Dmitry Parmeshin, head of Inkombank's precious metals sales section.
"We all want to take this stuff out if the (domestic) market becomes liberalised enough."
Bankers declined to put a figure on the number of tonnes of gold held in Russian commercial banks, but one said the figure could be at least in the dozens.
The Central Bank in October introduced new accounting procedures for banks seeking to work on the domestic gold market. But the institution still largely controls exports through quotas and licences.
Interfax news agency quoted Central Bank precious metals director Sergei Kyshtymov as saying the rules would soon be simplified further.
"This can be viewed as the first step toward a more open gold market in Russia," said Sergei Brazhenko, deputy head of precious metals department at Rossiisky Kredit, one of the few banks with a licence to export gold abroad.
"The task is to hook up our output with world market demand, given that our domestic consumption is low."
Bullion bankers said domestic consumers bought 15 tonnes of gold last year, mostly as jewellery -- but they said trade restrictions hid the fact that consumer demand was higher.
"Once things become truly liberalised, the domestic market could really explode," Parmeshin said.
At least 23 people were murdered in attacks in central and northern Colombia, including an entire family hacked to death with machetes, police said on Thursday.
Unidentified axe and machete-wielding assailants killed three children, their mother and grandparents early on Thursday in San Miguel de Sema, in central Boyaca province, police chief Col. Humberto Prieto said.
"We're investigating to see if these killings are related to the death of two other relatives several years ago. Early indications suggest they were murdered for personal reasons -- a revenge attack," Prieto said.
Boyoca is known as a stronghold of right-wing paramilitary groups but Prieto said San Miguel was not affected by right-wing or leftist political violence.
In northern Sucre province, the bullet-ridden bodies of 17 peasants were found scattered in four isolated areas near the town of Tolu Viejo on Thursday morning, police said.
"We're still looking at all the facts. The province has been hard hit by subversion," said Benjamin Irragori, regional head of the state security service DAS.
He said two fronts of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) were active in the area.
Sucre has seen a recent rash of attacks by right-wing paramilitary death squads. One television report, which quoted a police source as saying the leading suspects in the massacre were rightists, showed some of the dead with their hands tied behind their backs.
Almost 40 people died in a wave of killings, attributed to paramilitary groups, across northern Colombia two weeks ago. Last month, the country's paramilitary forces held a summit in which they pledged to step up their war against leftist guerrillas and rebel sympathisers.
In a separate attack in the city of Cucuta, in northeast Norte de Santander province, a Roman Catholic priest was gunned down by two unidentified killers on Wednesday evening, police said.
He was the third priest killed in two months -- a sign, some clergymen say, that they are increasingly caught in the crossfire of guerrilla and paramilitary violence, which has surged in recent months.
"The basic problem is not the lack of respect for priests but the total disregard for the value of human life," said Monsignor Juan Francisco Sarasti, vice president of Colombia's Episcopal Conference.
Colombia's largest guerrilla army said on Wednesday it would not free 60 captive government troops unless a huge swathe of southern jungle was demilitarized.
President Ernesto Samper said on Monday he would honour his pledge to clear 5,400 square miles (14,000 sq km) of Caqueta province but rejected demands by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) to clear three military bases in the zone.
He urged the rebels to make a goodwill gesture and release their prisoners before Christmas under terms he set last week.
The FARC decision, relayed in a communique from Mexico City, is a new hitch in the process to secure the release of the soldiers, who were captured three months ago when guerrillas overran a base in neighbouring Putumayo province.
"The FARC southern bloc maintains unchanged its original proposal (for the demilitarized zone) with the aim of offering adequate conditions to protect the lives of the 60 compatriots," the communique said.
The FARC's Aug. 30 attack on the Putumayo base, in which 27 soldiers died in addition to those taken prisoner, signalled the start of one of the bloodiest guerrilla offensives in decades.
Army commanders, already humiliated by the initial military defeat, have been loath to allow the FARC to score political points by dictating its own terms for the troop handover, military analysts said.
Samper pressured top brass into accepting a deal to clear a 5,400-square-mile (14,000 sq km) area of Caqueta for 10 days starting on Friday to make way for the troop handover, but was unlikely to be able to wring further concessions out of them, the analysts said.
The president and the military said they would not pull troops out of barracks in Montanitas, Cartagena del Chaira and Remolinos del Caguan for fear of losing grip on rampant drug trafficking operations in the region.
The FARC said the towns lie on strategic entry routes into and out of the proposed demilitarized zone.
Florida is set to challenge the tobacco industry on Friday using a tough anti-racketeering law that could mean bigger damages against cigarette makers if the state prevails.
The new claim under the state's Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organisations Act, tacked onto Florida's existing lawsuit that seeks at least $1 billion for treating smokers' illnesses, could mean more losses for the tobacco makers, tobacco-litigation expert Christopher Mueller of the University of Colorado School of Law said.
"Florida has a good law (for winning damage claims) but it only goes back to 1994. Using RICO may give the state a deeper reach," Mueller said.
The state's RICO law, similar to a federal statute and laws on the books in other states, would allow Florida officials to seek damages from before 1994, when a state law was passed that opened the way for Florida to try to recoup money spent on treating poor smokers.
Florida is one of 16 states and several big cities, including New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles, that have sued tobacco companies to recoup costs of health care for poor smokers.
Texas and now Florida are among a handful of states that are also using RICO laws to bolster their claims against Philip Morris Cos. Inc., the world's biggest cigarette maker, and other tobacco companies. Florida filed the added claims under RICO laws on Nov 4.
Mueller said use of RICO could add to the industry's potential financial losses by allowing Florida to make claims to recoup costs of treating smokers from before 1994.
Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth is set to appear on Friday in county court in West Palm Beach, a spokesman said. He and attorneys for tobacco companies will argue over the industry's request that the RICO claim be dismissed.
It was unclear when a ruling would be made, a court official said.
Presiding Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Harold Cohen recently dismissed 15 counts of the state's 18-count lawsuit that claims the industry was liable for state-paid hospital costs from lung cancer and other smoking-related diseases. The full case is expected to come to trial next year.
A Jacksonville, Fla., jury last summer handed the tobacco industry its biggest loss in a court case yet when it awarded $750,000 to a lung cancer sufferer who had smoked for half a century. The defendant was the Brown &amp; Williamson unit of Britain's B.A.T Industries Plc.
In Washington, anti-smoking groups said divesting tobacco investments was being actively considered by a growing number of institutional investors concerned by both the ethics and the financial outlook for the industry.
The president of Ford Motor Co.'s automotive operations denied Thursday that the company is mulling plant closures in North America, but added that Ford is pressing employees to chop an additional $2.5 billion from its 1997 spending plans.
Jacques Nasser, president of Ford Automotive Operations, told reporters the nation's second-largest automaker is always studying alternatives for its manufacturing facilities.
"But we have no plans and we've made no decisions on plant closings," he said.
The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday that Ford was considering closing its Lorain, Ohio, car plant and consolidating its Explorer production into a single plant, at Louisville, Ky.
Nasser said Ford has no plans to reduce capacity for its Explorer sport utility vehicle. He noted that the Explorer had strong sales over the last two to three months despite increased competition.
Asked about the newspaper report, Nasser said: "I view that whole story as surprising and lacking substance."
An industry source, however, said Ford has considered closing the Lorain plant to boost profits in its core North American automotive business.
Ford might build a new, smaller sport utility vehicle previously earmarked for Lorain at a St. Louis plant that also builds Explorers, the source said.
Nasser spoke to reporters at a ceremony at Ford's Wayne, Mich., truck plant where Ford announced it has become the first major automaker to achieve the industry's top quality certification on a global basis.
Nasser, who has a reputation as an aggressive cost-cutter, has wasted no time shaking things up at the automaker's core vehicle unit since he was promoted to his current post Oct. 10.
He said Thursday that units throughout Ford have "internal stretch" targets for 1997 that combined amount to $2.5 billion. He said the targets are cost-cutting and other initiatives that would push savings beyond the regular goals for 1997.
"These are internal targets -- they're stretch targets. They're meant to provide improved customer value and shareholder value. They're what we're about," he said.
Nasser, who previously headed Ford's product development operations, said in February that it plans to cut $11 billion out of its new product spending between 1996 and 2000.
Wide-spread cost-cutting efforts are also in full swing in Europe, Nasser said Thursday. Ford's European operations, which lost $472 million in the third quarter, are looking in all areas for excess costs, but Nasser said he is not aware of any hiring freezes.
"Europe is a very sophisticated market, " he said. "We're in the midst of some very heavy launches there and extremely tough market conditions."
Monsanto Co's board of directors, at its regularly scheduled meeting on Friday, is expected to decide the fate of the chemical business that the company has said it wants to shed, analysts said.
A Monsanto spokeswoman on Thursday confirmed the Monsanto board is meeting on Friday, but she declined to comment on what it might do.
"I can confirm that the board is meeting tomorrow," she said. "I cannot ever presume board discussions, actions or vote, and we won't comment on that sort of speculation."  
In October, Monsanto said it was considering several options, including possibly spinning off its non-agricultural chemical business.
The remainder of Monsanto would be a life sciences company with core businesses of agricultural chemicals such as its flagship Roundup herbicide, biotech operations and the G.D. Searle pharmaceutical unit.
Another possible option for Monsanto would be to sell or merge the chemical business with other firms.  
"Probably a spinoff is likely," said PaineWebber analyst Paul Raman. "There is a significant tax liability of selling it (the chemical business). The capital gains tax on it could be about $500 million plus or minus."
Among the possible suitors mentioned for Monsanto's chemical business was Hercules Inc, analysts said. They added that Monsanto could be interested in the Tastemaker food and beverage flavors business held by Hercules and its joint venture partner, Mallinckrodt Inc.  
Hercules and Mallinckrodt have previously said they were seeking a buyer for Tastemaker. But a Mallinckrodt spokeswoman said no offers had been received for Tastemaker and no agreements had been signed.
The Monsanto spokeswoman declined to comment. Hercules was not available for comment.
Should Monsanto opt to swap its chemical business for assets of another company it would reduce its tax liability, analysts said.  
Whatever action Monsanto takes, analysts said they expect the board of directors to decide the course of action at the meeting on Friday.
"This is the last board meeting of the year. It is a planned meeting," Merrill Lynch analyst Doug Groh said.
Speculation that Monsanto was near a long-anticipated final decision on its chemical businesses helped boost the stock, which ended the day up 2-1/4 at 41-3/4.
Analysts have previously said that shedding the chemical operation, which are profitable, would enable Monsanto's life sciences business to trade at a higher multiple.
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
The Internet could provide a huge boost to the U.S. economy if the federal government pursues "free market" policies in cyberspace, a group of President Clinton's top advisers says in a draft report obtained by Reuters.
The group, an interagency task force headed by senior presidential adviser Ira Magaziner, recommended that the administration work globally to protect the Internet from new taxes, censorship and other onerous forms of regulation.
After seven months of deliberations, the task force is preparing to issue for public comment a report of principles and policies the Unites States should pursue, Magaziner said in an interview.
"One of the things we're trying to do with this paper is as much say what government should not do as say what they should do," Magaziner said. "A lot of what industry is concerned about is that governments are already beginning to take actions around the world that would inhibit commerce."
The growth of Internet commerce could help boost U.S. exports of everything from movies and news to software and consulting services. Exports of such products totalled $40 billion in 1995, the draft report noted.
The idea is to hitch U.S. exports to the speeding Internet commerce train. Sales of goods and services online are projected to grow to $7 billion in the year 2000, from about $1 billion this year, according to market researchers at Jupiter Communications.
"Companies have told us there would be a tremendous potential to increase world trade across the Internet if we could provide the right kind of environment," Magaziner said.
The draft report, called "A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce," covers nine issues, from taxation and customs to privacy and security.
On taxation, the draft report echoes a report issued by the Treasury Department last month by stating no new taxes should be imposed. Acting through the World Trade Organisation, the United States should push for the Internet to be designated a duty-free zone, the draft said.
Some consumers worry that their privacy will be violated when they shop online. The report said governments should push vendors to disclose what will be done with information about consumers rather than dictate to merchants what they can or cannot do with the data.
On some issues, such as encryption -- encoding information in a scrambled format to provide a measure of security or privacy -- existing administration policies may be seen as conflicting with the free market approach of the draft report.
Magaziner said policies will evolve over time, "but the paper will reflect where we are now."
Magaziner headed Clinton's failed effort to reform the U.S. health care system, an initiative critics said favoured government over the private sector.
While disagreeing with his critics' characterisation of the health care plan, Magaziner said the Internet "is a wholly different animal.
"I'm a problem solver, not an ideologue," he said.
The state of Alaska has asked the Federal Communications Commission to ban broadcast advertising of hard liquor, adding to the controversy over whether liquor ads should be allowed on television and radio.
Lawyers said the state's petition -- backed by former U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop -- was significant.
It could be used at the least as a vehicle within the FCC to generate public debate on the issue, or as a catalyst leading to rules restricting broadcast liquor promotions.
"Whenever you have a state formally asking the FCC to step in, it legitimises the involvement of the commission for any 'doubting Thomases' that might remain," said attorney Nick Allard of Latham &amp; Watkins.
The FCC is divided over the issue. Chairman Reed Hundt favours banning the ads if TV stations refuse to abide by a voluntary ban. But two of the FCC's four commissioners have doubts over the FCC's authority to act in the matter.
FCC officials have yet to decide how to handle the Alaska request, which was submitted last month but drew little notice. They also have not yet decided how to respond to a recent bipartisan request from 26 members of Congress asking the FCC to open a formal investigation into broadcast liquor ads.
The split among commissioners has stymied action for now.
The Federal Trade Commission has opened a formal investigation into alcoholic beverage advertising on TV, both for liquor and beer. It is training its sights for now on distiller Joseph E. Seagram &amp; Sons and the Stroh Brewery Co. Seagram is a subsidiary of Montreal-based Seagram Co.
Alaska, in its petition, asserted that the FCC does have the jurisdiction to act and called for speedy action.
"Advertising of distilled spirits on television and radio will inevitably increase the use of this potent drug among the nation's young people," Alaska said in its petition, written by the state's attorney general, Bruce Botelho, and Assistant Attorney General Stephen Slotnick.
The petition cited data showing that Alaska's per-capita alcohol consumption was third-highest in the nation in 1994.
Alaska made its request after the nation's distillers last month ended their decades-old voluntary ban on broadcast ads. It had been in place since 1936 for radio and 1948 for TV.
In June, Seagram began airing TV ads for its Royal Crown whiskey in Texas.
Some dismissed Alaska's bid.
"It's fair to say the Alaska proposal and (the state's) alcohol problem have more to do with a lack of sunlight than whether Seagram advertises for its whiskey," said attorney Robert Corn-Revere of Hogan &amp; Hartson.
"An FCC ban of hard-liquor advertising would have a very hard chance of surviving judicial review," he added.
But others said a carefully crafted FCC proposal -- such as restricting the ads until after 10 p.m. or later -- could withstand judicial scrutiny. "The courts have looked favourably on regulations designed to protect children," said attorney George Vradenberg of Latham &amp; Watkins.
Lawyers said the FCC must decide what, if any, action it wants to take. Some within the FCC suggest putting the Alaska and congressional requests out for public comment to allow the agency to learn more about the issue.
"Let's take it one step at a time," said an FCC official.
Several U.S. computer retailers reported a sluggish start to the big holiday season, with November sales showing ongoing weakness and heavy promotions, which may bode poorly for sales of consumer PCs this quarter.
But retailers also noted in their monthly reports that the November holiday shopping season was shorter this month, because of the late Thanksgiving holiday weekend in the U.S.
"Bad would be a better word than sluggish," said Stephen Baker, a retail channel analyst at International Data Corp. "Promotional is a code word for lower profits."  
Circuit City Stores Inc, the largest retailer of brand-name consumer electronics and a leading retailer of personal computers, said that industry sales remained weak.
The Richmond, Va.-based company reported an eight percent increase over total November 1995 sales, but its comparable store sales fell eight percent in November.
"Industry sales trends remained weak and promotional activity intensified," said Richard Sharp, Circuit City's chairman and CEO, in a statement.
Best Buy Co Inc, based in Minneapolis, said that the PC category "became more promotional in November."  
"Third quarter sales were well below earlier expectations," said Allen Lenzmeier, Best Buy chief financial officer. Third quarter sales were up four percent.
But for the four-week period ending November, Best Buy's comparable store sales in the month of November fell eight percent, versus an increase of 15 percent last November.
"The numbers in general in computer retailing were pretty weak," said Tom Courtney, a Montgomery Securities analyst. He estimates that in the computer category at Circuit City, for example, November sales fell 20-25 percent. "Those data points suggest that it's pretty weak out there."  
"We think that what's happening is there is a big shift to the direct channel," Courtney added, referring to direct resellers such as Dell Computer Corp and Gateway 2000 Inc, which sell PCs through phone and mail order.
Analysts said that the big surge in PC sales this fourth quarter is expected to come from sales to the corporate sector instead of the typcially money-losing consumer arena. And there are no major innovations this quarter driving consumers into the stores for a "must have" purchase of a PC.
"The market of first-time buyers seems to be shrinking," said Baker of IDC, which is based in Framingham, Mass.  
"You've already gotten a PC into the homes that can afford a decent quality PC.  The rest of the households say it's either too much or what am I going to do with it," Baker said.
"This is the first Christmas in a few years when there hasn't been a really compelling new reason to buy a PC," said Nick Donatiello, president of Odyssey LP, a market research firm in San Francisco. "Last Christmas and the year before you had CD-ROMs, fast modems, the Internet and new Pentium chips."
Tandy Corp was lukewarm about the start of the season.  "Traffic in our stores was very good the first few days after Thanksgiving," CEO John Roach said in a statement.  
Tandy's comparable store sales in November at its RadioShack outlets were down five percent, Computer City was up three percent and its Incredible Universe superstore sales were flat.  Total comparable store sales in November were down two percent from the prior year.
But some analysts who follow personal computer hardware makers are not terribly worried by the sluggish retail environment, because they are looking to corporate sales for the bigger profits this quarter.  The consumer sector, fraught with price cuts, is still barely profitable for some.  
Even before Thanksgiving, industry leader Compaq Computer Corp cut prices on its Presario home PCs by up to 21 percent. Analysts said Sony cut prices on new PCs.
"I don't think it means a lot," said Andrew Neff, a Bear Stearns analyst, of the sluggish start to the holiday season. "People are in no hurry to buy."
Neff added that this year, PC makers are expecting corporate sales to be the driver of PC growth, not consumer sales. Dataquest Inc has predicted that the PC market will grow at about 19.7 percent worldwide in 1996, which is still strong but is a slower growth rate than the record growth of 24.7 percent growth in 1995.
"I just view anything that happens in retail as icing on the cake," Neff said.
Profits at Canada's six big banks topped C$6 billion ($4.4 billion) in 1996, smashing last year's C$5.2 billion ($3.8 billion) record as Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and National Bank of Canada wrapped up the earnings season on Thursday.
The six banks each reported a double-digit jump in net income for a combined profit of C$6.26 billion ($4.6 billion) in fiscal 1996 ended Oct. 31.
But a third straight year of record profits came amid growing public anger over perceived high service charges and credit card rates, and tight lending policies.
Bank officials defended the group's performance, saying that millions of Canadians owned bank shares through mutual funds and pension plans.
Shareholders of four of the six banks were rewarded with healthy dividend hikes this year.
"Our activities mean jobs, investment, tax revenue, dividend payments and foreign income for Canada's economy," CIBC chairman Al Flood said after the bank reported a 35 percent jump in net income on Thursday.
CIBC, Canada's second-largest bank, said net income climbed to C$1.36 billion ($1 billion) in fiscal 1996 from C$1.01 billion ($743 million) in 1995.
CIBC also boosted its quarterly dividend by C5 cents (3.6 cents) to C50 cents (37 cents), the second increase in 1996.
Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Royal Bank of Canada previously raised their payouts as well.
Royal Bank, Canada's largest bank, reported the highest corporate profit in Canadian history on Wednesday, with 1996 net income rising 13 percent to C$1.43 billion ($1.05 billion).
Bank of Nova Scotia and Bank of Montreal cracked the billion-dollar barrier this year, joining CIBC and Royal Bank, which crossed the threshold in 1995 and 1994 respectively.
National Bank, the smallest of the big six, posted a 30 percent jump in net income to C$318 million ($234 million) this year.
The banks attributed their performances to lower credit losses and healthy commercial and personal banking. Investment banking, brokerage and mutual fund businesses also enjoyed a banner year as financial markets soared in 1996.
Earnings at CIBC's Wood Gundy Inc. investment arm skyrocketed 122 percent to C$528 million ($389 million) in 1996.
The group's earnings and dividend hikes were in line or slightly better than analysts' forecasts.
"It was good news and a fairly good outlook for 1997 in terms of earnings and dividends," said Hugh Brown, a banking analyst with investment dealer Nesbitt Burns Inc.
Brown said he now had a more positive outlook for bank earnings in 1997, saying Big Six profits may grow between 9 and 10 percent next year, up from previous growth forecasts of about 7 percent.
Bank stocks, which have led the Toronto Stock Exchange to new heights since September, fell on Thursday in tandem with the rest of the market. CIBC led the decline, dropping C$2.25 ($1.65) to C$57.25 ($42) in late trading.
British property group MEPC on Thursday announced a 14 percent increase in pretax profits for the year but said a writedown on a Los Angeles shopping mall had reduced its net asset value (NAV).
MEPC's chief executive said he was pleased with the rise in pretax profits to 140 million pounds ($227.2 million) from 122.6 million pounds the previous year, but admitted disappointment at the fall in NAV to 450 pence per share from 457 pence.
MEPC shares were 11p lower at 441-1/2p by 1218 GMT as traders said the NAV was below market expectations.
"We feel very confident about the whole of the profit statement. The only slight disappointment is on the NAV side," Tuckey said in an interview. Earnings per share rose nine percent to 22.9 pence and the total dividend stayed at 20 pence.
Tuckey said the NAV drop reflected a marginal fall in values both in Britain and elsewhere but it was less than the relevant indices. "We feel that the performance of our UK portfolio, which accounts for 70 percent of the group, is indeed where we would have expected it to be."
He pointed out the valuation date for the portfolio was August 31 and there had been activity and evidence of an improved market since then. "If we redid the valuation for December 1, we would probably get a different answer," he said.
The other factor which had brought the NAV down was the 31 million pound write-down on the valuation of MEPC's Northridge Mall. This had been equivalent to 7.5 pence per share.
"We are convinced this is a temporary write-down because the centre is still getting back on its feet after the earthquake some three years ago. We are quite confident we will get that value back in the next two to three years as the centre re-establishes itself," he said.
And he defended MEPC's decision to give a target NAV of 690 pence per share for 2001.
"We're sticking our necks out...The portfolio is very very different to what it was three years ago and what we're trying to do is give shareholders some feel of where we think the performance is going to be in five years time," Tuckey said.
Tuckey said the full impact of the change of strategy in MEPC's portfolio would take time but there would be progress towards the firm's targets each year.
He said there was a much firmer tone to the markets, particularly in Britain over the last few months. Apart from Northridge, the rest of the U.S. portfolio had performed "extremely well".
MEPC plans to keep the lion's share of its portfolio in Britain, with the remainder in the United States and Australia. It has wound down its European portfolio and has no plans to go back into continental Europe in the immediate future.
Tuckey said the group was keen to make acquisitions, with the proceeds of its European disposals, but that there was a shortage of good stock available, particularly in Britain.
While MEPC has resolved to increase the dividend paid to shareholders, Tuckey said he could not predict when it would be increased although he pointed out that dividend cover had improved to 1.15 times from 1.05 a year before.
"It depends on the forward look, on how the markets are feeling," he said. The market was competitive and good stock was hard to find but Tuckey said he welcomed the prospect of changes to the way the market functioned with more liquidity likely.
($1=.6161 Pound)
British food and drinks giant Grand Metropolitan Plc posted a six percent rise in annual profits before tax on Thursday to 965 million pounds ($1.6 billion).
Chairman George Bull said trading in the current year had started "satisfactorily" as the company outlined a strategy of steady organic growth.
Profits grew 30 percent at its North American foods business Pillsbury to 431 million pounds, with both sales and prices up, and its spirits arm International Distillers and Vitners (IDV) posted a four percent increase in trading profit to 471 million.
GrandMet shares fell back 8p to 448p however, as investors and analysts worried about the effects of a strong pound against the dollar on GrandMet's profits next year.
Pillsbury and fast food chain Burger King generate about 60 percent of group earnings in dollars. The pound stood at $1.493 on May 1 and has since risen to $1.6477.
"The main reason is the currency translation which means a lot of analysts will be downgrading their forecasts for next year and earnings growth will remain in single figures," said one analyst who declined to be named.
In an interview, group finance director Gerald Corbett said GrandMet had embarked on an era of steady, organic growth driven by profits from Pillsbury and spirits arm IDV.
"The message is steady as she goes, managing what we have got, building our brands and keeping the ship on a steady course," Corbett said.
The avowed strategy of steady, organic growth from GrandMet contrasts sharply with former chairman Lord Sheppard's era of frenetic acquisitions and disposals.
Corbett said the company is confident it can achieve the same level of profits growth at Pillsbury next year. Sales at Pillsbury were up four percent and prices three percent while margins rose 0.7 of a percentage point to 12.2 percent.
"We are not looking for a sharp improvement in demand in the states and equally we see no evidence of deterioration."
Pillsbury included a full year from Pet, producer of Old El Paso and Italian foods and soups, which was acquired in February 1995. The division was able to cash in on rising raw material costs in the United States by lifting prices on all its major brands like Haagen-Dazs ice cream, Green Giant and Pillsbury.
At IDV GrandMet plans to get price rises through of another two to three percent on average next year, said Corbett.
IDV's spirits sales up five percent and average price rises of two percent in the year ended September 30. Profits growth in Europe was led by drinkers in Britain and Spain. Spirits sales in emerging markets were up 15 percent.
"We think we have done rather better on pricing than our competitors as we started investing on brand equity about two years ago whereas they have yet to really put their foot on the accelerator," said Corbett.
He sited the fact GrandMet got its first price rise for five years through in April on Smirnoff vodka in the United States.
GrandMet plans to spend 30 to 40 million pounds more on marketing its IDV brands this year, said Corbett, after spending 420 million in 1995-96. Again the bulk of its marketing spend will go behind liqueur Bailey's, Smirnoff, and J&amp;B whisky.
Overall marketing expenditure was up 16 percent at 1.2 billion pounds in its year ended September 30.
But operating profits from Burger King fell 29 million to 167 million pounds in the year, hit by difficult trading in Britain and Germany due to the beef crisis and the slowing pace of refranchising outlets. The company opened 756 restaurants in the year to bring its worldwide total to 8,696.
GrandMet plans to ask for shareholder approval at its annual meeting in March to buy back up to 10 percent of its own shares.
Corbett said the company is "reviewing a number of options" but declined to say what they were or talk about the timing or size of any buyback. ($1=.6054 Pound)
Gareth Davies, chief executive of British cigarette maker Imperial Tobacco, which de-merged from conglomerate Hanson in October, said on Thursday it was difficult to see growth in Britain, although it hoped to make this up by expansion in the Asia- Pacific region.
"In Britian it is difficult to see the market growing given the punitive taxes. We are likely to see continued strong growth, though, in the Asia Pacific area of the world," he said.  
Earlier, Imperial posted profits of 303 million stg from Britain in the year ended September 28, unchanged from its 1995 level but profits from overseas grew 55 percent to 70 million.
Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Kenneth Clarke, announced an increase of 15p on a packet of 20 cigarettes in his November Budget. After a similar rise in 1995, British cigarette sales fell by 2.5 percent to 81 billion.
Davies said he expected the same sort of fall again. He said the latest tax rise would fuel smuggling by widening further the gap between taxes in Britain and mainland Europe.
British property group MEPC said on Thursday it was pleased with a rise in pretax profits for the year but admitted disappointment at a fall in its net asset value (NAV) to 450 pence per share from 457 pence.
"We feel very confident about the whole of the profit statement. The only slight disappointment is on the NAV side," James Tuckey, MEPC's chief executive, said in an interview.
Earlier MEPC announced a 14 percent increase in pretax profit for the year to 140 million stg from 122.6 million stg. Earnings per share rose nine percent to 22.9 pence.  
Tuckey said the NAV fall reflected a marginal fall in values both in Britain and elsewhere but said the NAV drop was less than the relevant indices.
"We feel that the performance of our UK portfolio, which accounts for 70 percent of the group, is indeed where we would have expected it to be," he added.
He pointed out the valuation date was August 31 and there had been activity and evidence of an improvement in the market since then. "If we redid the valuation for December 1, we would probably get a different answer," he said.  
Tuckey said the other factor which had brought the NAV down was a significant 31 million stg write-down on the valuation of MEPC's Northridge Mall in Los Angeles. This had been equivalent to 7.5 pence per share.
"We are convinced this is a temporary write-down because the centre is still getting back on its feet after the earthquake some three years ago. We are quite confident we will get that value back in the next two to three years as the centre re-establishes itself," Tuckey said.
"We felt that we wanted to share as much information as we could with shareholders," he added.  
MEPC's decision to give a target NAV of 690 pence per share for 2001 reflected its repositioning of its portfolio.
"We're sticking our necks out...The portfolio is very very different to what it was three years ago and what we're trying to do is give shareholders some feel of where we think the performance is going to be in five years time," Tuckey said.
"We believe we need to share with our stakeholders what it is we are trying to achieve."
Tuckey said the full impact of the change of strategy in MEPC's portfolio would take time but there would be progress towards the firm's targets each year.  
He said there was a much firmer tone to the markets, particularly in the UK over the last few months. Apart from Northridge, the rest of the U.S. portfolio had performed "extremely well".
MEPC plans to keep the lion's share of its portfolio in the UK, with the remainder in the U.S. and Australia. It has wound down its European portfolio and has no plans to go back into continental Europe in the immediate future.
Tuckey said the group was keen to make acquisitions, with the proceeds of its European disposals, but that there was a shortage of good stock available, particularly in the UK.  
While MEPC has resolved to increase the dividend paid to shareholders, Tuckey said he could not predict when it would be increased although he pointed out that dividend cover had improved to 1.15 times from 1.05 a year before.
"It depends on the forward look, on how the markets are feeling," he said. The market was competitive and good stock was hard to find but Tuckey said he welcomed the prospect of changes to the way the market functioned with more liquidity likely.
"I think there are changes afoot and they are changes for the good because what they will allow is greater liquidity for the sector, possibly through derivatives or the property investment trusts that have been talked about," he said, adding that MEPC would be involved in any such developments.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Food to drinks group Grand Metropolitan Plc has embarked on a period of steady growth driven by profits from its American foods business Pillsbury and spirits arm IDV, said group finance director Gerald Corbett.
"We would love to clap our hands and wonderful things to happen. But life is not like that. Life is about steady improvement of one's basic position. Moving the profits forward, managing the costs, generating cash," said Corbett."The message is steady as she goes, managing what we have got, building our brands and keeping the ship on a steady course."  
Earlier the company announced a six percent increase in its pretax profits to 965 million stg for the year ended September 30, 1996. GrandMet shares fell 6p to 451p as the figures came in below the market forecast consensus of 972 million.
The avowed strategy of steady, organic growth from GrandMet contrasts sharply with former chairman Lord Sheppard's era of frenetic acquisitions and disposals.
Corbett said the company is confident it can achieve the same level of 10 percent organic growth at Pillsbury next year.  
In the year ended September 30, 1996 Pillsbury grew operating profit 30 percent to 431 million, sales were up four percent and prices three percent. U.S. operating margins were up 0.7 percentage points at 12.2 percent.
"All our consumer indices show that its steady as she goes. We are not looking for a sharp improvement in demand in the states and equally we see no evidence of deterioration. We have begun the year satisfactorily and we are in good shape for another good year at Pillsbury," said Corbett. Pillsbury has lifted its margins steadily over the last four years and "there is no reason to suppose that upward trend won't continue."  
At its spirits arm, International Distillers and Vintners, (IDV) GrandMet plans to get price rises through of another two to three percent on average next year, said Corbett.
"We think we have done rather better on pricing than our competitors as we started investing on brand equity about two years ago whereas they have yet to really put their foot on the accellerator," said Corbett.
As an example Corbett cited GrandMet's move to impose its first price rise for five years in April on Smirnoff in the U.S. Other spirits companies are finding it tougher getting consumers to accept price increases on their brands.  
GrandMet plans to spend 30 to 40 million more on marketing its brands this year, said Corbett, after spending 420 million in 1995/96. Again the bulk of its marketing spend will go behind liquor Bailey's, vodka Smirnoff and J&amp;B whisky.
Overall marketing expenditure was up 16 percent at 1.2 billion stg in its 1995/96 year.
IDV reported operating profits up four percent at 471 million, sales were up four perecent and prices up two percent. Sales of spirits were up five percent and profits growth in the region was led by Britain and Spain. Spirits sales in emerging markets were up 15 percent.  
At fast food chain Burger King profits were held back by fears over the health risks of eating beef in Britain and Germany as well as the decline in refranchising stores. The company plans to open another 800 new stores next year, up from 756 in 1995/96. It currently has at total 8,696 restaurants. Burger King posted a 29 million stg drop in trading profit to 167 million stg.
Corbett said GrandMet should achieve 30 million stg in cost savings in 1996/97. This comes on top of cost-savings of 120 million stg identified by the company at the time of its restructuring three years ago.
"Our major objective is to improve the return on capital," he said, adding that GrandMet's post tax return on total invested capital is about 8.0 percent which the company hopes to push into double digits in the next three years.
GrandMet should be able to reduce its debt to 2.2 billion stg by the end of its 1996/97 financial year, taking its interest cover to just under eight times, said Corbett.
The company will ask for shareholder approval at its annual meeting in March to buy back up to 10 percent of its own shares.
Corbett said the company is "reviewing a number of options" but declined to say what they were or talk about the timing or size of any buyback.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
No final deal was in sight Wednesday for Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp., which are in the midst of forging a deal on one of the world's biggest gold deposits -- Indonesia's Busang.
As a Wednesday deadline slid by, Bre-X and Barrick said they were still trying to hammer out several issues, leaving the market to speculate about the status of negotiations.
A few issues remain to be solved, and Bre-X will have more news on the negotiations "shortly," Chief Executive David Walsh said in an interview from New York.
He said the main issues that stand in the way of a full agreement with Barrick are "regulatory" but maintained he was prevented by a confidentiality agreement to give details.
"We need certain additional comfort in any agreement that would satisfy the regulatory authorities and our shareholders," he said.
The Indonesian government directed Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick by Dec. 4, with Barrick getting 75 percent of Bre-X's stake in the rich gold discovery and Bre-X keeping 25 percent. The companies were invited to consider giving the Indonesian government 10 percent of the rich find.
As the clocked ticked, Bre-X issued a statement saying no new deadline had been set by the Indonesian Mines Ministry. It said it expected the Ministry of Mines to clarify its stand on the outstanding issues "in due course."
The direction of negotiations is in the hands of the Indonesian government, Walsh said.
"We are waiting on the answers we get from the Minister of Mines," he said.
Sources close to the talks said Indonesian mining officials had left Jakarta and would not be back until Dec. 9.
"I think both sides are probably worried about the so-called deadline, which has come and gone," said gold analyst John Ing with Maison Placements Canada Inc. "It's back in the lap of the Indonesians."
In Jakarta, a senior Indonesian mines official said the government of President Suharto would explore other possibilities to develop Busang if the two companies fail to clinch a deal.
"If they cannot reach an agreement, the government will take the necessary and appropriate action ... to expedite the development of Busang's resouces," Umar Said, secretary-general of the Mines Department, told a news conference in Jakarta.
"What the action will be ... I have to get back to the government. This is not my playground," he added.
Meanwhile, investors pushed up Bre-X's stock C$1.30 to close at C$20.10 ($14.84) in heavy trading in Toronto Wednesday, while Barrick rose C$1.45 to C$39.30 ($29.01).
"People think there's an agreement that will come out sooner rather than later," said gold analyst Catherine Gignac of Deacon Capital in Toronto.
But she noted that the uncertainty surrounding the negotiations was preventing Bre-X's stock from rising to meet the level of rumoured offers of about C$25 ($18.50) a share from Barrick.
"We're actually hearing that (the deal) is done and they're just dotting the i's and crossing the t's," Gignac said. "Everything has been set. We just don't know the details."
But a source close to the negotiations said he understood that the two companies did not have a deal and were trying to get a deadline extension from the Indonesian government.
The latest deadline is the second the two companies missed. They let a deadline at the end of November slip by too, sources said.
Possible stumbling blocks in the talks include price, how to pay for the deal and a series of threatened lawsuits over Bre-X's claims, analysts said.
Waiting to pounce on the deposit if the Indonesian government does open the door to outside bidding is another North American gold giant -- Placer Dome Inc., which seemed to be positioning itself in case the Barrick, Bre-X talks fail.
"I don't think today's deadline had any great significance," Placer spokesman Hugh Leggatt said in Vancouver, British Columbia. He added that the company still hoped to be allowed to form a partnership with Bre-X to develop Busang.
"We're not discouraged. It's going to be a long process," he said.
Newmont Mining Corp. and Teck Corp. also expressed an interest in Busang, which is located deep in the jungle in East Kalimantan on the island of Borneo.
A war of words between Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) and its watchdog broke out on Friday after the company rejected stringent price cut proposals and asked for a Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC) referral.
Charles Coulthard, Northern Irish deputy director general for electricity supply, accused NIE of trying to raise prices by rejecting his plans that would chop more than 300 million pounds ($467 million) off revenues over a five-year period.
"...when I had expected that NIE would be working with me to tackle the problem of Northern Ireland's high electricity costs they instead have chosen for the first time since privatisation to deliberately seek to increase the price which customers in Northern Ireland must pay for electricity," he stated.
Patrick Haren, NIE chief executive, scorned the statement as "garbage" and "quite disgraceful". He reminded Coulthard that under NIE's proposals, average domestic customer power bills would fall by 35 pounds next year, rising to 50 pounds per year by 2002.
"I have never heard anything so oustandingly outlandish," he told reporters. "Where on earth the man got this...from is beyond me. We unreservedly refute the nonsense of it."
"If this is what passes for dialogue at Offer (the Office of Electricity Regulation) it is quite obvious why we need to have our review assessed by the MMC."
NIE's troubled shares hit another year low of 322 pence, a loss of 11 pence. Most analysts had been surprised at the savage review, but did not believe the group would risk further uncertainty by asking for a lengthy MMC investigation.
Nigel Hawkins, utilities analyst at Yamichi, said the MMC referral may prompt a similar move by National Grid, the electricity transmission network, which last week urged its shareholders to help fight its own price review.
"They (NIE) have a stronger balance sheet than National Grid, so if they think they have a lousy deal then National Grid could well follow suit," Hawkins said. NIE chairman David Jefferies is also the chairman of the National Grid.
NIE is proposing a 22 percent one-off price cut next year followed by a three percent cut in power bills in each of the next four years -- a level it calls tough but sustainable.
However Offer's Northern Irish office wants prices across NIE's three main businesses cut by an average one-off 31 percent, or 68 million pounds, next April followed by a two percent cut in annual charges in the following years.
Bills in Northern Ireland have traditionally been about 20 percent higher than in England and Wales, partly because of the sparse population in the area. It has around half the customers of the smallest English and Welsh regional electricity groups.
NIE also blames escalating oil prices and the high prices independent generating companies charge. They account for about 60 percent of customer bills.
($1=.6420 Pound)
The Hong Kong government was in a flap on Thursday after a bombshell admission that Britain could not protect Hong Kong holders of British passports after China takes over the colony next July.
Governor Chris Patten called an urgent meeting of the Legislative Council for later on Thursday to make a statement on the controversy, which arose after a British envoy said London could provide no consular protection for the passport holders.
Patten's spokesman said the issue had sparked "considerable public interest and a good deal of misunderstanding" as well as demands by legislators to meet him.
Patten would answer their questions at the extraordinary sitting of Legco on Thursday evening.
The uproar is the latest jolt in Hong Kong's often bumpy transition back to Chinese rule 208 days from now, when 150 years of colonial rule will end and the territory will become an autonomous region of China.
Britain's Senior Trade Commissioner, Francis Cornish, said on Tuesday that London could not protect the more than 135,000 Hong Kong people granted full British passports with right of abode in Britain under a special selection scheme in 1990.
In a concession to widespread demands for full British citizenship after Beijing's 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown, London offered passports to 50,000 Hong Kong households, a privileged fraction of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people.
Cornish said China regarded these people as holders of dual citizenship and would not recognise British consular protection for them on Chinese soil, on the mainland or in Hong Kong.
Cornish's remarks were denounced by local politicians as a sell-out. In the corridors of the Hong Kong government even the most senior officials were privately criticising Britain for what they saw as a concession to China, one source said.
On Wednesday, London and the Hong Kong government rushed to assure affected passport holders that anyone claiming sole British nationality would receive consular protection until it was proven they held dual citizenship.
But a British statement made clear Britain could not give full consular protection for people holding dual Chinese nationality once Hong Kong becomes part of China again.
British officials said the passports issued to these people were indistinguishable from any other full British passport, but many in Hong Kong are concerned that Britain may have learned that China had obtained the names of the passport hodlers.
"The only way to know for sure if one of these passports was issued under the special scheme would be if you had the names," a senior government source said.
The transition to Chinese rule has been dogged by disputes since the 1989 Beijing crackdown. China reacted furiously to the special passport scheme, and again when Patten introduced reforms expanding democracy in 1992.
China was infuriated last week when Britain unveiled a liberal anti-subversion bill that would set legal markers against China-style jailings of dissidents in Hong Kong.
British and Chinese senior negotiators are in the midst of a three-day bargaining session on handover details and have signalled they expect to announce accords on several issues on Friday, although the agenda has so far remained confidential.
Hong Kong is supposed to be autonomous and keep its capitalist system intact for another 50 years, but a human rights group said on Wednesday China's crackdown on dissent bode badly for the territory and its autonomy prospects were slim.
"The rule of law and human rights picture is bleak," said Human Rights Monitor director Law Yuk-kai on the launch of an annual human rights report.
It may sound like a dull backwater but the role of compliance has again been thrust into the limelight as yet another respected financial institution was rapped by the authorities this week for breaking the rules.
Compliance officials play a key role in banking and finance, ensuring procedures to safeguard against fraud and malpractice are adhered to from the back office to the board room.
On Thursday British investment watchdog IMRO fined companies in the Robert Fleming group 700,000 pounds ($1.09 million) and Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) secured voluntary compensation of nearly $20 million from a Robert Fleming and Jardine Matheson joint venture.
These punishments stemmed from compliance violations which also saw two individuals banned from the markets.
A compliance officer at a top international investment bank, who did not want to be named, told Reuters the irregular dealing leading to the probe was "as old as the hills".
And it was something the right checks and balances should have avoided. "I'm surprised that something as old as this has cropped up again. It's the sort of thing that any compliance officer worth his salt should have his eye open for," he added.
The joint IMRO and SFC investigation revealed that Colin Armstrong, a former senior fund manager at Jardine Fleming Investment Management, had made profits for his own account by the late allocation of deals, thereby depriving client accounts.
Compliance industry insiders said a number of red flags might have warned those in charge that something was amiss far earlier and thereby prevented much of the damage.
Larger-than-life characters and big earners are often left to their own devices and not investigated until too late.
Compliance officers first started appearing in London firms about 10 years ago, but the profile has changed significantly over this period, with many coming from the ranks of accountants and lawyers and seeking a career in the area.
Industry sources say top-ranking individuals can now earn as much as 100,000 pounds a year, including bonuses, which although falling short of what dealers earn, is attracting good people.
For a system of compliance with both internal and external rules and regulations to be wholly effective, the personnel involved not only need to be top notch, they must also have adequate resources and the full backing of senior management.
"The chief executive officer is personally accountable for compliance," the first source said. This means ensuring rules are not breached is not only in the interests of the firm, but also a question of self-preservation for the CEO.
In the Robert Fleming Asset Management (RFAM) probe, RFAM's former chief executive Robert Thomas accepted he "bore ultimate responsibility for the compliance failures...". As a result Thomas had his registration with IMRO ended.
In order to prevent the kind of dealing that Armstrong was engaged in, adequate separation between front and back offices, where the deals are struck and where they are processed, and strict rules on the use of personal accounts are critical.
Market sources noted similarities with Barings, where one of the main criticisms was that Nick Leeson, the trader who stacked up the losses which led to its collapse, was responsible not only for executing trades but settling or matching them as well.
This made it unlikely that any discrepancies in his trading would be uncovered in the back office, the sort of loophole regulators such as IMRO look for when they inspect firms.
Insiders said the Jardine Fleming outcome was a good result for the British watchdog, which came under fire for its handling of previous cases. "If you find a major problem you tell them. If it's a serious problem you tell them immediately, you certainly wouldn't sit on it," said one.
And while the incidence of breaches may appear to be on the rise, it can be argued that the trend shows the net is tightening. But even the best systems will not prevent mistakes.
"Even the best of us make mistakes. If you are a large firm problems do arise, if you find them then you take remedial action. There will always be fools, crooks and incompetents," the first compliance source said.
($1=.6420 Pound)
Protectionist policies practised by a major Chinese soybean producing province are keeping prices for the grain throughout the country artifically high, Far East traders said on Thursday.
Heilongjiang, in China's far northeast, will not allow soybeans to leave the province in any but value-added form, a policy which traders said had been enforced for three years.
"This means the bean price is being kept artificially low in Heilongjiang and artificially high in other provinces," a trader in Hong Kong said.
Despite the recent arrival on the market of a soybean crop of between 10 and 12 million tonnes, domestic prices had not fallen, trade and industry sources said.
Heilongjiang grows one-third of China's annual soybean crop.
Officials there confirmed to Reuters in September that the "policy of appropriate control", which traders characterise as a ban on sale of beans outside the province, would stay in place.
The policy aimed to meet demand from local crushing mills, which crush the beans to produce oil and meal, an official said by telephone from the provincial capital of Harbin.
But China's crushing industry is not concentrated in Heilongjiang, and traders said crushers in other regions were having to pay inflated prices for their raw material.
The National Grains and Oils Information Centre in Shanghai reported on Wednesday that grade three beans in Heilongjiang were fetching 2,840 yuan (US$342) a tonne.
By contrast, beans elsewhere were priced at up to 3,320 yuan a tonne.
Traders with western companies in the region agreed with these figures, saying beans smuggled out of Heilongjiang were commanding a hefty premium.
"Outside the province (Heilongjiang), there is a premium of 100 or 200 renminbi (yuan) a tonne for smuggling the beans," another trader said.
"There are road blocks in Heilongjiang to checks loads on trucks, people even use post office trucks to carry beans -- and they've been caught," he said.
"It is costing other provinces more money for beans."
Another industry executive said the price of domestically produced soybean meal, used to make animal feed, had also remained high despite the recent soybean harvest.
"Prices for meal are not coming down, they are still 2,900 to 3,100 renminbi per tonne," he said, levels that have prevailed for some months.
High soybean meal prices would in turn lead to high meat prices, the executive said, adding his organisation believed pork prices in China's coastal areas had risen 20 percent in the past two to three months as a result.
This year's soybean crop had been expected to drop two to three percent on the 1995 figure of 13 million tonnes, said traders who toured growing regions.
Heilongjiang's output was 4.3 million tonnes in 1995.
Traders and industry experts who visited the province in September put output there this year at 3.5 to four million tonnes.
One industry expert based in Shanghai said China's soybean supply shortfall would be 2.5 million tonnes in the coming year.
China's total soybean imports for 1996 should be around one million tonnes, traders said.
($1-8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong News Room (852) 2843-6470
China is expected to end the year without loosening its three-year old tight credit policy as rampant local fixed asset investment continues to threaten economic over-heating, analysts said on Thursday.
Earlier this year, China seemed poised to modify the austerity measures, but a surge in fixed asset projects since July has led Beijing to change its mind, they said.
In the latest high-level clue to credit policy, Vice-Premier Zhu Rongji was quoted by the official media on Thursday as saying there was a need to strictly control new fixed asset investment projects.
"There is the need to continue to curb inflation and strictly control new industrial projects," Zhu was quoted as saying during a recent visit to the eastern coastal province of Fujian.
The People's Daily, mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party, on Wednesday also criticised a rush by provinces to invest in high-profile industries, citing 22 provinces that had listed car production as one of their key industries.
"There is still the threat of a resurgence of inflation and of the economy over-heating with fixed asset investment climbing again since the central bank cut bank interest rates earlier this year," said a Beijing-based official with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC).
Growth in retail price inflation is expected to slow to six percent year on year in 1996 against 14.8 percent last year.
Official figures show that local governments around the country have allowed 700 new fixed asset investments since July.
China's State Planning Commission estimates that fixed asset investment will hit 2.3 trillion yuan ($277.1 billion) this year, about three times the level of 1992.
"The resurgence of fixed asset investment in the second half of this year seems to have made the central bank more cautious about loosening credit," a banker with the Bank of China said. "The most important signal is that the much-discussed bank reserve ratio cut now seems to be off the near-term agenda."
In mid-July, Dai Xianglong, president of the People's Bank of China, said the central bank would shortly cut bank reserve ratios by a margin possibly as large as three percent. This would release huge amounts of money into the market.
Chinese banks and other financial institutions are required to place 13 percent of their deposits with the central bank and keep another five to seven percent themselves as reserves.
Between July and October, central bank officials talked frequently about cutting the bank ratios, which were set eight years ago and have never been changed.
"But now they are focusing on the need to continue the austerity measures," said an analyst with the Communications Bank of China. "The main concern is the large amount of money in the system beyond the direct control of the central bank."
China's central bank has direct control of the four major state banks -- the ICBC, the Bank of China, the Agricultural Bank of China and the Construction Bank of China.
Credit supplied by the four banks once accounted for more than 90 percent of total loans but this proportion has now shrunk to around 70 percent and is still falling.
Analysts said the impact from a cut in bank reserve ratio could be balanced by other policy controls such as the credit quota system.
But the bulk of money liberated from other banks and financial institutions would inevitably enter the markets with the central bank being unable to directly intervene.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Toronto stocks rallied to close higher on Tuesday, surging ahead on strength in the important resource sectors.
"Canadian gold stocks led Canadian stock prices higher," said Richardson Greenshields analyst Linda Lehman in a market report. The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index jumped 33.32 points to reach 5150.89 points.
So far in August the key index has climbed out of its July lows to reach heights it has not hit since early June.
"We're not far from our highs," said P and C Holdings president Ron Meisels. Toronto's key index hit its all-time high of 5248 points on May 28, 1986.
At this point in the bullish economic cycle, market players are investing in resource stocks, Meisels said.
Trading reached 87.98 million shares valued at C$1.25 billion (US$910.4 million.)
Markets are also now debating whether the Bank of Canada will ease short-term interest rates since the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee did not raise rates at its meeting today, analysts have said.
Canada's central bank can risk the rate cut without excessively widening bond spreads between the two nations. This may help boost interest in equities.
Golds led all of Toronto's 14 sub-indices higher, gaining 1.38 percent. They were followed by transportation issues, base metals and media issues.
Advancing stocks beat out declining ones 507 to 361, while 275 traded unchanged.
Among active stocks, heavyweight Barrick Gold Corp. jumped C$0.35 to C$37.90.
Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd. was Toronto's most active stock in turnover of 2.7 million shares. The small prospector slipped 0.06 to 1.44 after recent strength as investors await drill results.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100
In May 1945, seven-year-old Madlenka Korbelova sat glued to a radio in London, listening with her exiled Czech diplomat father to news of the U.S. army's liberation of the western part of her native land.
They cheered when General George Patton's army forced Nazi soldiers out of the famous brewery town of Pilsen.
They cursed when the general was forced to hold back his troops and let the Red Army take Prague according to the deal struck with the Soviets at Yalta many months before.
"I remember the broadcasts as the Nazis were pushed back across Czechoslovakia, and I remember my parents cheering and wishing they had gone further," she told hundreds American and Czech veterans in Pilsen a half century later.
Weaned in London bomb shelters and reared on the Cold War, the diplomat's daughter, now known as Madeleine Albright, is in line to be the first woman to serve as U.S. Secretary of State.
On Thursday, the ruddy-faced girl, who returned to Prague after Nazi occupation only to leave her homeland again after a Communist coup, was chosen by President Bill Clinton to be the highest-ranking woman ever in the U.S. government.
Senate confirmation of her appointment is still required.
By the accounts of friends and diplomats who know her, Albright's life has consistently shown the influences of her father and her post-war childhood.
"Her relations to this country is deep," Czech ambassador to Washington Michael Zantovsky told Reuters. "Her's is still the Czech of a native. This country has a big friend in her."
Her father, Josef Korbel, a close aide to Czechoslovak Foreign Minister Jan Masaryk during the World War Two government-in-exile in London, served as post-War ambassador to Belgrade and later a delegate to the new United Nations.
During that period, family photos show his young daughter Marie -- Madlenka in the Czech dimunitive -- dressed in frilly traditional Czech costume to greet visiting dignitaries.
After the post-War government was deposed by communists in 1948, Korbel sent a cable from Belgrade saying he was leaving with his family on vacation. The last entry from his Foreign Ministry file showed Korbel being "sent for holidays".
Korbel received asylum with his family of five in America, and settled in Colorado. Madlenka started a new life at age 11.
The father became a professor of European history and politics and eventually a dean at the University of Denver, and earned worldwide respect as an expert on 20th century Central and Eastern Europe. He died in 1977, aged 69.
Albright became fully "Americanised" attending a Denver high school and then Wellesley College in Massachusets, but she kept Prague close to her heart -- in her academic studies and later in her career as a diplomat.
After earning a doctorate in political studies at Columbia University, Albright -- who married newspaper heir Joseph Albright and later divorced -- made the Communist takeover of her homeland a frequent focus of her lectures and papers.
As a tough-nosed diplomat she repeatedly has spoken of the effects of Europe's appeasement of Adolph Hitler in 1938's Munich agreement which led to Germany's occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1939, causing her family to flee to London.
After Prague's 1989 fall of communism, the leader of the bloodless "Velvet Revloution", the playwright-turned-president Vaclav Havel asked her to advise his new democratic government.
On her first official visit to Prague as U.S. ambassador to the U.N. in 1994, she walked into the palacial Foreign Ministry and memories came flooding back.
"I came here in 1945 when I was eight-years-old. This is an emotional and sentimental moment for me," Albright said while gazing at the palace ceiling.
She has acted as Bill and Hillary Clinton's tour guide in her home town -- once joining Havel to hear the American president play saxaphone in a smoky jazz concert in a Prague club during a 1995 state visit.
Prague sees her as a strong advocate of Czech membership in NATO and the alliance's expansion to former Soviet satellites.
Havel, recently speaking on the prosepcts of Albright becoming Secretary of State said what "matters, is the fact that she is a lady with a good knowledge of the European situation, Central European situation."
"She is, thanks to her origins, more sensitive to the issues which concern us," Havel said.
Clinton has called for the first wave of NATO expansion by the year 2000, and diplomats widely believe that the Czechs are at the top of the list along with Poland and Hungary.
"I think that the problems of this area are well understood in the heart of the American government," Albright said during of one her visits to Prague as U.N ambassador.
Members of the Transport and General Workers Union (T&amp;G) at Tradeteam, the distribution arm of the brewing operation of Britain's Bass Plc, are to vote on strike action over proposed pay cuts, the union said on Friday.
The union said in a statement that the ballot of more than 1,000 workers at Tradeteam would start on December 9 and the result would be known on December 20.
Bass said there was no threat to the delivery of drinks to its customers in the run up to the busy Christmas period.
The T&amp;G said the ballot was going ahead after an attempt by Tradeteam, a joint venture between Bass and NFC, to have it halted by a legal injunction failed on Friday.
"Since Bass established Tradeteam in a joint venture with Exel Logistics, management has been trying to cut wages by 100 stg per week and impose inferior working conditions in order to save 10 million stg a year," the union said.
It said Tradeteam had also rejected T&amp;G attempts to establish national bargaining. The T&amp;G said a Liverpool judge had refused to grant an injunction to stop the ballot.
"Bass Brewers Ltd is a very profitable company, which made over 157 million pounds profit over the last year. Their aim at Tradeteam has been to cut the wages of draymen and warehouse workers, many of whom have given over 20 years' loyal service to the company," T&amp;G national secretary for the drinks industry Brian Revell said.
Draymen deliver beer and other drinks to pubs.
"I am pleased that the judge refused the injunction. We are prepared for a long battle with Bass until it honours its responsibilities," he added.
A spokesman for Tradeteam, which is 50.1 percent owned by NFC, denied a trade dispute existed with the union.
"There is no trade dispute with the T&amp;G. Current settlements on pay and conditions between Tradeteam and its staff represented by the T&amp;G have been made with full agreement of the T&amp;G at local branch level," he told Reuters.
"To agree to national wage agreements would mean Tradeteam would be totally out of step with the rest of the industry."
He said the union had been involved throughout the consultation process. This had resulted in the current terms and conditions for staff at each of the local offices at which the T&amp;G was represented, he added.
Bass Brewers said the decision to vote on strike action would not affect beer deliveries over Christmas.
"Obviously the strike issue is one for Tradeteam but we want to reassure customers this will not affect their beer deliveries during or before the Christmas period," Stewart Cain of Bass Brewers told Reuters.
Earlier this week brewer-to-leisure group Bass, the parent company, said it planned to spend 670 million pounds on the business next year, creating some 7,000 jobs.
It said it planned a 300 million pounds investment programme over the next year on its Bass Taverns, converting many pubs to branded concept bars.
British Telecommunications (BT) and its American partner MCI will "move heaven and earth" to link up with Japan's restructured telecoms giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT), analysts said on Friday.
BT welcomed news that the Japanese government had decided to split NTT into three parts under one holding company as part of its efforts to reach a compromise while liberalising the world's second biggest telecoms market.
"BT...welcomes the news that NTT is to be given the opportunity to operate on a truly international basis," a company spokesman told Reuters.
The British telecoms giant, which announced last month that it wanted to merge with America's second biggest long-distance carrier MCI to create Concert Plc, has openly stated that the enlarged group should give it more clout to woo NTT as part of its ticket into the booming Asian telecoms markets.
But he declined to say whether news that Japan will restructure NTT into two regional and one long-distance group would help BT in its quest to link up with the Japanese titan.
"We've always said we'd like NTT to be our partner in Japan," he said, but added: "We can't say whether this makes it easier and better..."
Analysts said that Japan's decision to restructure NTT, the world's biggest telecoms company, had been well flagged and it was now up to BT, MCI and their proposed combined company, dubbed Concert Plc, to forge a deal.
But the difficulty was how to establish partial ownership of an asset in Japan without significant earnings dilution.
"If BT can form a partnership with this new holding company structured NTT -- with access to the international market -- then that's game, set and match," said John Tysoe, telecoms analyst at brokers Societe Generale Strauss Turnbull.
"My feeling is that Concert will probably move heaven and earth try and do a deal with NTT now -- and NTT would probably be crazy to take on anyone else as a partner. Concert has got the product set which everyone wants."
Taking any significant stake in NTT would not only be hugely expensive but dilute earnings. Foreign companies would find themselves paying a lot of money for few earnings simply because the price earnings ratio of NTT is so high, analysts noted.
"There are still foreign ownership restrictions on NTT which will not be lifted until next year," said Andrew Harrington, telecoms analyst at Salomon Brothers.
"But we do know BT wants to establish some form of global alliance with NTT, be it in the form of a marketing agreement, some sort of equity swap or a straightforward equity stake.
"I dont think BT knows what it is going to do yet."
If the creation of Concert wins regulatory approval next year, it will be one of the largest end-to-end telecoms services providers for multi-national companies as the worldwide telecoms market is rapidly being liberalised.
Rivals include French and newly-floated German telecoms groups France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom, that have linked up with U.S. long-distance carrier Sprint to form Global One -- and U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T, which has set up World Partners with 16 companies.
NTT, which currently is a purely domestic operator with a stranglehold on the domestic Japanese market, has a market capitalisation that at around $120 billion, eclipses all others.
Japan's Posts ministry said earlier today that the NTT restructuring may not be put into place until 1999-2000.
The Toronto stock market ended weaker on Friday, but recovered most of its losses after sinking nearly three percent on comments by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan.
The Toronto Stock Exchange's key 300 Composite Index fell 31.69 points to close 5810.06 after experiencing its worst intra-day decline in nine years.
The key index sank 171 points, the most severe fall since a 176.5-point decline on October 22, 1987.
Trading was moderate with 80.8 million shares changing hands worth C$1.4 billion (US$1.03 billion).
"For a volatile market that has been looking for a reason, any reason, to correct, last night's comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan were just the ticket," RBC Dominion Securities analyst Dunnery Best said in a report.
In a speech Thursday night, Greenspan warned that "irrational exuberance" was infecting financial markets, sparking heavy selling in equities markets worldwide.
By the end of Friday's session, Toronto recovered most of its losses, while the Dow Jones average lost 55.16 points.
Analysts said mutual fund institutions were bargain hunting on the TSE today.
"Canadian institutions came in late in the day and established themselves for the RRSP (Registered Retirement Savings Plan) season," said Jim Doak, investment research director of ScotiaMcleod Inc.
Despite Toronto's steep decline, analysts expect the Canadian market to resume its upward march and outperform Wall Street in 1997.
All of Toronto's 14 sub-indices lost ground except pipelines and industrial products. Declining stocks outnumbered advances 705 to 320, while 259 traded flat.
Among hot stocks, Bre-X Minerals Ltd. rose C$0.15 to C$20.15 in heavy trading.
Barrick Gold Corp. is in the midst of finalizing a deal with Bre-X over ownership of Bre-X's massive gold deposit in Busang, Indonesia.
Barrick closed down C$0.05 at C$40.20.
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Canada's second largest bank, fell C$0.85 to C$56.15 on 1.8 million shares.
Fuelled by record earnings and low interest rates, bank stocks have soared to new heights since September.
Despite the Toronto Stock Exchange's steep decline this week, analysts expect Canada's biggest equity market to resume its upward march and continue outperforming Wall Street in the New Year.
Early on Friday, Toronto's key 300 Composite Index posted its largest intraday drop in nine years, losing 171 points or almost three percent to 5670.
It was Toronto's biggest intraday fall since a 176.5 point slide on October 22, 1987, a few days after the Black Monday market crash of October 19, 1987.
The index has slid from a record of 6018 on November 28.
Toronto stocks recovered partly by Friday afternoon, when they were down 40.55 points to 5801.20.
Toronto's losses on Friday were sparked by comments late Thursday by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan that were interpreted as suggesting that U.S. equity markets may be overvalued.
Profit-taking also hit Toronto stocks this week as investors cashed in on recent spectacular gains.
Montreal-based investment adviser Ron Meisels forecast more weakness in the next few weeks, before a return to strength.
"I think Toronto will probably outperform New York in the first quarter of 1997," Meisels said.
Meisels said Toronto stocks traditionally outpace Wall Street in the late stages of a bull market as investors flock to Toronto's natural resource sector.
This year's boom has been fueled by U.S. economic growth and declining interest rates that prompted low returns on bonds and other fixed-income instruments, analysts said.
Toronto's key index has jumped almost 28 percent this year, versus a 23 percent gain by New York's Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Meisels said Toronto should also benefit later this year as Canadians make their annual contributions to tax-sheltered pension funds, many of which include mutual funds.
"There's an enormous amount of mutual fund money being committed to the market," ScotiaMcLeod's director of investment research Jim Doak said.
In the near term, Toronto could extend this week's 4.3 percent decline, some analysts said.
"I think we're looking at at least a (total) 10 percent correction," said MMS International analyst Katherine Beattie.
Anti-tobacco lawsuits brought by Florida and other state governments under anti-racketeering laws are meant to demonize cigarette manufacturers and turn Americans against a legitimate industry, a tobacco-industry lawyer said on Friday.
At a pre-trial hearing of a high-stakes tobacco lawsuit, attorney Irvin Nathan held up a newspaper article quoting Florida state government lawyers and said such publicity was meant solely "to demonize the industry."  
The article, published in the Tampa Tribune of Florida, quoted state lawyers as saying they want to show that cigarette makers had misled Americans for decades about the health risks of smoking and prove the industry was liable for potentially billions of dollars in medical procedures covered by a Florida insurance program.
Nathan spoke on behalf of Philip Morris Cos Inc, one of several big tobacco companies that asked the judge to throw out a Florida claim that they were liable under Florida's Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO).  
He argued the law did not apply to the tobacco companies, which are also being sued in Florida under a separate 1994 law that may leave them liable to penalties of $1.0 billion or more.
In claims under RICO -- a type of law also on the federal books and those of many other U.S. states -- Philip Morris and the other tobacco defendents would be liable to triple damages. RICO laws are usually used to prosecute organized criminals.  
Robert Blakey, a law professor at Notre Dame University, said on behalf of Florida that the RICO claim against the tobacco companies fell easily within the scope of the law. In the 1970s, Blakey was an author of several RICO laws, including the federal legislation.
"This, your honor, is a good RICO case," Blakey said.
Presiding Judge Harold Cohen of the Palm Beach County Circuit Court is not expected to rule for weeks on the tobacco defendents' request that the RICO claims be dismissed.  
Still, in opening remarks before lawyers for both sides presented their arguments, he said he was inclined to allow the Florida state lawyers to go ahead with the RICO-based claims.
A jury trial of the suit is tentatively scheduled for August 1997, the judge said.
Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth said in an interview that Florida's RICO claims, if successful, could open a new battle front against the tobacco industry. Attorney generals from two other states that are pressing similar lawsuits agreed with that view.  
Mississippi Attorney General Mike Moore, who accompanied Butterworth to the hearing along with Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods, said the lawsuits filed by 19 states and several cities concerned more than just monetary damages. The lawsuits were needed to alert people to the dangers of smoking and help curb smoking among teenagers.
"That helps me sell the litigation more than the money," Moore said.
Moore said Florida, Arizona, Mississippi and several other state governments had allied themselves to press their tobacco cases. With several cases coming to trial next year, 1997 could prove crucial in determining whether the tobacco industry is liable for some of the hundreds of billions of dollars in health-care costs arising from smoking-related diseases.
A trial on Moore's suit begins in March in Mississippi, with Florida's set for the summer and a Texas lawsuit expected to go to trial in the fall.
"I think we will know the answer in 1997," Moore said.
-- Miami Newsroom 1-305-374-5013
Russian Finance Minister Alexander Livshits warned financially-troubled Norilsk Nickel on Friday that it must pay overdue taxes, but analysts said the firm would not be liquidated or that its would assets would be frozen.
"Norilsk  really is a big debtor, both to the federal and regional budgets," said Konstantin Chernyshev, equities analyst at Moscow brokerage Rinaco Plus and a Norilsk watcher. "Livshits's words are an attempt to put pressure on the company."
The official Itar-Tass news agency quoted Livshits as telling parliamentary deputies that RAO Norilsky Nikel 0#NKEL.RUO had to pay its tax arrears and that bankruptcy procedures applied to the metals group.
"If it was an unsolicited statement and a bolt out of the blue, then it obviously means something," said Christopher Granville, chief economist at United City Bank in Moscow.
"But if it was a response to a deputy's question that was essentially loaded, then it was the only answer he could have given."
Russian tax and cabinet authorities, under pressure from the International Monetary Fund to boost tax revenues as a condition for receiving payments of a $10 billion, three-year loan to Moscow, have been striking fear into the hearts of some of Russia's most prominent industrial firms by saying they must pay up or face liquidation.
"They could freeze metal, but it's not a long-term solution to the problem and wouldn't put money in the budget," Chernyshev said. "I don't think they would do that."
Entire social infrastructures in the icy Far North where Norilsk is based depend on the company, and Moscow has said it has no finances to resettle hundreds of thousands of people -- an expenditure which could far outstrip Norilsk's debts.
Norilsk officials declined to comment.
Analysts said the government, while anxious about Norilsk's debts, is highly unlikely to bring the nickel, copper, cobalt, platinum and platinum group metals producer to its knees or take measures that could significantly affect output.
But it also wants Norilsk, the world's second-largest nickel producer, to clean up its act.
"The procedure of bankruptcy will be applied," Tass quoted Livshits as telling Duma deputies about Norilsk.
It indirectly quoted him as saying Norilsk should first pay salary arrears, which in the past have led to worker strikes.
"It is unlikely that Norilsk will pay these debts in the near-term -- the company will remain a debtor in the near future," Chernyshev said.
He estimated the company's regional debts at least one trillion roubles and said 30 percent of the giant Krasnoyarsk regional budget was fuelled by Norilsk money.
Norilsk's new majority shareholder, Russian commerical bank Uneximbank, has said it is reorganising metal exports through Interrosimpex in order to boost revenues.
But the changes have yet to improve significantly Norilsk's situation.
"Uneximbank has inherited a mountain and whether or not they climb out and over it remains to be seen," said one metals source.
Norilsk said in September that it total debts, including unpaid salaries to workers, were 13 trillion roubles. The company said last month that it had worked out a tax payment schedule with authorities, after regional tax officials threatened to seize some nickel and copper assets.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
A multinational group trying to build a $1.5 billion oil pipeline linking Kazakhstan and Russia held frantic, last-minute talks on Friday to try to resolve how much involvent Russia's pipeline firm will have in the deal.
The Caspian Pipeline Consortium, or CPC, which groups eight international oil companies and the states of Russia, Kazakhstan and Oman, hoped to sign off on a new restructuring deal on Friday afternoon after talks.
But Western oil executives and Russian energy officials, speaking hours before they hoped to sign, said it was far from clear what would happen because of a last-minute push by Russia's Transneft oil pipeline monopoly to take potentially the largest equity stake in the scheme.
"Are we going to sign? Well, I hope so, but I cannot say for sure," said a Western executive representing a CPC shareholder. "We're burning the midnight oil to work out the issues."
State-run Transneft's bid to be not just the operator but also a shareholder and strategic decision-maker in the group has made the Western shareholders very uneasy.
"Transneft could end up being the equity holder representing the Russian government," said one senior CPC source.
A breakthrough deal in April 1996 brought on board new equity holders but has yet to produce a share transfer. The companies involved are Chevron, which will own 15 percent of CPC, Russia's LUKoil with 12.5 percent, Mobil and Russia's Rosneft, 7.5 percent each, British Gas Plc and Italy's Agip SpA, two percent each, and Oryx Energy Company and Kazakhstan's Munaigaz 1.75 percent each.
The remaining 50 percent stake would be divided between Russia, 24 percent, Kazakhstan, 19 percent, and Oman, through the Oman Oil Company with seven percent. Transneft, with backing from Moscow, wants the other participants to agree to it taking the Russian government's 24 percent stake.
The proposed 1,580 km (990 mile) pipeline to link Kazakhstan's Tengiz oil field and Russia's Black Sea oil export outlet Novorossiisk would give Chevron and Mobil, partners in Tengiz, a much-needed dedicated export route for output that will peak at around 700,000 barrels per day (bpd) by 2010.
But if Transneft takes all or part of Russia's nearly one-quarter stake, it could use its leverage to raise transit tariffs or insist that some Russian oil flow through the link, which would cut into the economics of Chevron's and Mobil's $20 billion TengizChevroil (TCO) project and other Kazakh oil deals.
"The concern is Transneft's role in the management of the project. Conflict of interest is something very unpalatable to the Western side," a CPC source said.
Transneft spokesman Ravil Polyanin said the monopoly wanted the whole 24 percent stake and to be the operator of the pipeline, but that it might settle for a smaller equity share.
"Various states have used Russia's pipeline system in the past without contributions to Transneft," he said.
CPC executives are anxious to sign a deal, since the project is already years behind schedule and has stymied development of Caspian oil fields that require export routes before they can be economically tapped.
"There is an awful lot of pressure to sign," said one source.
But four senior Western CPC shareholders, including Mobil Oil Kazakstan Inc president Carl Burnett, told Reuters last month that if a deal was signed on Friday, it would probably not be for the crucial share transfer, the key step to getting the project off the ground.
The Caspian pipeline, to be built in phases across southern Russia but bypassing war-torn Chechnya, could eventually carry 1.4 million barrels per day, but other Kazakh projects will take up the extra capacity and leave little room for Russian oil.
Asia gave a cautious welcome on Friday to U.S. President Bill Clinton's appointments for the key posts of secretaries of state and defence, mixing public praise with some private misgivings.
U.N. Ambassador Madeleine Albright, tapped to become the first woman secretary of state, and Senator William Cohen, who would take up the defence post, were seen as able appointees, though both were perceived as short on Asian expertise.
Analysts said Asian nations that had been targets of U.S. pressure on human rights might also have cause for new concerns, particularly with the outspoken Albright in the top foreign policy job.
Clinton named his United Nations envoy and the Republican senator from Maine on Thursday as his choices for the Cabinet posts to succeed Warren Christopher and William Perry. Senate confirmation for both nominees was widely expected.
Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said he did not foresee any impact on U.S.-Japan relations.
"I do not expect any changes in U.S.-Japan ties and I hope we can work together to deepen our relations," he told reporters.
But government sources said both appointees were unfamilar with Japan and their counterparts in Tokyo would soon begin the task of getting acquainted with them.
China, which has seen an easing of its strains with the United States of late, said it welcomed Albright's appointment and looked forward to a continuation of improving ties.
"We congratulate Ms Albright on her nomination as secretary of state," a foreign ministry spokesman said.
"We hope that while she is secretary of state, China and the United States ... will grasp the opportunities and make mutual efforts to improve and develop Sino-U.S. ties."
Sino-U.S. relations had been buffeted over the past two years by disputes over Taiwan, arms proliferation, trade and human rights. Relations have improved markedly in recent months, most notably with a meeting between Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin in the Philippines last month.
But Chinese specialists in U.S. policy issues said a lack of experience in Asian affairs would prove a handicap for the two new Cabinet members, though they expected this to be overcome.
They said that human rights issues, still a source of friction, had been put aside for the time being, and were unlikely to upset bilateral ties.
Burma could be one Asian state to have misgivings about the new post for Albright, particularly in the sphere of human rights, analysts said.
There was no official comment from the Burmese government but a Western diplomat in Rangoon said Albright's appointment would be viewed negatively as her past statements on human rights and women's issues have not been welcome.
The United States has also been critical on occasion of Indonesia's human rights record though Jakarta's reaction to Albright's appointment was upbeat. Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas described her as an able and experienced diplomat.
South Korea saw the new U.S. Cabinet appointees as likely to maintain pressure on rival North Korea as both are wary of the potential threat posed by Pyongyang.
"The U.S. policy of trying to guide North Korea to a soft landing and keeping the freeze on Pyongyang's nuclear programme will continue," a government official said.
"The new team is also likely to promote dialogue between South and North Korea," he added.
North Korea invaded the South in 1950 and the two sides remain technically at war. Hostilities ended in 1953 with an armistice, not a peace treaty.
Albright won an enthusiastic response from some quarters, such as in the Philippines where she was called an inspiration to women worldwide.
"I am glad that the United States showed the way," said Katrina Legarda, one of the country's prominent women lawyers.
"This development is so rare," she said.
A Florida judge said Friday that he was inclined to let stand civil claims filed under state anti-racketeering laws against the tobacco industry.
Speaking from the bench at the start of a preliminary hearing, Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Harold Cohen said he was inclined to let stand claims filed by the state using Florida's Racketeer Influenced and Corrupts Organisations Act, which could mean more losses for cigarette makers.
"It would seem that the state can maintain the RICO actions," Cohen said.
The claims under state RICO laws were added last month to the state's existing lawsuit that seeks at least $1 billion compensation for treating smokers' illnesses.
The judge said he would not make up his mind until the end of oral arguments on Friday.
He gave no timetable for making public his decision on a request by Philip Morris Cos. and other cigarette makers that the claims made by the state under RICO laws be thrown out.
Florida State Attorney General Bob Butterworth said before the hearing that a victory against tobacco companies using the RICO law would allow the court to triple the more than $1 billion dollars in damages claimed by the state.
He also said a victory in Florida using its RICO law would widen the war against the tobbaco industry by possibly allowing other states to sue under their own RICO laws.
Lawyer Irving Nathan, representing the tobacco industry, said that lawsuits brought by state governments under anti-racketeering laws were meant to demonise cigarette manufacturers and turn Americans against a legitimate industry.
Nathan argued that the RICO laws did not apply to the tobacco companies that are also being sued in Florida.
The state of Florida in 1995 filed a lawsuit against the tobacco industry, seeking $1 billion or more for health care costs paid for poor people afflicted with smoking-related ailments.
Last month the state amended the suit using the RICO law and claiming that the tobacco companies had conspired with one another to confuse Americans about the dangers of smoking.
Cohen is not expected to rule for weeks on the tobacco defendents' request that the RICO claims be dismissed but he said in opening remarks that he was inclined to allow the Florida state lawyers to go ahead with the RICO-based claims.
A jury trial of the suit is tentatively scheduled for August 1997, the judge said.
Mississippi Attorney General Mike Moore, who accompanied Butterworth to the hearing along with Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods, said the lawsuits filed by 19 states and several cities were about much more than mere money. The lawsuits were needed to alert people to the dangers of smoking and help curb smoking among teenagers.
"That helps me sell the litigation more than the money," Moore said.
Computers appear to have taken a back seat this holiday season to gifts of other sorts as several computer retailers this week reported a sluggish start to the big holiday season.
Among major computer retailers, November sales showed ongoing weakness and heavy promotions, and analysts said this combination may bode poorly for sales of personal computers to consumers this quarter.
"Bad would be a better word than sluggish," said Stephen Baker, an analyst at Framingham, Mass.-based International Data Corp. "Promotional (discounting) is a code word for lower profits."
Retailers noted, however, that calendar quirks made some year-to-year comparisons look negative because Thanksgiving, the traditional start to the holiday shopping season, was later this year.
Circuit City Stores Inc., the largest retailer of brand-name consumer electronics and a leading retailer of personal computers, said that industry sales remained weak.
The Richmond, Va.-based company reported an 8 percent increase over November 1995 sales, but at stores open at least a year sales fell 8 percent compared with a year earlier.
"Industry sales trends remained weak and promotional activity intensified," said Richard Sharp, Circuit City's chairman and CEO, in a statement.
Best Buy Co. Inc., based in Minneapolis, said that there were more discounts in the PC category in November.
"Third quarter sales were well below earlier expectations," said Allen Lenzmeier, Best Buy chief financial officer. Third quarter sales were up 4 percent.
But for the four-week period ending November, Best Buy's sales in stores open at least one year fell 8 percent, compared with an increase of 15 percent last November.
"The numbers in general in computer retailing were pretty weak," said Tom Courtney, a Montgomery Securities analyst. He estimates that in the computer category at Circuit City, for example, November sales fell 20 percent to 25 percent.
"We think that what's happening is there is a big shift to the direct channel," Courtney said, referring to companies such as Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway 2000 Inc. that sell PCs through phone and mail order.
Analysts also cited increased interest in apparel this holiday season, following years of heavy buying of all sorts of home electronics -- from computers to satellite dishes to audio and video products.
"This is the first Christmas in a few years when there hasn't been a really compelling new reason to buy a PC," said Nick Donatiello, president of Odyssey LP, a market research firm in San Francisco. "Last Christmas and the year before you had CD-ROMs, fast modems, the Internet and new Pentium chips."
"The market of first-time buyers seems to be shrinking," said Baker.
"You've already gotten a PC into the homes that can afford a decent quality PC.  The rest of the households say it's either too much or what am I going to do with it," Baker said.
Tandy Corp. was lukewarm about the start of the season. "Traffic in our stores was very good the first few days after Thanksgiving," Chief Executive John Roach said in a statement.
Tandy's November RadioShack sales for stores open at least one year were down 5 percent; Computer City was up 3 percent and Incredible Universe superstore sales were flat.
Some analysts said they were not worried by the sluggish retail sales, because they were looking to corporate sales for the bigger profits this quarter. The consumer sector, fraught with price cuts, is still barely profitable for some companies.
Even before Thanksgiving, industry leader Compaq Computer Corp. cut prices on its Presario home PCs by as much as 21 percent. Analysts also said Sony cut prices on new PCs.
"I don't think it means a lot," said Andrew Neff, a Bear Stearns analyst, of the sluggish start to the holiday season. "People are in no hurry to buy."
Neff said this PC makers expect corporate sales to be the driver of PC growth, not consumer sales. Dataquest Inc. has predicted that the PC market will grow at about 19.7 percent worldwide in 1996, still strong but behind the record growth of 24.7 percent growth in 1995.
"I just view anything that happens in retail as icing on the cake," Neff said.
First Chicago NBD Corp, while still open to acquisitions to expand its banking network, expects more retail branches to be cut over time as customers bank electronically or at supermarkets.
"As customers use more and more of those (channels), we've got to take away more of the brick and mortar" branches, Verne Istock, chief executive, said in an interview Thursday.
But don't expect First Chicago to make drastic cuts like the nearly 280 branches that Ohio-based KeyCorp said last month it would close or sell.  
"I don't think that's the approach we want," Istock said. "I think that's pretty dramatic. I think you're better off to do it on an orderly basis from a customer satisfaction standpoint as well as an employee basis."
First Chicago has closed about 25 branches since the merger with Detroit-based NBD Bancorp a year ago that created what is now the ninth largest bank holding company in the United States, with $106.7 billion in assets.
But at the same time, First Chicago could be looking to expand its retail customer base through acquisitions of other banks in the greater Midwest.  
"I have publicly said on more occasions than once that this organization does have an interest in expanding through acquisitions where it makes sense for shareholders," Istock said.
This means any acquisition First Chicago does could only dilute earnings for a short time, if at all, he added.
But Istock also said First Chicago has not had talks with Milwaukee based Firstar Corp, which has been mentioned as a possible First Chicago target for at least a year.
"We've had no discussions," he said of Firstar. He would not comment on other possible acquisition targets.  
Istock also reiterated that an acquisition could be made outside of traditional banking as regulatory lines between banking other financial businesses are erased.
Insurance, investment banking and securities banking are all areas that could be targets of traditional banks, he said.
"We're willing to consider any alternative that we think makes sense for our shareholders first of all and also for enhancing our customer relationships," Istock said.
Analysts see First Chicago as having excess capital on its books, which weighs on a bank's performance. EVEREN Securities analyst Thomas Maier said the bank could have more than $2 billion in excess capital, while others estimate a lower amount.
An aggressive 40-million-share stock repurchase plan has helped allay analysts' and investors' concerns about the excess capital. But making a purchase could also put capital to work.
"It's a way of in fact buying your stock back without having to go out in the market to do it," Maier said.
First Chicago shares were up 5/8 at 55-1/2 Friday.
((--Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
First Chicago NBD Corp chief executive Verne Istock expects to see more job cuts at the corporate banking unit as the bank tries to turn around a business that has far underperformed the rest of the company.
"I suspect as part of our restructuring of the corporate bank there'll probably be reduced head count in the corporate bank, and there will be reduced capital allocated to the corporate bank," Istock said in an interview.
He would not say how many jobs would be cut.  
The corporate banking unit posted a dismal return on equity of eight percent in the first nine months of the year, compared with nine percent a year ago, with results this year weighed down by a $12 million trading loss. Overall, the bank reported return on equity of 16.9 percent in the first nine months of 1996.
Now the corporate and institutional banking unit is being reshaped, paring back business lines to focus on those central to customer relationships.  
"I firmly believe that something that's chugging along at eight or nine percent can in fact be improved and we fully expect to get it up to that 15 percent or better return" on equity, Istock said.
Stockholders and analysts appear to accept Istock's argument that the corporate bank's results can only go up.
"You can criticize them, but frankly, it can only improve," said Joseph Duwan, analyst at Keefe Bruette &amp; Woods. "I think they're taking a hard look at the businesses they're in in corproate banking."  
Istock stressed that increased revenue will come from the corporate bank by focusing on areas that will grow and cutting unprofitable areas.
Already this year, the bank has said it will exit the institutional custody and master trust businesses, two paperwork-intensive lines that would have required major investment to gain significant market share.
Istock also said the bank was trimming its trading operations, again focusing on instruments customers need.  
"I don't think we will have to have the entire (trading) product line or be on the edge of the envelope," Istock said. But he added that the types of trading vehicles customers need change.
Istock said he was aware of the corporate bank's troubled performance before First Chicago Corp and NBD Bancorp merged a year ago, forming what is now the ninth largest bank holding company in the United States with assets of $106.7 billion.
Meanwhile, First Chicago's stock hit a post merger high last week, before sliding in a sell off of most bank stocks this week. An aggressive 40 million share stock repurchase plan announced in October has helped boost the stock.
But another area of concern to analysts is credit card chargeoffs, which jumped earlier this year.
Istock said while chargeoffs will likely rise more as the economy slows, the business will continue to be a strong earner for First Chicago.
"It's a business we know, we understand and we plan to stay in," Istock said. He added that the bank is beginning to use its 13-million-customer credit card database to sell other products to credit card holders.
First Chicago shares were up 1/8 at 55 Friday.
((--Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
Former Barings executive Ron Baker plans to bring a counter-claim in a lawsuit against him by Dutch bank ING Barings for repayment of a loan he is alleged to have received, his lawyer told Reuters on Friday.
"He (Baker) plans to bring in his own counter-claim into those proceedings and they will be heard together unless some sort of arrangement is reached beforehand," Lindsay Hill, a partner at London law firm Fox Williams said.
ING Barings last month confirmed it was suing Baker for 113,000 pounds ($185,800), representing a 100,000 pound loan allegedly given to Baker when he was at Barings, plus interest.
British merchant bank Barings collapsed in February 1995 amid losses of around $1.4 billion run up by the unauthorised derivatives trades of Singapore-based trader Nick Leeson. It was rescued by ING which formed ING Barings as its investment banking arm.
Leeson is currently serving a six-and-a-half year jail sentence in Singapore for his part in the bank's downfall.
But the saga looks set to run on for some time, with writs filed by administrators of the bank against the former auditors and subsequent third party proceedings being issued against former bosses, including Baker.
Hill said Baker would contest the ING Barings case against him and his counter-claim would be for an unpaid bonus.
"He believes that the monies that he was promised by way of bonus remain due and are outstanding so yes, they will come into the equation in terms of resolving the dispute with ING Barings," Hill said.
Baker would not be the first to attempt to force ING Barings to pay a bonus which had apparently been promised before the collapse of Barings itself and ING's takeover.
But Hill said the decision by a London industrial tribunal on Thursday to reject a claim by another former Barings executive for an allegedly unpaid bonus had no implications for Baker's case.
"It's a different case, it's for different sums of money and the circumstances are not the same," Hill said.
Mary Walz, who was global head of equity financial products at Barings Investment Bank, had her 500,000 pound claim, which she said she was told was "set in stone" by her former Barings bosses, thrown out by the tribunal.
Hill declined to say how much Baker's counter-claim would be for but said the sum was "substantial".
British pub to hotels group Greenalls Plc should report a near 20 percent rise in its full year profits on Thursday as its acquisition of Boddington Group feeds through into its managed pub estate, analysts said.
Analysts' forecasts for pretax profits in the year to September 27 range from 145 to 150 million stg excluding an exceptional 30 million stg for the cost of reorganising Boddington's, up from 100.5 million last time. Dividend forecasts are centred on a total payout of 15.4p.  
The acquisition of Boddington for 527 million stg in November 1995 added 458 pubs to the group's portfolio and made Greenalls the largest independent retail pub chain with 2,370 outlets. Some 270 former Boddington's managed pubs were absorbed into Greenalls Inns.
At the time of the acquisition Greenalls identified 18 million stg of cost savings from closing Boddington's offices and wholesale depots.
However, confusion remains among analysts about how former Boddington assets have been absorbed.  
Trading profits from its managed pubs are anticipated to be up some 45 percent at 76 million stg, driven by the inclusion of the Boddington estate for the first full year.
Profits from its hotel and restaurants division should grow about 10 percent to 58 million. The company announced the long-awaited sale of its six hotels in the United States on Friday for 14 million stg in cash with a loss on the disposal of 1.75 million.
"It's definitely a welcome sight to see. Those hotels have rarely been in profit over the last ten years," said one analyst who declined to be named.  
The division also includes De Vere Hotels, Village Leisure -- acquired from Boddington -- and the branded Premier House pub restaurants.
Earnings from the group's tenanted pubs and wholesaling are likely to be up about 25 percent at 50 million. At the end of August, Inn Partnership comprised 1,194 tenanted houses including 145 former Boddington tenanted pubs.
This division also includes 460 off-licenses and a distillery.
Analysts envisage an interest charge of about 38 million.  
Investors and analysts are keen to hear how the brands acquired from Boddington's are fitting in.
"There are a number of retail brands in this vastly enlarged group and it would be interesting to see which ones it considers to be really important for the future, " said Colin Humphreys, analyst at Panmure Gordon.
Greenalls shares were off 6p at 596 on Friday at 1100 GMT, well off their 637p year high. The company improved operating margin to 17.6 percent in 1995 from 16.75 percent a year earlier.  
Its return on equity rose to 13.15 percent from 10.39 over the same period, compared with 9.84 percent for Whitbread.
A Reuter poll of 24 brokers produced a consensus estimate EPS for the full year ending September 27, 1996 of 38.5 rising to 42.5 in 1997.
-- London Newsroom +44 71 542 6437
Europe's aircraft industry flew closer to strengthening its industrial base with announcements on Friday that a 100-seater jet to be built with China will form part of the Airbus family and Italy's Alenia will enter new Airbus programmes.
The news follows statements earlier this week from archrival Boeing and the smaller McDonnell Douglas that the two U.S. firms are cooperating on future wide-body jets, particularly two "stretched" versions of the Boeing 747 jumbo.
"A specific agreement has been reached on the new 100 seat jet family in which all the European partners involved have agreed that it will be part of the Airbus product range," a statement from British Aerospace Plc (BAe) said.
BAe is a partner in the European Airbus Industrie consortium, as well as the separate AIA joint venture which is partnering China to build the Asian Express 100 passenger plane.
Airbus, together with Alenia, a unit of the Finmeccanica holding company, will set up a new company to lead the European participation with China and Singapore, the joint statement said.
Singapore's Singapore Technologies Aerospace is also a partner in the project.
"This completes the bottom end of the Airbus range with a brand new offering and consolidates Airbus' position in the growing Asian market," an Airbus spokesman said.
The Airbus partners are also bringing Alenia closer to the consortium by involving it in derivatives of current products, such as the A340-600, a stretched version of the four-engine, long-range A340, as well as a likely role in the A3XX large aircraft under study.
"Alenia will probably be a risk-sharing partner in the A3XX," the spokesman added. "It means a broadening in equity and funds for both programmes."
Airbus has marked out the A340-600 as its top priority as it needs to increase capacity to rival the Boeing 777 twinjet and older 747 models. It also wants to be able to launch the A3XX, expected to cost $8 billion, by 1998 for service in 2003.
But while Alenia is moving in at the programme level, it is not entering the consortium as an equity partner. Alenia is already present in a special Airbus subsidiary, Airbus Military Company, set up to manage the Future Large Aircraft (FLA), a tactical transporter planned for eight European forces.
The other Airbus partners are French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
The 100-seater plane for China will share common features with the Airbus A320 family, which includes the A321 and A319, seating between 124 and 186 passengers. It will bring Airbus into a new segment fought over by Boeing and McDonnell Douglas.
News that McDonnell Douglas will act as a subcontractor for Boeing, announced on December 3, "didn't take us by surprise," said the Airbus spokesman. "It doesn't alter our agenda."
The aerospace industry had been expecting some of realignment by McDonnell Douglas after it announced at the end of October it was dropping studies of its MDXX wide-body plane. It also lost its place for a vital U.S. competition for the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) last month.
Building materials group James Hardie Industries Ltd reported on Friday a first half net profit in line with expectations, but comments on the second half by the group is likely to see full year earnings forecasts trimmed.
James Hardie, 27.23 owned by New Zealand's Brierley Investments Ltd, reported a 12.1 percent fall in net profit before abnormals to A$27.6 million for the six months ended September 30, 1996, in line with analysts' forecasts.
But managing director Keith Barton said he expected the second half result to be significantly down on the first half.  
Analysts at the company's results briefing said Barton's comments on the second half meant that estimates for pre-abnormal net profit for the 1996/97 year would be trimmed back to around A$50 million from A$53-A$54 million.
They welcomed the company's statement that outlook for its U.S. businesses were very positive for the 1996/97 second half and into 1997/98.
"In contrast, the outlook for Australian operations remains bleak in the short term," it said.  
"In view of the immediate prospects, the company maintains its previously stated position that profit for the full year will reflect a marked deterioration on last year's results," the company said.
"Growth prospects for the following year remain very positive," James Hardie said.
Keith Barton said the first half downturn reflected a fall in earnings from Australian building products due to lower housing starts.  
"Reduced activity in the housing sector had an adverse impact on both volumes and margins for the Australian building boards, windows and bathroom products businesses," he said.
Continued strong performances from the fibre cement and gypsum businesses in the United States as well as solid performances from New Zealand had however helped the result.
"U.S. fibre cement production sold out during the six months to September and we continue to ship significant volumes of product from Australian and New Zealand plants to satisfy demand," Barton said.  
Hardie had just increased U.S. fibre cement production capacity by more than 40 percent to 480 million square feet through the commissioning of a third line at Plant City in Florida.
However analysts said the market would not be worrying too much about 1996/97 results, which are widely expected to be down on the A$58.4 million pre-abnormal net profit reported in the year to March 31, 1996.
Barton said he expected a rebound in profit in the year to March 31, 1998, following an expected fall in profit in the 1996/97 year.  
"I expect it to be higher, but it is too early to say if it will be significantly higher," Barton later told reporters.
Analysts forecast James Hardie to have pre-abnormal net profit earnings of about A$90 million in 1997/98.
Barton also revealed that the Sydney-based group was conducting a study of the European fibre cement market, but had made no decison to enter any European countries yet.
"We are going to have a look, it is a large market," Barton said. "It is early days, we are just having a look to see if we can understand the market."  
Sales for the first half rose 2.7 percent to A$913.9 million, while the dividend remained unchanged at 6.5 cents per share.
At 1.10 p.m. (0210 GMT), James Hardie shares were six cents lower at A$3.40 in a weaker Australian sharemarket that has been hit by a slump in the local bond market.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Britain and China have agreed to work on a new anti-espionage law in Hong Kong, to take effect after the colony is handed back to Beijing next year, a Chinese official said on Friday after three days of negotiations.
Chinese Ambassador Zhao Jihua, China's team leader in the Sino-British Joint Liaison Group (JLG) talks, said the countries agreed that Britain's official secrets act would be localised.
"The official secrets act is a British law...which was extended to Hong Kong. Hong Kong has not got its own official secrets act so we are talking about the localisation of the act in Hong Kong," Zhao told a news conference.
But Beijing also warned Britain not to rock the boat by making any major legal changes on its own before the territory of 6.3 million people reverts to China next July 1.
Speaking amid heightened anxiety over the handover of Hong Kong to Chinese rule, Zhao also tried to reassure local people they would continue to have complete freedom of movement after 1997.
"For Hong Kong residents, they can rest assured that the freedom of entry and exit into and out of Hong Kong will continue to be guaranteed," Zhao said.
But Zhao said Chinese negotiators had protested to Britain about a draft anti-subversion bill unveiled by the colonial administration last week, a law that sets legal markers against China-style jailings of dissidents.
China reacted angrily to the move when it was announced. Britain has accused China of blocking efforts to draft laws on subversion, sedition and treason for the handover.
Zhao said Britain had violated the 1984 Joint Declaration, the Sino-British handover treaty, and Hong Kong's future constitution, the Basic Law.
"During the plenary session, the Chinese side pointed out to the British side that the British action is in fact unilateral change in the law previously enforced in Hong Kong without consultation and consensus with China.
"This is a breach of the Joint Declaration. This act is attempting to legislate on behalf of the future Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China. In essense this is an act which is in contravention of the Basic Law.
"Such an act will never be acceptable to the Chinese side and the British side has to bear full responsibility for all the consequences," Zhao said.
He said Beijing hoped there would be no more "disturbances" because it ran against the aim of having a smooth transition.
"We certainly hope it won't affect our relations. But I can't deny that it will definitely affect future discussions."
China's financial markets have made significant steps towards maturity in 1996, with Beijing more willing than ever to allow them to gradually take on the mantle of economic control, analysts said on Friday.
But the Chinese securities, futures and money markets, less than six years old and still suffering the volatility of youth, have a long way to go to reach the level of standardisation and stability found in many other Asian countries, they said.
"In the past the central government always used the word 'experimental' when referring to the markets, but this year they instead started saying they are 'in the initial stages of development'," said a Chinese brokerage analyst.
"This shows that it is more determined than ever before to let the markets survive and develop," he said.
Beijing gave its official blessing to the stock markets in April, and since then, the exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen have expanded faster than ever before, adding a total of 178 companies between them so far this year.
Total market capitalisation of the two markets is now 1,271 billion yuan ($153 billion) compared with 350 billion yuan at the start of the year.
The treasury bill market also boomed in 1996 with a record issue of 195.2 billion yuan worth of debt.
An interbank market for local currency, set up in January, has become an indispensible mechanism for banks to swap short-term funds, and has started the process of making interest rates responsive to market forces.
The developments all take China significantly further along the road from the state-planned past towards the market-influenced future.
Analysts said that while the Beijing leadership remains highly cautious about relaxing its controls over the main economic levers, it understands that it must do so eventually.
"The key motive behind the new approach is to gradually relieve the central government of the heavy burden of (the) money-losing state sector," said one economist.
"Beijing has urged state enterprises to resort more to market means to develop themselves instead of relying on loans from the state banks."
But this year, the authorities have also made it very plain that they will not allow rampant irregularities in the markets.
China's futures exchanges, which have largely operated as speculative casinos for years, have been firmly brought to heel over the past year.
The "hot money" which until early this year used to shift at lightning speed from Beijing green beans to Hainan plywood and on to Tianjin red beans has been squeezed out of the futures exchanges and shifted into the share markets, analysts said.
In the past month, branches of virtually all of China's top banks, securities houses and financial institutions have also been publicly accused of running illegal securities scams of one kind or another, with fines and warnings liberally dispensed.
"Serious efforts have been made to standardise the market," said a treasury bond trader. "No one, even the influential banks and key securities houses, are exempt from punishment if they breach the rules."
Analysts said the main shortcoming at the moment is the legal framework for the markets, which consists of a series of overlapping and often contradictory regulations.
The overall Securities Law and Futures Law, which will provide the basis for the future development of the markets, has been trapped in Beijing's bureaucracy for more than three years now with no sign of emerging soon, they said. ($1= 8.3 yuan)
China's parliament, eager to shed its rubber stamp image, has vowed to crack down on lawless officials by intensifying supervision of the government's executive and judicial branches.
Tian Jiyun, vice-chairman of the National People's Congress, had conceded that the problem of officials disregarding the law was very serious in some departments, major newspapers said on Friday.
"Some officials are not strict when implementing the law and do not investigate legal violations," Tian told the opening of a nine-day seminar in the booming southern city of Shenzhen on Thursday.
"These phenomena are very serious in some regions and departments," said Tian, a member of the ruling Communist Party's 19-member Politburo.
Official media frequently carry reports of abuse of power by local officials, who run their areas of jurisdiction as virtual fiefdoms. The word of an official is often taken as law.
"Some officials go as far as to replace the law with their word," Tian said. "There are laws but some officials do not do things according to the law.
"Some use power to suppress the law, those enforcing the law break the law and some take the law into their own hands."
Some Chinese analysts saw Tian's remarks as an attempt to increase the say of parliament in Chinese politics.
Tian and his mentor, Qiao Shi, chairman of the National People's Congress, who sits on the party's omnipotent seven-member Standing Committee, have moved in recent years to boost the status of parliament.
Tian urged lawmaking bodies at all levels to step up supervision of the executive and judicial branches.
"Supervision is a very weak link of the work of the People's Congress," Tian said.
He urged all lawmakers to conscientiously supervise trials and the work of the government, prosecutors and police.
Last month, a court took 10 minutes to reject the appeal of dissident and former student leader Wang Dan and uphold an 11-year jail term for conspiring to subvert the government.
Another dissident, Chen Longde, attempted suicide in August by jumping from a third-floor window because he could no longer stand beating by guards at a labour camp, his family has said.
The labour camp denies any wrongdoing.
Chen, who broke his right leg and smashed three teeth, has been discharged from hospital and sent back to the labour camp, where he is serving three years of re-education through labour for sending a petition to parliament demanding the release of all political prisoners.
Re-education through labour is a form of administrative punishment that can be imposed by authorities without recourse to prosecutors or the courts.
Western human rights activists say the punishment is increasingly favoured by the authorities as a way of removing dissidents from circulation without the complications and publicity of a trial.
French radio group NRJ SA is aiming to break into the UK market by winning the fierce battle for a key London FM licence currently up for grabs.
NRJ, a group which has some 500 stations spread across six European nations, has focused its attention on the capital's youth, who it says are poorly served by existing stations.
"Mainstream music for young people does not exist in London. You have too many stations for adults," Marc Pallain, NRJ's head of development, said in an interview. "You have an extraordinary music scene and such a poor radio landscape," he added.  
The Radio Authority, the body which oversees UK commercial radio, is expected to announce the winner of the licence in mid-January. Its choice will be based on criteria such as programme plans and financial viability of the applicants.
The frequency was vacated by easy-listening station Melody Radio, which relocated after complaining of interference in the south-west London area. However, the winner should be able to reach a potential audience of almost six million adults.  
Twenty-five groups have put in bids, including stations aimed at gay men and lesbians, children, London's Irish community and the over-50s. The front-runners are believed to include Capital Radio, Atlantic, XFM and The Edge.
Capital Radio, which already has an FM licence and is the market leader in London commercial radio, wants to transfer its "Capital Gold" oldies station from its AM frequency.
Atlantic, backed by the UK radio arm of Luxembourg broadcaster CLT, The Edge and XFM are all music-based and aiming at a 15-34 year-old audience.  
British actor Michael Caine is chairman of The Edge and his consortium also includes Radio One DJ and Channel 4 presenter Chris Evans. talent. Its co-founder is Chris Parry, manager of British band The Cure.
NRJ's "Energy" station plans to offer a blend of rock, rap and dance music which programme director Christophe Sabot says will be aimed primarily at the under-25s.
NRJ believes its network of stations across markets such as France, Germany and Scandinavia would allow it to give new British bands a European-wide platform.
Chairman Jean-Paul Baudecroux said that a London licence would appeal to many of the company's advertisers in mainland Europe. He said that the station could help to speed the development of radio advertising in the UK by giving companies greater access to young consumers.
Pallain said that NRJ, a company with a market value of some three billion francs, would aim to expand into other British cities if it secured a berth in the capital. He said that NRJ was already in talks with potential partners.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8793
Russian and foreign oil companies signed a $2 billion deal on Friday to build a pipeline bringing oil from energy-rich Kazakhstan to Western markets, but frantic last-minute negotiations left questions unresolved.
In a delayed signing ceremony that saw Russia's leading oil officials huddling for secret consultations, the Caspian Pipeline Consortium inked documents splitting itself into two for tax reasons.
Russia said its oil pipeline monopoly Transneft might still take a stake. The role of Transneft has been a contentious issue among CPC members and a key negotiating point.
But the signing raised questions over how much closer CPC is to resolving differences and getting its pipeline project off the ground.
"We are extremely satisfied with the commercial structure that has been accomplished and we believe it offers a realistic approach to such an important project," said Chevron senior Vice-President Jeet Bindra.
"We are anxious now to move it to the next stage and hope that a share acquisition will be accomplished by February 1997 and that construction will begin next year."
A raft of officials, including LUKoil President Vagit Alekperov, Kazakh Oil and Gas Minister Nurlan Balgimbayev, former Fuel and Energy Minister Yuri Shafranik, Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister Anatoly Shatalov, attended the signing.
Chevron spokesman Edward Chow said the two entities -- CPC Russia and CPC Kazakhstan -- would have an identical management structure.
But Russian Deputy Prime Minister Valery Serov said it had not yet been decided whether Transneft would acquire the Russian government's 24 percent stake in the consortium.
Chevron will own 15 percent in the CPC, Russia's LUKoil 12.5 percent, Mobil and Russia's Rosneft 7.5 percent each, British Gas Plc and Italy's Agip SpA two percent each, and Oryx Energy Company and Kazakhstan's Munaigaz 1.75 percent each.
The remaining 50 percent is divided between Russia (24 percent), Kazakhstan (19 percent) and Oman (seven percent).
Transneft Chief Executive Officer Valery Chernayev told Reuters that the firm wanted Russia's entire 24 percent stake -- a demand that could delay the project even further.
CPC, set up in 1992, is seeking to build a 1,580 km (990 mile) pipeline linking Kazakhstan's Tengiz oil field and Russia's Black Sea oil expot outlet Novorossiisk.
Chevron and Mobil, with a $20 billion oil project in Tengiz, are the main future customers of the CPC pipeline.
Officials signed the deal in a Moscow hotel conference area, but only after breaking out of negotiations repeatedly to run to corners of the room and consult.
"This concludes the first phase of the project," Serov said. "Now a follow-up step, which will be no easier than what we accomplished today, must be made -- project implementation."
CPC nominated Transneft as operator, but CPC sources said they had a stringent list of conditions Transneft had to agree to and fulfill if it wanted the role.
Serov said Western firms bidding to construct the link would have to do so jointly with Russian or Kazakh partners and said the latter would be given preference as equipment suppliers.
"From our point of view, Transneft has been designated as an operator," Chevron's Bindra told Reuters, adding that the group must still negotiate an operating agreement.
"For three years, we failed to find a common language," Balgimbayev said, adding that he was pleased with the deal.
The pipeline will initially move 28 million tonnes a year (560,000 barrels per day) of Kazakh and possibly Russian crude and will have a peak capacity of 67 million tonnes a year (1.34 million bpd).
A Chinese court has jailed a 56-year-old dissident for five years for subversion, dealing another blow to the country's tiny, struggling democracy movement.
The Intermediate People's Court in Xi'an city, in the northern province of Shaanxi, convicted Zhang Zong'ai this week of spreading "counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement", his lawyer, Zhang Jiankang, said on Saturday.
The dissident, detained since June, has appealed to the Shaanxi provincial Higher People's Court, the Hong Kong-based Human Rights and Democracy in China Information Centre said.
"Their (Chinese authorities) intention is to kill the chicken for the monkey to see... to frighten other dissidents," a spokesman for the centre, which monitors human rights abuses in China, said in a telephone interview.
Zhang was previously jailed for five years for demanding Premier Li Peng be impeached for ordering the military to crush student-led pro-democracy demonstrations centred in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in June 1989, the human rights watchdog said.
He lost his seat in the local lawmaking body along with his teaching job at the Xi'an Institute of Statistics and his wife divorced him after his incarceration in 1989, his family said.
Asked to comment on Zhang's latest conviction, his sister, Zhang Xin, said he was innocent.
"He was wrongly accused," the sister said by telephone. "He didn't commit any crime... He didn't do anything."
His lawyer told Reuters the court had found Zhang guilty of attacking China's judiciary in an interview with former student leader Wang Dan that was later published in a Hong Kong newspaper.
Wang, a former student leader of the 1989 democracy demonstrations, was sentenced to 11 years in prison last month for conspiring to subvert the government.
The court also found Zhang guilty of signing a petition last year urging authorities to show political tolerance, the lawyer said.
The court cleared Zhang of any wrongdoing in accepting money from an overseas group, the lawyer said. The court ruled Zhang did accept money but that he did not use the funds for counter-revolutionary activities.
The lawyer said the verdict also did not mention a charge in the bill of indictment that accused Zhang of "pledging loyalty" to the Taiwan authorities by writing to General Wego Chiang.
Chiang is the sole surviving son of the late Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek, who fled to Taiwan after losing the Chinese civil war to the Communists in 1949. China regards Taiwan as a rebel province.
The dissident had not mailed a letter to Chiang that was found in his home in Xi'an.
Beijing's Communists and Taipei's Nationalists have been political rivals for almost five decades.
In recent months, the Chinese authorities have dealt crushing blows to the struggling democracy movement.
Most dissidents have already been forced into exile or are serving long sentences in prison or labour camps.
China dismisses criticism of its human rights record as interference in its internal affairs.
Three pro-democracy activists are currently standing trial on charges of counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement in Hefei, capital of the central province of Anhui.
In the southern boomtown of Shenzhen that neighbours Hong Kong, two labour activists are standing trial for conspiring to subvert the government.
Philip Zimmermann, a computer programmer and cryptographer who was investigated by the U.S. government for three years because his encryption software given away over the Internet was classified as a weapon, is going mainstream with the hopes of making money.
At this week's Internet World trade show in New York, Zimmermann, who has become a hero among the Internet cognoscenti after his battle with the government will unveil his company, a private firm called Pretty Good Privacy Inc. and two security software products for Internet users, aimed at protecting privacy in cyberspace.
Zimmermann's original data scrambling software, also known as encryption software, is already being used by more than 2 million users since Zimmermann first began distributing it over the Net in 1991.
PGP Mail, as the product is called, scrambles electronic mail, which can be unscrambled by the designated recipient.
But Zimmermann's software was so powerful that it attracted the attention of the U.S. Justice Department and the Department of Commerce. Its encryption was stronger (and harder to crack) than the legal limits set by the United States for export and was therefore considered a munition.
Last January, the United States dropped its investigation of Zimmermann, without ever saying what it was investigating, after three years of intense scrutiny.
"It was like a sword of Damocles hanging over his head," said a spokesman for PGP, based in San Mateo, Calif.
Now, as Zimmermann goes from a "shareware" model of giving the software away for free, into a real commercial venture, he joined with some heavy hitters in Silicon Valley. Jonathan Seybold, a noted industry analyst, is a founder of Pretty Good Privacy, as is Dan Lynch, who founded the InterOp trade show. Other executives who recently joined the company include Phil Dunkelberger, formerly vice president of marketing at Symantec Corp. Inc. and Tom Steding, most recently of 3Com Corp..
PGP so far is privately funded, with no venture capital help, even though some venture capitalists offered to become investors. The company has also purchased two other small software firms, whose products make a good match with PGP's.
For example, PGP acquired ViaCrypt, which was the company Zimmermann licensed PGP software to while he was under federal investigation. Now with ViaCrypt's enhancements, PGP Mail is even easier to use and will "plug in" easily to popular electronic mail packages, such as QualComm Inc.'s Eudora Mail.
PGP Mail, because of its heavy encryption, still cannot be used outside the United States, but it can be used to send mail within the United States and Canada. It has the strongest encryption available, using mathematical algorithms to encode the data that can be as big as 3,072 bits long, which is considered military-grade.
Currently, the United States allows software with 128-bit encryption to be exported, but that is only if the users will provide a key to decipher the data.
Pretty Good Privacy will also introduce a product called the PGP Cookie Cutter, based on software from a company it bought called PrivNet, of Chapel Hill, N.C., but now moving to San Mateo as it merges with PGP, which has about 60 employees.
The PGP Cookie Cutter lets a user selectively block the so-called "cookies" on the Internet, which monitor his or her Web visits. Cookies are data files which track where a user has been and what the user is doing on the World Wide Web. They are increasingly used by companies and advertisers to monitor and accumulate Internet user data.
Both products will be commercially available next year.
In the true spirit of the lightning-fast world of the Internet, the browser wars which peaked in late summer have now been replaced by the battle for delivering content efficiently over the Web.
The coming months will see an intensifying battle between products that deliver information directly to a computer, rather than stumbling around looking for it with often lengthy and cumbersome Web addresses.
The competition centers on transforming the Internet from a "pull" model, in which people actively search the Web for information or use software agents to do that for them, to a "push" model, in which people can choose once what they want to be sent and it is published to them continuously.
"Everybody knows who they want to get information from. The real problem is: When is it that they have information that I care about?" said Eli Barkat, chief executive of BackWeb Technologies, a San Jose, Calif.-based start-up.
"What people want is to build relationships," he said.
Vivek Ranadive, president of Reuters Holdings Plc's Tibco Inc. unit, likens the initial enthusiasm for surfing the Net to Sunday drives in the early days of the automobile, a pleasant but passing phenomenon.
Electronic commerce over the Internet, which is expected to gather steam in 1997, requires a more efficient way of navigating the information superhighway, executives say.
More than a dozen companies, mostly small high-tech start-ups, have been busily seeking to define the space, much as search engines like Yahoo Inc., Infoseek Corp., Excite Inc. and Lycos Inc. have done in helping people search out what they want.
"As it was for search engines six months or a year ago, this is an area that has been more or less discovered by venture capitalists and others as something that has to be dealt with," said Jack Wilson, managing editor of Technologic Partners' ComputerLetter.
In addition to the impracticality of aiming to find real-time information in the more than 50 million Web pages that search engines catalog, many companies would like to be able to update customers and suppliers directly.
"There are some obvious problems with today's browse-and-pull technique for getting at information when you need it," Wilson said. "So there is a proliferation of new companies and new products from old companies aimed at solving this."
More than a dozen companies are now vying for attention, including Ex Machina, which is providing a wireless news alerting system made by Global Village Communication Inc., and New York City-based Ifusion Com.
So far, the category has been dominated by one pioneering entry, Cupertino, Calif.-based PointCast Network, which burst onto the scene in the spring with a screen saver display which offers customized and updated news, data and advertising.
"The biggest application that's got the visibility with this type of technology is PointCast," said Phil White, chief executive of Informix Software Inc.. "PointCast has got everybody now aware of how I can subscribe to things."
Another hot Silicon Valley start-up in the sector is Marimba Inc., founded by Kim Polese and three colleagues from the Sun Microsystems Inc. team which created the popular new Java programming language.
Industry executives say competition is vital to expanding the marketplace, but it also creates confusion as companies vie for a share of the action.
"I think there's a lot of confusion in the market," said Barkat. "You hear a lot of names when people talk about this space, and the reason is the space is huge."
Technologies that transform the way information is delivered on the Web, such as those which Tibco Inc. will announce Monday, may help expand the market, according to industry analysts and executives.
"We are essentially a plumbing company, so we do plumbing software, and people like Marimba and BackWeb and PointCast can actually make use of our software," said Ranadive.
"Now the technology they presently use to do this is a pull technology and so you can emulate a push by going out and asking a lot of questions," he added. "But you're tying up the network, you're tying up the server by doing that."
The health of Czech President Vaclav Havel has improved considerably as he recuperates from lung cancer surgery last week, his spokesman said on Sunday.
Havel, 60, who had a small malignant tumour removed along with half of his right lung on December 2, required an emergency tracheostomy on Thursday to connect a respirator through his throat after he developed severe breathing problems.
"The worst is behind us," presidential spokesman Ladislav Spacek told Czech Radio on Sunday. "The tendency, the return to improvement (in Havel's health) is distinct, and we hope it will continue into the future."
Spacek took the place of Havel on the president's regular national Sunday radio programme.
The president had hoped to record at least a sentence for the show, but his condition on Sunday morning, when it was was recorded, kept him to the role of a listener, Czech radio said.
The president has been communicating by writing notes to doctors and his staff.
Czech Archbishop Miloslav Vlk led a national prayer mass for Havel on Sunday at St Vitus Cathedral in Prague Castle.
Dozens of friends and leaders around the world, including U.S. President Bill Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, have sent get-well wishes to the hero of Prague's non-violent 1989 revolution over communism.
Havel, a heavy smoker, entered the Third Surgical Clinic in central Prague on November 25 after his office said he had been suffering from pneumonia.
After the surgery, he developed pneumonia in the opposite lung and had been fighting a fever, but his spokesman said on Sunday that Havel's temperature had returned to normal.
Doctors say Havel will probably remain connected to the respirator another four to six days, and if his recovery goes well, he might be back to work as soon as mid-January.
The former dissident-playwright who helped lead Prague's so-called "Velvet Revoution" over communism has limited executive powers as president, and did not relinquish any of his duties during his surgery or his recovery.
Another member of Colombia's main oil workers' union was arrested on terrorist charges, a union leader said Sunday on the eve a meeting to set the start date for a strike that could paralyze the industry.
The capture of Edgar Riano in Huila province Saturday came after the arrest of 12 others Thursday -- 10 of them from the USO oil union.
All are accused of carrying out dynamite attacks on the country's oil pipelines and of links to the National Liberation Army (ELN), the country's second largest guerrilla force. The chief prosecutor's office was unavailable for comment on the latest detention.
USO head Hernando Hernandez said last Thursday the union would fix the "zero hour" for the start of an indefinite strike to protest the wave of arrests at an extraordinary assembly Monday. The action is also to oppose government plans for what the union sees as the creeping privatization of state-run oil company Ecopetrol, Hernandez said.
Following a merger between the 5,700-strong USO and smaller oil workers' associations, the strike could spread to the private sector, including foreign multinationals operating in Colombia.
USO leaders were due to meet Colombian Interior Minister Horacio Serpa Sunday evening to discuss the arrest of members and the planned walkout. The government seems likely to declare an oil workers' strike illegal on the grounds that it is affecting a key sector of the economy.
Mines and Energy Minister Rodrigo Villamizar said Friday that Ecopetrol had enough fuel reserves to meet demand for 19 days and said any shortfalls in domestic supply could be made up by increasing imports in the event of a USO strike.
A 24-hour stoppage by USO workers in mid-October paralyzed pumping -- 350,000 barrels a day -- along the country's two main oil pipelines for the first time ever.
In a separate incident in the oil town of Barrancabermeja, two unidentified assailants blasted local USO official Gilberto Carreno at close range with a shotgun and wounded as he left a bar Saturday morning.
USO social services secretary Gustavo Triana the motives for the attack were unclear. Members of USO, known for its fiercely nationalistic stance, have frequently been targeted by right-wing paramilitaries who accuse the union of backing the ELN.
Australia's wealthy baby-boomers are disillusioned with service provided by banks and believe loyalty is not rewarded, a survey released on Monday found.
Those approaching retirement were also unhappy with the performance of their superannuation funds and were looking to move elsewhere wherever possible, the survey by forecaster BIS Shrapnel has found.  
"Australia's affuent boomers -- the demographic group owning the largest share of private wealth -- are distrustful of the performance and motivations of financial institutions, and yearn for a return to the days when customer loyalty was rewarded," BIS Shrapnel said in the survey titled "Financial Services for the Affluent Boomers."
Those surveyed had assets worth over A$150,000, excluding the family home.
The survey of 128 people aged over 45 in 14 seperate focus groups around Australia found they sought more individual treatment by knowledgable staff.  
"In particular those approaching retirement are more likely to equate good service with personal service and contact," BIS Shrapnel survey project leader Geoff Ludowyke said.
"They want to develop a relationship with one particular person within their banking branch," he said.
The survey found that Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) was the least liked of all the banks, Ludowyke said.
Respondents found the CBA slower, more unfriendly, more impersonal and less modern than the other banks, he said.  
Westpac Banking Corp Ltd was seen as the next least-liked bank while the ANZ Banking Group Ltd and the National Bank Ltd were seen in another group in-between CBA and the credit unions, which were the most favourably received.
Former building societies like St George Bank Ltd and Advance Bank Ltd, which are in the process of merging, were seen as similar to the credit unions.
"Among the major banks with the most negative comments were the Commonwealth and Westpac," Ludowyke told Reuters.  
"ANZ and NAB were in the next group while the credit unions were in another group out front," he said.
The survey also found that rich baby-boomers did not believe that swapping pension funds would improve their returns.
"They intend to move away from superannuation," Ludowyke said.
Law changes were also generating anxiety about superannuation, he said. "Affluent boomers expect governments to continue to change the rules in a way that will benefit governments rather than contributors," he said.
The survey also found that banks were perceived as greedy.  
"Reports of huge profits compound the resentment to bank fees and banks are believed to be primarily concerned with looking after their shareholders rather than their customers," the report said. "Affluent boomers are particularly annoyed by new charges for ATM and EFTPOS usage."
Ludowyke said BIS Schrapnel would approach the big financial institutions for funding for a more comprehensive survey of 800 people face to face on attitudes towards the financial institutions.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Hong Kong's lawmaking chamber suffered a blow last week when its speaker broke ranks to vie for a seat in an interim body Beijing plans to install in the territory next year, political analysts said on Sunday.
Andrew Wong, Legislative Council president, made an about-turn when he said he was seeking a seat in the Provisional Legislature, a body he denounced during 1995 elections.
But his move to join 31 colleagues seeking seats in the provisional body, which China will put in place of the Legislative Council, threatens to widen schisms already dividing the chamber, commentators said.
"Cracks which have already emerged within the Legislative Council over the bid by some members for a seat on the Provisional Legislature will widen in the next six months," said Chris Yeung, political commentator with the Sunday edition of the South China Morning Post newspaper.
Yeung warned of a flurry of motion debates, adding that "the normal operation of the Legislative Council will be adversely affected to a great extent, if not paralysed".
China, angered by a string of democratic reforms implemented by colonial Governor Chris Patten, has vowed to disband the present elected legislature and replace it with the provisional assembly when Hong Kong returns to Chinese rule in mid-1997.
On Wednesday, the Selection Committee, carefully assembled by China, is expected to choose the man who will succeed Patten as the territory's first post-colonial leader.
The committee's next task is to name the 60-member Provisional Legislature on December 21.
Wong, denounced by some fellow legislators, would not say whether he supported the Provisional Legislature, but he tried to convince reporters he would remain an impartial leader of the existing chamber.
"You ought to wait until I act partially -- and when that happens, criticise me and I will retract my decisions and previous rulings," Wong told reporters on Saturday.
While it is not yet clear how and where the future Provisional Legislature will meet and operate before it actually assumes office next July 1, observers said the existence of two lawmaking bodies cannot auger well for the territory.
"In any country, when you have two bodies from which laws emanate at the same time, there's going to be some confusion and dispute," said Michael DeGolyer, associate professor at Hong Kong's Baptist University, who is in charge of a long-term study on the transition.
"For the next six months, we're obviously going to be in a very confused state. Normally this causes all kinds of political and economic chaos."
China is unlikely to concede on its demand to enter the World Trade Organisation as a developing country and has the patience to hunker down for a long wait to win accession on its terms, a senior Chinese analyst said.
"Both sides need to make concessions, but there is one issue of principle on which China will not change," Pei Changhong, head of the department of Foreign Economy and Trade under the leading think-tank, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told Reuters in an interview at the weekend.
"China will only enter as a developing country," Pei said, referring to one stumbling block -- that of Beijing's entry status. The United States insists that the size of China's economy ranks it as a developed country.
"This is a matter of principle," Pei said.
China was deeply disappointed when its application to join the world trade body as a founding member two years ago failed, and talks since in Geneva have proceeded at a snail's pace.
He said he expected little progress when ministers of the WTO's 125 member states meet in Singapore this week, with China attending under observer status, but said China would seize the opportunity to explain its stand in meetings on the sidelines.
"After we gain recognition of our status then the talks could more easily proceed," Pei said. "There may be the possibility of concessions (by China) on some concrete issues."
Pei declined to say where China might be prepared to offer concessions in line with a "road map" presented to Beijing by Washington outlining liberalisations it wants before it will support Chinese membership.
He said China's economy was already remarkably open compared with some of its neighbours such as Japan and South Korea.
"When you go shopping in Beijing you see goods from all over the world on every shelf," he said. "You don't see nearly so many Chinese products on foreign shelves."
Chinese President Jiang Zemin announced at the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum last month in the Philippines that China would slash average import tariffs to 15 percent by 2000 from the current 23 percent.
Pei said non-tariff barriers still existed in China, citing the service sector as one area to which foreign firms were eager to gain admittance, but insisted Beijing was gradualling pulling down these barriers.
"Opening up requires a process," he said. "It is a fact that China is a backward country and must protect some parts of its economy. The demands on us must not be too harsh."
Pei offered a less optimistic view than China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen who has said talks with the United States on entry could be wrapped up by mid-1997 as well as WTO chief Renato Ruggiero who has said next year could see a solution to the exclusion of the world's most populous nation from the world trade body.
Pei said 1997 seemed a rather ambitious target given the distance between the United States and China on many issues, but said he hoped to see entry by 1999.
"There are both advantages and disadvantages to China from entry to the WTO," Pei said, setting off the access to worldwide markets for Chinese goods against the cost and competition its domestic industry would face.
"China's stand now is that it is up to the other side," Pei said.
"China actively wants membership but it can wait. It will be good for China to enter but it won't be a catastrophe if we have to wait," he said.
"It is in no one's interests to keep China out."
Just months ago, shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa was a retiring man who avoided the limelight, kept his political views secret, and seemed to steer an even keel between his loyalties to China and Britain.
But in a short time, he has emerged as the hot favourite to become Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader and evolved into a tough-talking conservative, loudly singing China's tune on key political issues, under the bright spotlight of the media.
The 59-year-old tycoon with hallmark spiky grey hair has been swapping his pinstripe suits for jeans and sportswear to traipse around local communities to show he not only walks among kings but also has the common touch.
Tung, 59, saw his fortunes almost dashed in the 1980s when the family company met ill winds, but Beijing helped bail him out with a syndicated loan, and now he is poised to be their man in Hong Kong.
On Wednesday, China's carefully screened Selection Committee will choose the chief executive to run Hong Kong after Britain hands its last important colony back to Beijing in mid-1997.
Tung is streets ahead of his rivals, having run away with 206 of the 400 votes in the first round of balloting.
Behind him are retired chief judge Yang Ti Liang, who scored 82, and businessman Peter Woo, who clocked up 54.
A poll last week for the first time made Tung the public's favourite -- 47 percent support versus Yang's 29 -- although the masses are excluded from voting for their future leader.
There is hardly a voice that does not pronounce Tung the predetermined winner. A pointed handshake from President Jiang Zemin in Beijing last January anointed Tung, most people think.
Since he declared his candidacy two months ago Tung has said he would legalise the Communist party, condemned the Democratic Party -- Hong Kong's largest -- for being anti-China, and warned foreign countries not to use Hong Kong to subvert China.
He also said anybody advocating independence for Taiwan or Tibet could not stay.
He has accused colonial Governor Chris Patten of trying to split Hong Kong, called for pro-China patriotism in the schools, and unveiled administrative polices stressing executive-led rule and a slower route to democracy.
Last week Tung rounded on those who use the term "pro-China" as a dirty word. "We have to turn pro-China into a very positive definition. It is a good thing to love our country," he said.
"I find him more colonial than the colonial government," complained Democratic Party legislator Tsang Kin-shing.
Tung has vowed to give free rein to Hong Kong's capitalist economy and business development. But he has also promised to boost the role of provident funds, guarantee welfare for the poor, and make cheap housing available.
While some fret over his conservatism, most who know him both at home and abroad hail Tung's good character. He has a reputation for modesty, wisdom and caution.
"He is a man, in my view, of great integrity, a strong individual, independent-minded, surely and sincerely promoting the welfare of the people of Hong Kong," said U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord, a friend of Tung's.
But Lord noted he had failed to sway Tung to reject China's plan to scrap Hong Kong's elected Legislative Council with a provisional legislature next July 1. Britain has condemned the plan as a "black day for democracy" in the territory.
Tung has been a senior member of a Preparatory Committee of pro-Beijing Hong Kong notables and mainland China officials crafting the power structures to replace British colonial rule.
He was lauded as an impartial and honest counsellor by Patten when Tung left Patten's advisory cabinet in June.
He resigned in October as head of his firm, Orient Overseas (International) Ltd, to make his leadership bid.
Tung took the helm of Orient after his father died in 1979. He has publicly acknowledged China had helped bail out the firm 11 years ago by backing a US$120 million fund led by tycoon Henry Fok, a kingmaker in today's leadership contest.
Tung is believed to be liked in Britain and by many business leaders who hope he will form a "dream team" with incumbent Chief Secretary Anson Chan -- Hong Kong's top civil servant.
Born in Shanghai in 1937, Tung was educated at Liverpool University in Britain.
China is unlikely to concede on its demand to enter the World Trade Organisation as a developing country and has the patience to hunker down for a long wait to win agreement to its terms, a senior Chinese analyst said.
"Both sides need to make concessions, but there is one issue  of principle on which China will not change," Pei Changhong, head of the department of Foreign Economy and Trade under the leading think tank, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told Reuters in an interview over the weekend.
"China will only enter as a developing country," Pei said, referring to one stumbling block -- that of Beijing's entry status. The United States insists that the size of China's economy ranks it as a developed country.
"This is a matter of principle," Pei said.
China was deeply disappointed when its application to join the world trade body as a founding member two years ago failed, and talks since in Geneva have proceeded at a snail's pace.
Pei said he expected little progress when ministers of the WTO's 125 member states meet in Singapore this week, with China attending under observer status, but said China would seize the opportunity to explain its stand in meetings on the sidelines.
"After we gain recognition of our status then the talks could more easily proceed," Pei said. "There may be the possibility of concessions (by China) on some concrete issues."
Pei declined to say where China might be prepared to offer concessions in line with a "road map" presented to Beijing by Washington outlining liberalisations it wants before it will support Chinese membership.
He said China's economy was already remarkably open compared with some of its neighbours, such as Japan and South Korea.
"When you go shopping in Beijing, you see goods from all over the world on every shelf," he said. "You don't see nearly so many Chinese products on foreign shelves."
Chinese President Jiang Zemin announced at the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum last month in the Philippines that China would slash average import tariffs to 15 percent by the year 2000 from the current 23 percent.
Pei said non-tariff barriers still existed in China, citing the service sector as one area to which foreign firms were eager to gain admittance, but insisted Beijing was gradually pulling down these barriers.
"Opening up requires a process," he said. "It is a fact that China is a backward country and must protect some parts of its economy. The demands on us must not be too harsh."
Pei offered a less optimistic view than China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, who has said talks with the United States on entry could be wrapped up by mid-1997 as well as WTO chief Renato Ruggiero, who has said next year could see a solution to the exclusion of the world's most populous nation from the world trade body.
Pei said 1997 seemed a rather ambitious target given the distance between the United States and China on many issues, but said he hoped to see entry by 1999.
"There are both advantages and disadvantages to China from entry to the WTO," Pei said, setting off the access to worldwide markets for Chinese goods against the cost and competition its domestic industry would face.
"China's stand now is that it is up to the other side," Pei said.
"China actively wants membership but it can wait. It will be good for China to enter but it won't be a catastrophe if we have to wait," he said.
"It is in no one's interests to keep China out."
In the true spirit of the lightning-fast world of the Internet, the browser wars which peaked in late summer have now been replaced by the battle for delivering content efficiently over the Web.
The coming months will see an intensifying battle between products that deliver information directly to a computer, rather than stumbling around looking for it with often lengthy and cumbersome Web addresses.
The competition centers on tranforming the Internet from a "pull" model, in which people actively search the Web for information or use software agents to do that for them, to a "push" model, in which people can choose once what they want to be sent and it is published to them continuously.
"Everybody knows who they want to get information from. The real problem is: When is it that they have information that I care about?" said Eli Barkat, chief executive of BackWeb Technologies, a San Jose, Calif.-based start-up.
"What people want is to build relationships," he said.
Vivek Ranadive, president of Reuters Holdings Plc's Tibco Inc. unit, likens the initial enthusiasm for surfing the Net to Sunday drives in the early days of the automobile, a pleasant but passing phenomenon.
Electronic commerce over the Internet, which is expected to gather steam in 1997, requires a more efficient way of navigating the information superhighway, executives say.
More than a dozen companies, mostly small high-tech start-ups, have been busily seeking to define the space, much as search engines like Yahoo Inc., Infoseek Corp., Excite Inc. and Lycos Inc. have done in helping people search out what they want.
"As it was for search engines six months or a year ago, this is an area that has been more or less discovered by venture capitalists and others as something that has to be dealt with," said Jack Wilson, managing editor of Technologic Partners' ComputerLetter.
In addition to the impracticality of aiming to find real-time information in the more than 50 million Web pages that search engines catalog, many companies would like to be able to update customers and suppliers directly.
"There are some obvious problems with today's browse-and-pull technique for getting at information when you need it," Wilson said. "So there is a proliferation of new companies and new products from old companies aimed at solving this."
More than a dozen companies are now vying for attention, including Ex Machina, which is providing a wireless news alerting system made by Global Village Communication Inc., and New York City-based Ifusion Com.
So far, the category has been dominated by one pioneering entry, Cupertino, Calif.-based PointCast Network, which burst onto the scene in the spring with a screen saver display which offers customized and updated news, data and advertising.
"The biggest application that's got the visibility with this type of technology is PointCast," said Phil White, chief executive of Informix Software Inc.. "PointCast has got everybody now aware of how I can subscribe to things."
Another hot Silicon Valley start-up in the sector is Marimba Inc., founded by Kim Polese and three colleagues from the Sun Microsystems Inc. team which created the popular new Java programming language.
Industry executives say competition is vital to expanding the marketplace, but it also creates confusion as companies vie for a share of the action.
"I think there's a lot of confusion in the market," said Barkat. "You hear a lot of names when people talk about this space, and the reason is the space is huge."
Technologies that transform the way information is delivered on the Web, such as those which Tibco Inc. will announce Monday, may help expand the market, according to industry analysts and executives.
"We are essentially a plumbing company, so we do plumbing software, and people like Marimba and BackWeb and PointCast can actually make use of our software," said Ranadive.
"Now the technology they presently use to do this is a pull technology and so you can emulate a push by going out and asking a lot of questions," he added. "But you're tying up the network, you're tying up the server by doing that."
A subsidiary of construction and engineering giant Bechtel Corp. said Monday it will unveil a new Internet gateway Tuesday as it seeks to break what it says is an oligopoly consisting of the phone companies that manage most of the world's Net hubs.
Genuity Inc. said the gateway, known as a network access point, and a new service dubbed Hopscotch would relieve the traffic jams now bedeviling the Internet, resulting in faster, more reliable Internet service for consumers and corporations.
The network access point, which will be based in Phoenix, and Hopscotch, will be formally announced at the Internet World trade show in New York, San Francisco-based Genuity said.
There are now about eight major network access points, which funnel and route most of the world's Internet traffic. Network access points also allow smaller Internet access providers to gain access to the Net and have recently suffered heavy congestion.
Six major network access points are in the United States: San Jose, Calif.; Washington; Chicago; Los Angeles; Palo Alto, Calif.; and the New York area.
Until mid-1995, the National Science Foundation funded four of the biggest U.S. access points. But, with the NSF no longer funding the Internet, these gateways are operated by "Baby Bell" regional phone companies or long-distance phone companies.
"That's why we believe tomorrow will be a new day for the Internet," Rodney Joffe, chief technology officer of Genuity, said in an interview.
Joffe said that both the Baby Bells and the long-distance providers make money by charging the big Internet service providers $2,500 to $5,000 monthly for acess to the Net.
However, he said the phone companies were not making the investments needed to support the growth of the Internet.
Genuity said it will make its new network access point a not-for-profit operation in the hopes that it will gain many customers for its network hosting services. Genuity said it was not charging Internet service providers rent or connection fees at its Phoenix center.
Genuity said it hoped to build more facilities like the one in Phoenix.
"We will invest whatever it takes," Joffe said. "We are not making any friends among the telcos (phone companies), but we are making friends among corporations and government users."
A spokesman for MCI Communications Corp., one of the three main providers of the core Internet backbone, said MCI always welcomes more companies adding to the Internet. MCI does not manage a network access point.
Pacific Telesis Group, which manages a network access point, recently said its local telephone service was suffering due to massive Internet usage in California, which was experiencing heavy congestion at its network access point.
PacTel officials were not immediately available to comment on Genuity's statement.
"The story that Joffe tells is quite exciting and quite responsive to the problems on the Internet," said Bob Metcalfe, founder of computer network power 3Com Corp. and most recently an outspoken columnist on the subject of Internet congestion. "The things they are proposing to do for the Internet are badly needed."
Genuity hopes to sell its network services, including its Hopscotch service -- a Web site hosting service with advanced features -- to businesses. It is aimed at companies selling over the Internet, news services and major corporate Internet sites. Already, Genuity said it has 35 customers, including C/Net Inc., the Internet-based news service that focuses on technology.
Genuity said its Hopscotch service was available immediately, starting at $5,000 per month, for customers who want to design and start up large-scale Web sites.
Bechtel, the engineering and construction giant also based in San Francisco, purchased a majority interest in Genuity in November for undisclosed terms.
Rival fund managers in Hong Kong condemned Jardine Fleming Investment Management (JFIM) on Friday and expressed shock at revelations of front-running at the British territory's biggest and most prominent fund manager.
"It's appalling that a leading, well-respected portfolio manager was profiting at the expense of his clients," said Gregory Neumann, executive director at Scudder Stevens and Clark Asia Ltd. "Any institution worth their salt will fire them."
Most fund managers, including major competitors, said they were stunned to learn of the severity of the JFIM's actions and stressed concern about Hong Kong's regulatory integrity.
"How could this have been an isolated incident when clearly there was a culture there that this was fine?" asked one competitor. "Why did one guy have to take the fall? If they're regulating properly they should fire everyone who did that."
A five-month investigation by the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) in London and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong exposed late allocation of trades by Colin Armstrong, a charismatic and senior member of Hong Kong's fund management community.
The late trades, many involving Armstrong's personal account, allowed for a change in the trading price which Armstrong turned to his benefit, the investigation concluded.
Jardine Fleming was fined 700,000 sterling. JFIM's former chief executive Robert Thomas, who had earlier resigned, has had his registration in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong revoked.
London-based Jardine Fleming Asset Management lost its authorisation.
"I think the disciplinary action was minor given the severity of what they did," said one fund manager.
Jardine Fleming declined to respond to the criticism, but the SFC said it was convinced Jardine Fleming would function in the future as a fully compliant firm.
"What people are saying in the market, the scepticism they're voicing, is not unreasonable but I don't think it quite takes into account that these guys have really received the blast of a lifetime," said SFC director Deborah Glass. "They know their credibility is at stake. They know we will be back."
Another commentator remained unconvinced, suggesting that the Jardine Fleming incident was merely the tip of an iceberg.
"This is rife in Asia. It's rife in all emerging markets," said Gary Greenberg, deputy managing director at Peregrine Asset Management. "But Hong Kong and Singapore are no longer emerging markets and all of a sudden people are paying attention."
Glass said that Hong Kong's short regulatory history and relatively light reliance on "black letter law", or written regulations, should not suggest that its regulation is lax.
She also rejected comparisons between the Jardine Fleming scandal and that of Nick Leeson, the rogue trader who brought down the prestigious Barings bank through unauthorised options trading in Singapore last year.
"There is no parallel between the actions of Nick Leeson in Singapore and the activities of a fund manager in Hong Kong," Glass said. "I understand there is a certain symmetry but one of the enormous differences here is that the regulatory system identified the misconduct, worked with regulators in London and dealt with the problem, unlike Singapore."
The Jardine Fleming incident should serve as a reminder to all Hong Kong fund managers that a corporate culture of compliance is required and will be enforced, Glass said.
Finance Minister Ivan Kocarnik on Monday, for the second week in a row, skipped a meeting with the Prague bourse's governing chamber, amid growing calls for his ministry to tackle problems in Czech securities trading.
"At two o'clock (Kocarnik) cancelled his participation in this afternoon's meeting," Prague Stock Exchange (PSE) spokesman Milan Vodicka told Reuters.
The bourse's Chamber, which has been seeking stronger ministry action to ease investors' concerns about market transparency, later declined Kocarnik's return invitation for a "future" meeting at his ministry.
The meetings had been scheduled to discuss taking tougher regulatory action to address concerns of transparency and insider trading on Czech capital markets.
Jiri Spicka, director of the Finance Ministry's banking division, told Reuters that Kocarnik was "too busy with the preparation of the state budget" and "it was impossible for him to leave the ministry".
The budget has been expected for weeks to go to the floor of parliament for its second reading in the session which begins on Tuesday.
Kocarnik then invited the 18-member Chamber to his ministry for a "future" meeting, Spicka said.
The Chamber later declined that invitation, an official at the office of Chamber Chairman Tomas Jezek told Reuters.
Jezek lambasted Kocarnik on Sunday for lax regulation of the capital markets during the annual national congress of the ruling Civic Democratic Party, of which both men are members.
Jezek told the party meeting that the reluctance of finance ministry officials to more strongly regulate the capital markets was "absurd" and investors' lack of confidence could eventually do major damage the country's balance of payments.
"The capital account of our payments balance is alreday unable to level with a growing deficit in our trade balance, and the capital market needs to gain back the lost confidence," Jezek was quoted by the daily Pravo as saying.
Jezek warned that poor capital market regulation might even force a devaluation of the crown if confidence is not restored.
Jezek is leading plans to set up an independent markets watchdog akin to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), funded by transaction fees, by the middle of next year.
The finance ministry has balked at the plan, but Jezek is widely believed to have the backing of the parliament's budget committee which he has said will probably submit legislation permitting a Czech SEC to be set up in the first half of 1997.
Kocarnik has rejected criticism that his ministry is failing in its responsibility to properly regulate the system, and says stronger regulations would be "anti-market".
Still, foreign and domestic investors have repeatedly called for steps to beef up the supervision of the Czech capital market, and the ministry has said it is considering its own plan to re-regulate securities trading.
Richard Salzmann, chairman of the largest Czech bank Komercni Banka a.s., told Pravo that "none of the more important groups want to trade on this capital market."
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Britain on Monday referred brewer to leisure group Bass Plc's acquisition of Carlsberg-Tetley (C-T) to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission for investigation but analysts said they believed the deal would go through once certain conditions had been met.
"Mr Lang (British Trade &amp; Industry Minister) considers that the merger gives rise to competition concerns in relation to the significant increase in concentration of production in the UK brewing industry," the Department of Trade &amp; Industry said in a statement.
Bass acquired half of C-T from Allied Domecq for 200 million pounds ($328 million) in August and declared its plan to buy the rest of the company from Danish brewer Carlsberg A/S, in exchange for Carlsberg taking 20 percent in the merged company.
Britain's MMC will investigate whether a full merger of the two companies would operate against the public interest. It will report by March 24, 1997.
If approved, the merger would create Britain's largest brewer by far, with at least 35 percent of the market. Bass now has a 23 percent market share.
Rival brewers and analysts widely expected a referral to the MMC because of the dominance it would give the merged group in setting beer prices in some regions.
Bass shares fell about 6p on the news to 783p but recovered to close 14-1/2p higher at 803-1/2p as analysts said they expected the Bass deal to go through with conditions imposed, given the force of growing competition in the industry and brewing over-capacity.
But they added Lang will be in no rush to approve the deal so close to a general election due before May 1.
"They will probably try to defer the decision until after the election. I don't think they want the negative PR of having a large number of people fired," said Lehman Brothers analyst John Wakeley.
Former Trade and Industry secretary Michael Heseltine, accredited with nodding through Scottish and Newcastle's (S&amp;N) acquisition of Courage from Australian brewer Foster's 18 months ago without an MMC referral, was operating mid-way through the Conservative Party's term in office.
His stance on competition policy was also widely viewed by analysts as more laissez-faire than that of Lang.
"Clearly there is a very strong element of politics. And it is certainly more subject to politics than the last decision on S&amp;N for Courage," said Nikko analyst Dermott Carr.
Analysts expect the MMC to require Bass to sell about 1,000 of its pubs, it currently owns about 4,200, and to cull its brand porfolio. It may be required to sell more pubs in areas where it is especially dominant.
A combination of these two conditions would reduce Bass' market share to around 35 percent from about 40 percent if the deal was allowed to go ahead unconditionally.
Brian Revell, Transport and General Workers Union national secretary for the drinks industry, welcomed the decision to refer the Bass takeover.
"Our main concern is that if the takeover is allowed to proceed, at least 2,000 jobs are likely to be lost," he said.
A spokeswoman for Bass said the company hoped the MMC could make a hasty decision. "We are confident that more jobs will be safer at both companies if the merger goes ahead than would otherwise be the case," she added.
Britain's Secretary of State has the power to refer to the MMC for investigation any proposed merger which creates or intensifies a market share of 25 percent of supply in Britain.
Bass was knocked off its perch as Britain's leading brewer last year when S&amp;N acquired Courage, giving it a 31 percent share of Britain's beer market.
C-T was formed as a joint venture between Allied Domecq and Carlsberg A/S in 1992 by the merger of their British brewing and wholesaling businesses.
Bass announced the acquisition of Allied's 50 percent stake in August along with some 30 beer brands including Tetley Bitter and Skol, six breweries and C-T's network of depots. ($1=.6087 Pound)
After a five year struggle, creditors of the collapsed, fraud-ridden BCCI will receive a payment of $2.65 billion on Tuesday, equal to 24.5 percent of their claims, a spokesman for the liquidators said on Monday.
Bank of Credit and Commerce International, founded in 1972, was closed by central banks in 1991 and collapsed with debts of more than $12 billion when evidence of massive fraud and money laundering was unearthed leading to a tangled web of litigation which shows no sign of reaching an early conclusion.
BCCI had assets of $24 billion and operations in 71 countries at the time of its collapse.
Liquidator Deloitte and Touche said a further payment, reportedly of 10 percent, of the admitted claims which total some $10.5 billion should be made in the next 12 to 16 months.
The gross fund of amounts recovered by the liquidators stands at around $4.0 billion and includes $1.5 billion paid by BCCI's majority shareholder, the government of Abu Dhabi, which will pay a further $250 million in due course following a settlement reached earlier this year.
This, in addition to efforts by US authorities which resulted in the recovery of more than $500 million from the United States paved the way for the first dividend payment.
A further $245 million was paid by Saudi billionaire Sheikh Khalid bin Mahfouz who the liquidators alleged was involved in covering up the BCCI scandal. Under a 1995 Luxembourg court settlement, Mahfouz agreed to pay without admitting liability, in return for the lawsuits being dropped.
The liquidators still have outstanding claims against the Bank of England, the Institut Monetaire Luxembourgeois (BCCI's operations were based in Luxembourgh) and the auditors of the bank, international accountancy firms Price Waterhouse and Ernst &amp; Whinney, now part of the merged Ernst &amp; Young.
Price Waterhouse has said it is making a multi-billion dollar counter claim against Abu Dhabi.
Further law suits are also pending around the world in an attempt to recover further amounts.
The two biggest groups of creditors of BCCI are in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and in Britain.
The English liquidators of BCCI, Deloite &amp; Touche, have recovered over $1 billion and have been paid a massive $200 million in fees.
In a report to the High Court earlier this year, the liquidator said legal fees in the liquidation ammounted to over $75 million so far.
Britain's B.A.T Industries said on Monday it was keeping an open mind about opportunities to restructure its operations after news reports that the group is continuing its search for a partner for its financial services businesses.
Tobacco and financial services company B.A.T, however, refused to comment directly on reports that talks with another company -- said to be insurance group Commercial Union Plc -- had foundered. Commercial Union was similarly tight-lipped, declining to confirm or deny the rumours.
Bolstered by the deal talk, B.A.T shares pushed 17p higher to 468-1/2p on Monday, but a spokesman for the company said its position had not changed.
"We were widely reported as having ruled out a demerger at the third quarter (results) and now we're reported to be ruling it in. The true position is that we have an open mind."
Pressure on B.A.T, whose operations include Eagle Star, Allied Dunbar and U.S. insurance unit Farmers, to enhance shareholder value after a disappointing share price performance over the past year is seen as behind the move.
The exposure of B.A.T's tobacco business to litigation in the United States has proved a particular drag on the share, reviving talk about a possible separation of the financial services business.
Add to this the potential for cost-cutting and the perceived need for B.A.T to bolster management in its financial services arm and the attractions of a merger are clear.
Britain's biggest insurer Royal &amp; Sun Alliance is currently reaping the rewards of just such a move with the group forecasting annual savings of 175 million pounds ($287.5 million) by 1998 after the merger of Royal and Sun back in July.
A lack of any distinct competitive advantage and a number of strategic questionmarks at B.A.T's Eagle Star and Allied Dunbar operations are compounding the desire to find a partner and to follow Royal Sun in the achieving critical mass in the highly competitive domestic market, industry analysts said.
"The idea of a demerger has been doing the rounds for ages and B.A.T must be looking at the options. There is value trying to get out but I don't think a deal is imminent and I don't think it would be easy," said one analyst.
Rates are under pressure, the market is in a downturn and pressures from new entrants are severe but the prospect of some sort of a deal before too long in the sector has boosted share prices in recent months, traders said.
The industry itself is no stranger to such moves with the drive to create economies of scale and cut costs in fragmented markets producing a number of big insurance deals in the last 12 months -- in the U.S., France and the UK.
"There probably will be more agreed mergers but the big debate is whether they're worthwhile or not; the jury's still out on that," said one analyst who preferred not to be named.
"There's no doubt that you can achieve reductions in costs pretty rapidly. The question is are they sustainable. In the UK, U.S. and German markets over the past 10 years, for example, there hasn't been much correlation between efficiency, profitability and size in the insurance industry."
Hostile bids in the industry are likely to remain a rarity, however, with regulatory barriers, especially in the U.S., and a reluctance on the part of companies to take the hit from the required goodwill write-off.
"Most of the recent merger activity in the industry has been between companies that are large in their own domestic market but perceive themselves to have weaknesses that can be solved by cost-cutting, rationalisation and getting a bit more market share in their key areas," said one of the analysts.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7721  
($1=.6087 Pound)
An ambitious bid by brewer-to-leisure group Bass to create Britain's largest brewer by merging with Carlsberg-Tetley  may get snagged by a UK government sensitive about bad publicity ahead of a general election, said analysts on Monday.
Ian Lang, president of the Board of Trade, will be reluctant to wave through a merger that could mean large scale job losses, upsetting the ruling Conservative Party's re-election drive in clear view of an election that must be held by May 1997, they said.  
Although analysts expect Britain's competition authority, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission, to approve the merger -- providing Bass agrees to certain conditions -- the final decision to let the deal go through rests with Lang.
"Clearly there is a very strong element of politics. And it is certainly more subject to politics than the last decision on S&amp;N (Scottish &amp; Newcastle ) for Courage," said Nikko analyst Dermott Carr.  
Former Trade and Industry secretary Michael Heseltine, accredited with nodding through S&amp;N's acquisition of Courage from Australian brewer Foster's 18 months ago without an MMC referral, was operating mid-way through the Conservative Party's term in office and his stance on competition policy is widely viewed by analysts as more laissez-faire than Lang's.
Earlier, Britain's Department of Trade and Industry, said it had decided to refer Bass' proposed merger with Carlsberg-Tetley to the MMC for investigation. An MMC report is due by March 24.  
"I think politics will enter into this. They will be very lucky to get a decision by March 24 and the government will be in no hurry to decide before the election," said Stephen Cox, campaigns manager for the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA).
CAMRA wants to see the deal blocked because government undertakings imposed on S&amp;N for its acquisition of Courage to go ahead have not improved customer choice in the pubs or led to lower beer prices, said Cox.
Analysts however expect the Bass deal to go through in some form, reflecting growing competition in the industry and brewing over-capacity.  
"We are confident that more jobs will be safer at both companies if the merger goes ahead than would otherwise be the case," said a Bass spokeswoman.
Analysts said they expect the MMC to require Bass to sell about 1,000 of its pubs, it currently owns about 4,200, and to cull its brand porfolio. The requirement to sell pubs may include a selective disposal programme in areas of particular geographic dominance.
A combination of these two requirements would reduce Bass' market share to around 35 percent from about 40 percent if the deal was allowed to go ahead unconditionally.
"How many they will be prepared to sell really does depend on what they (Bass) think the EC is going to come out with," said Carr. The European Commission has yet to decide whether British brewers should be allowed to keep the tie -- in other words brewing beer and requiring its own pubs to sell that beer.
"If the EC says they can't keep the tie then the pubs are clearly worth less. So Bass might get a better price for them now if they believe we are at the top end of the pub cycle," added Carr.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6437
The rights to Bre-X Minerals Ltd.'s huge Busang gold discovery in Indonesia appeared to be up in the air Monday despite an Indonesian government statement declaring Canada's Barrick Gold Corp. the winner.
"We still don't have a deal. There are a number of points that are still being negotiated," Bre-X spokesman Steve McAnulty said in a phone interview. "Negotiations are still ongoing."
"I can explain to you that we don't have a signed agreement," Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said.
The Indonesian government told Reuters in Jakarta Monday that the two companies had agreed to split the deposit, with Barrick getting 75 percent and Bre-X keeping 25 percent.
"They have reported they can both accept the government suggestion," of a 75-25 split, said Umar Said, secretary-general of the Mines and Energy Ministry.
"They are also ready to provide a 10 percent stake to the government," he said. "It is good."
Last month, Indonesia asked Bre-X to form a joint venture with Barrick and announce a deal by Dec. 4. When the deadline passed, the two companies said they had reached agreement on some issues but that others were still outstanding.
"We are negotiating toward an end," McAnulty said Monday.
He said legal issues stood in the way of an agreement.
"The whole thing is totally confusing," said gold analyst Michael Fowler of brokerage Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion in Toronto.
"I think these guys are close, but there are probably a few things in the way."
The companies are wrangling over the Busang gold find, which holds at least 57 million ounces of low-cost gold on the island of Borneo.
Neither company would provide details about the terms of a deal, when the terms would be announced, whether shareholders would be able to vote on the agreement or who would be given essential contracts of work granting mining rights to the property.
Bre-X was still hoping the Indonesian government would drop its request for a deal with Barrick and let Bre-X find a partner through an open bidding process, McAnulty said.
"We're getting signals from the consulate, from the embassy, from Mr. Said," he said. "We certainly hope the government allows the process to proceed as originally planned. It would be to the best interest of Bre-X shareholders."
Vancouver, British Columbia-based gold firm Placer Dome Inc. has complained about being shut out of the process despite months of negotiations.
Placer Dome has said it wanted a chance to put forward a bid, but its status was in limbo as it awaited word from the Indonesian government.
Newmont Mining Corp., which had previously shown interest in Busang, said Monday it was preoccupied with a takeover bid for Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp.
Bre-X closed down C10 cents (8 cents) to C$20.05 ($14.80), topping the list of most active stocks on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Barrick fell C15 cents (11.7 cents) to C$40.05 ($29.67) in Toronto and by 12.5 cents to $29.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Taiwanese business leader Kao Ching-yuan has invited one of China's top policymakers on Taiwan to visit the island, but Beijing was tight-lipped on whether to accept the offer.
The invitation was offered to Wang Zhaoguo, director of the Chinese cabinet's Taiwan Affairs Office, in a private capacity, a spokesman for Kao told Reuters.
If Wang accepted and Taiwanese authorities allowed him to visit, he would be the most senior Chinese official to set foot on the island since the end of China's civil war in 1949.
Wang was quoted by the spokesman as saying he would be happy to visit if he had an opportunity, but there was no definite commitment to accept.
"If there was this opportunity, he would be very happy to go (to Taiwan). There is no definite concrete time," the spokesman said, speaking by telephone from the north China city of Tangshan.
In Taipei, a spokesman for the cabinet-level Mainland Affairs Council, which formulates Taiwan's policy towards China, said the council would be happy to see a visit by Wang but noted that procedures must be followed.
The Taiwan Affairs Office declined to comment on the council spokesman's remarks. Earlier, the office denied Taiwanese newspaper reports that Wang had accepted the invitation.
Kao is head of a delegation of nearly 80 Taiwanese businessmen, economists and officials, who arrived in Beijing on Tuesday for a 12-day visit.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin met members of the delegation on Thursday and tried to reassure Taiwanese investors, saying Beijing would not allow political differences to stand in the way of trade and investment.
In his meetings with other Chinese officials, Kao, vice-chairman of President Enterprises, had raised tax and labour problems faced by Taiwanese investors in China, the delegation's spokesman said. President Enterprises is Taiwan's biggest investor in China.
On Wednesday, Kao urged Beijing to resume talks with Taiwan, saying the island's investors would lose confidence in China if political friction impeded ties.
The talks were suspended last year after Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui's landmark trip to the United States.
Beijing has viewed Taiwan as a rebel province since the Nationalist government collapsed on the mainland and fled to the island in 1949. China insists Taiwan is not entitled to official links with other states.
China has stepped up pressure on Taiwan to lift a decades-old ban on direct trade and transport links between the two sides. Last week Beijing unilaterally announced a set of regulations to pave the way for direct links.
Taiwan has banned direct trade, transport and mail links since 1949. Indirect trade and investment has been allowed since the late 1980s, usually through Hong Kong.
Many Taiwanese business executives, who have poured more than $20 billion into China, are eager for direct trade and transport, but Taiwan has been reluctant to remove the curbs, which it views as its last bargaining chip in talks with the communists.
China should take advantage of easing inflation and switch its fund raising efforts to longer term bonds, an official newspaper said on Tuesday.
The Financial News, published by the central bank, said that the reduced interest rates meant that Beijing could lock in long-term funds at cheaper rates.
"Now that we are in a period of lower inflation, this is the time to shift to longer term maturities for government funds," the newspaper said.
China's retail price inflation rate slipped to 6.9 percent for the first seven months of the year, well below a target of 10 percent for the year and down sharply from the 14.8 percent for all of 1995.
That persuaded the central bank to cut bank interest rates once this year, and many analysts expect another rate reduction by the end of the year.
China also felt confident enough to eliminate a hefty subsidy on new bank deposits and government debt of more than three years as of April.
The subsidy, paid on top of the normal interest rate, was aimed at attracting investors during a period of high inflation.
The subsidy hit a peak of 13.24 percent in December of last year, paid in addition to interest of 12.24 for three-year bank deposits.
In 1995, China issued 151 billion yuan ($18.18 billion) in domestic treasury debt, representing 2.6 pct of its gross domestic product, according to the daily.
"The government had to raise interest rates on bonds and to give a subsidy on top of this. As a result, this increased the the cost of raising funds and the burden of repayment," the newspaper said.
In July, Beijing issued its first tranche of 10-year bonds. They paid annual interest of 11.83 percent but with no subsidy, making them a far cheaper way for the central government to raise funds.
"The advantage to the state is that it is simpler to manage," said Xu Hongyuan, an economist at the State Information Centre.
"From the investor's standpoint, the bonds are also quite attractive," he told Reuters.
The newspaper said in addition that China also had too much of its debt concentrated in three to five-year maturities, bunching up repayments and straining government finances unnecessarily.
"If we can rely on a certain amount of 10-year treasury bonds that will ease the problems," the newspaper said.
Colombia's main oil union postponed a decision to launch an indefinite strike in protest against the arrest of 11 members on terrorism charges after top-level talks with the government Sunday night, leaders said.
The 5,700-strong USO union, known for its fiercely nationalistic stance, had been due to set a start date for a crippling stoppage at a general assembly Monday. Industrial action would have begun "soon after" Monday's meeting, union head Hernando Hern ndez said last week.
Hong Kong democracy activists staged a noisy protest on Monday after 134 politicians applied to join a Beijing-controlled assembly to replace the colony's elected legislature in mid-1997.
The rush to join the provisional legislature may cripple the colonial legislature in the twilight of British rule, political analysts said.
As a registration deadline expired on Monday, organisers said 134 people had applied, among them at least 33 members of the present elected Legislative Council (Legco).
Hong Kong reverts to China at midnight next June 30, and Beijing is steaming ahead -- in the face of British objections -- with a plan to replace the elected Legco on handover day with a provisional assembly, to be selected on December 21.
The territory of 6.3 million people now face the prospect of two legislatures during the final six months of British rule -- one elected, legal and active, and one a "selected", shadow chamber preparing post-1997 laws.
The number of seats on Legco and the new body is the same -- 60. Among 33 incumbent lawmakers who have applied are Legco speaker Andrew Wong, whose bid startled the political community last weekend and sparked fears that Legco could disintegrate.
Banner-waving pro-democracy activists on Monday caused chaos in the lobby of the building where registration took place, burning documents and scuffling with security men. "Phoney election", "dictatorship in disguise", protesters shouted.
"Cracks which have already emerged within the Legislative Council over the bid by some members for a seat on the provisional legislature will widen in the next six months," said political commentator Chris Yeung.
"When you have two bodies from which laws emanate at the same time, there's going to be some confusion and dispute," said analyst Michael DeGolyer of Hong Kong's Baptist University.
Seat seekers for the new chamber include at least 11 former lawmakers and 22 former election contestants defeated in 1995 elections won by pro-democracy groups.
Those who lost 1995 elections include prominent pro-Beijing politicians such as Tsang Yok-sing, Peggy Lam and Elsie Tu.
Applicants include at least 47 newcomers to legislative contests, many of whom are members of the hand-picked 150-member Preparatory Committee crafting the post-1997 Hong Kong power structures on behalf of China's communist rulers.
Other newcomers are members of the 400-strong Selection Committee. This is the China-backed panel that will chose the first post-colonial leader on Wednesday, with the winner forecast to be conservative-minded shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa. The committee will also be responsible for selecting the provisional legislative body on December 21.
Poll results issued on Monday by the independent daily Ming Pao showed Hong Kong people split over the body's legitimacy.
The poll showed 32 percent supporting it, 30 percent against, and 38 percent voicing no opinion.
Britain has condemned China's plan as reprehensible and unnecessary and has ruled out all cooperation with the body.
The Democratic Party, the largest in the Legco with 19 seats, is absent from all China-controlled transition bodies.
It has boycotted the selection process, branding the provisional legislature as undemocratic and illegal, and has vowed to challenge its legitimacy in court.
The threat has forced Beijing to consider locating the new legislature in mainland China until the handover.
Parcels giant DHL Worldwide Express, which has had its foot through the door of Eastern and Central Europe since the mid-1980s, was braced to break even on growing regional business by 2000, a senior executive said.
"I would say that certainly by the year 2000 we would be in a breakeven position as a region in its own right," said Peter Davies, regional director of the European rim, during an interview with Reuters on Monday.
Turnover generated from DHL's business in Eastern and Central Europe, including the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), would total US$155 million in 1996 compared with US$110 million in 1995, and hit US$200 million in 1997.
The breakeven comes after years of losses from the late 1980s when the region plunged into massive changes with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the break up of the former Soviet Union.
Davies, responsible for Eastern and Central Europe including the CIS, said DHL was well aware of short-term difficulties but had maintained operations in the region with its sights set on the long term.
"If you go into the market to make a fast buck, then you are in there for the wrong reason...you have to have a long term view to that," Davies said.
"DHL doesn't make a profit as such, but it's okay, we know that. We have a long-term investment plan," he said.
But staying power of the company, which employs some 3,500 people in the region, might just be starting to pay off having captured 75 percent of market share there.
Growing foreign investments by its clients in the more mature economies of Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as well as the CIS have meant more business, Davies said.
And in places like the former Yugoslavia where basic infrastructure and services were not well in place, delivery services were seen as particularly critical, he said.
The company has invested some US$46 million through expanding facilities and aircraft purchases in 1996 for Eastern and Central Europe and topped off another seven percent of the amount in training.
It now operates in 165 locations in the region and would add another 35 stations in 1997, Davies said.
"We have invested much, especially in the countryside and the next stage would be expansion of facilities," he said.
--HONG KONG NEWSROOM (852) 28436441
Home use of the Internet's World Wide Web has more than doubled in the last year, with about 11 percent of U.S. households claiming to have used the Web in the last month, according to a study by PC-Meter.
The market research company said 11 percent of all 98.7 million U.S. households was equivalent to about 11 million homes and was up from 4.4 percent (or 4.3 million) a year ago.
In addition, 13.9 percent of households claimed to have used some type of Internet access service in the last month.
Twenty-five percent of these home Web users now visit shopping sites, PC-Meter's audience rating reports show.
According to PC-Meter's audience rating report, of the cybershoppers, men represented the highest percentage of users. In September, for example, 62.8 percent of Web surfers were men and 37.2 percent were women.
Four basic types of shopping are represented in the top 10 shopping sites; free software downloads, interactive auctions, clubs that sell to members and retail operations.
"These cybershopping statistics suggest that home surfers are increasingly finding value in electronic commerce opportunities offered on the Web," Pamela Smith, a vice president of PC-Meter, said in a statement. "With the holiday season upon us, the greatest growth to date at these sites may well occur during the coming weeks."
Shareware.com, a software service of online publisher C/NET Inc., was the top consumer shopping site on the Web, PC-Meter said, followed by Columbia House Co., which sells music CDs, computer CD-ROMs, videotapes and laser disks; and ZDNet's Software Library of shareware.
Columbia House and ZD Net were tied for the second most popular consumer shopping site. CUC International Inc., which offers discounts on a wide range of consumer goods and services, is the third most popular site and has the highest percentage of women among the top shopping sites.
Other top shopping sites included Amazon.com, at No. 5, which is a cyber-book store with more than 1 million titles to choose from. Surplus Direct was No. 6, with sales of computer hardware and software.
Coming in as the 10th most popular shopping site was Onsale, an auction site for computer hardware, software and consumer electronics. Onsale also led the category in minutes of usage per month, averaging 41.99 minutes per person per month.
PC-Meter said its results on home Internet use came from an October survey of 9,928 personal computer-owning and non-PC-owning homes. The survey is conducted on a quarterly basis. Its audience rating report is done monthly.
PC-Meter LP is a subsidiary of the NPD Group Inc., a privately held company based in Port Washington, N.Y.
Monsanto Co. said on Monday it will spin off its chemicals business in a long-awaited and costly move that will allow the company to focus on its faster-growing agriculture, food and healthcare units.
Between 1,500 and 2,500 jobs will be eliminated in the transaction, causing the company to take a $400 million to $600 million fourth-quarter charge against earnings, it said.
"What they're trying to create is one company that's clearly focused on growth and one that's clearly focused on efficiency," said Smith Barney industry analyst James Wilbur.
St. Louis, Mo.-based Monsanto is a far-flung conglomerate whose varied products include Roundup weed killer, NutraSweet sweetener, carpet fibers, and drugs for treating arthritis and insomnia, as well as genetically engineered corn and soybeans.
Wall Street had long expected the giant company, which has about $8.9 billion in annual sales, to break itself up.
"It was a fait accompli," Wilbur said. "The market likes companies that are less diversifed."
The pared-down Monsanto will focus on its higher-profit margin agricultural, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology businesses, a spokesman said.
The new chemicals business will have to emphasize production efficiencies in a market subject to cyclical sales trends and intense global competition, analysts said.
"After careful consideration, we're convinced these businesses must operate separately to reach their maximum potential and thereby unlock significant value in both," Monsanto Chairman Robert Shapiro said.
Shapiro will head the post-spin-off Monsanto and Executive Vice President Robert Potter, who runs the chemicals business, will run the new company, still unnamed, Monsanto said.
The scope of job cuts coming with the spin-off has not been determined, but more details will likely be available by the end of January, a spokesman said.
Monsanto employs 28,500 people around the world. The anticipated cuts would reduce that headcount by 5 percent to 9 percent, the company said.
The tax-free spin-off proposed would create a new firm by the end of 1997. Current Monsanto shareholders would keep their Monsanto shares and get shares in the new concern as a special dividend, the company said.
Monsanto said its directors approved the spin-off.
The company also said the exact amount of the after-tax charge, which is to cover the costs of job reductions, asset and equipment write-offs, and consolidation of some manufacturing and offices, would be fixed at a later date.
Analysts estimated the one-time charge would total between 80 cents and $1 per share.
Monsanto, which reported 1995 profits of $739 million, or $1.25 a share, is expected to post per-share profits for 1996 of $1.50, according to First Call, which tracks analysts' projections.
Monsanto said in October it was considering options for its chemicals business, which had about $3 billion in 1995 revenues but is growing less rapidly than other units and is subject to more ups and downs.
"Chemicals would hurt the multiple of the company if they held onto it ... because the chemicals growth rate is not as high as the agriculturals growth rate and the earnings are more cyclical," said PaineWebber industry analyst Paul Raman.
The chemicals business -- making acrylic carpet fibers, plastic interlayers for glass, industrial phosphorus compounds and other products -- was shopped around for months, but no buyer was found, in part for tax reasons, analysts said.
Monsanto said the spin-off requires shareholder approval and clearance by government agencies and the Internal Revenue Service for it to be tax-free.
The spin-off is intended to be completed no later than the end of next year. Until then, the two companies will operate separately within Monsanto beginning early next year, it said.
Monsanto's stock slipped 37.5 cents to $40.75 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Ashland Inc. Monday announced a wide-ranging restructuring programme aimed at pumping up profitability in an era of weak refining margins and widespread energy industry consolidation.
The move by the Ashland, Ky.-based energy company appeased a New York investment firm, which withdrew its plan for a proxy fight at the company's annual shareholder meeting next month.
"Ashland's No. 1 priority is to improve returns in its refining and marketing segment," Chief Executive Officer Paul Chellgren said in a statement. "Many of the elements in the plan announced today focus on that priority and are aimed at continuing to build a basis for the long-term competitiveness of this business."
Under the plan, Ashland will restructure its business units to form a petroleum group consisting of its refining businesses, SuperAmerica retail convenience stores and Valvoline motor oil. The group will be led by Ashland executive Fred Brothers, who has run the company's chemicals business.
Ashland also said it will reduce 1997 capital expenditures for Ashland Petroleum to $150 million from $175 million and limit capital expenditures for refining to $100 million. It said the remaining $50 million in Ashland Petroleum's 1997 capital budget will be earmarked for petrochemical and branded marketing expansions.
The company will evaluate alternatives for its exploration unit, with the target of completing an evaluation and any resulting business transaction before the end of 1997.
It will review other options for strategic alliances amid widespread developments in the refining and marketing sector.
Ashland said it will authorise the repurchase of up to 1 million shares of its common stock annually in an attempt to eliminate dilution of its stock.
It also said it was halting a programme to offer up to $100 million in Ashland common stock. To date, about $50 million in common stock has been sold under the programme.
The company said it would evaluate corporate general and administrative expenses.
The actions were viewed as a significant step to convince investors that management will not stand by and watch profits erode.
"The question now is whether they can deliver. I think there will be more to come," said Smith Barney analyst James Falvey.
Ashland recently was pressured by Providence Capital Inc., a New York-based investment firm that nominated a three-person slate for election to the company's board of directors at the Jan. 30 annual meeting.
Providence President Herbert Denton said in an interview that he was satisfied by the plan. Representatives of Ashland met with Providence last week.
"They have addressed all the major issues we raised. We feel the plan is genuine and that they are sincere about defining a new era at Ashland," he said in a telephone interview.
Ashland stock rose 12.5 cents to $46.75 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Analysts noted the stock has risen about $10 per share since September on views that a restructuring would be forthcoming.
They said the restructuring was a good reflection on CEO Chellgren, a company veteran who is set to replace retiring Chairman John Hall.
"I think this is positive. This is a quicker-than-expected start on restructuring," said Fred Leuffer of Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
Ashland Inc has quashed a threatened proxy fight by restucturing its core business, but the independent refiner must still prove its ability to prosper in an industry plagued by poor profit margins.
A series of actions unveiled Monday by Ashland was viewed as a significant step to convince investors that management will not stand by and watch profits erode.
"The question now is whether they can deliver. I think there will be more to come," said James Falvey, analyst at Smith Barney.  
Ashland earlier announced a series of steps aimed at enhancing profitability. They included a restructuring of business units, a share buyback program, the evaluation of strategic alternatives for its non-core exploration unit, and a program to evaluate and cut costs.
The Kentucky-based refiner has recently been pressured by a New York investment firm that had nominated a three-person slate for election to the company's board of directors at the January 30 annual meeting.
In announcing the restructuring on Monday, Ashland also announced Providence Capital Inc had withdrawn its slate.  
"They have addressed all the major issues we raised. We feel the plan is genuine and that they are sincere about defining a new era at Ashland," Herbert Denton, president of Providence Capital, told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Denton said representatives of Ashland met with Providence last week. Ashland also recently has met with institutional investors.
Although shares of Ashland showed little reaction to Monday's plan, analysts noted the stock has risen about $10 per share since September on views of a restructuring. The stock was trading unchanged at 46-5/8 in afternoon trading.  
Analysts widely expect Ashland to sell the exploration unit and participate in widespread consolidation taking place throughout the industry. The company did not disclose any cost-cutting targets or timeframe to implement the actions.
But analysts said the restructuring is a solid reflection on company veteran and chief executive officer Paul Chellgren, who is set to move into the role of chairman to replace retiring John Hall.
"I think this is positive. This is a quicker-than-expected start on restructuring," said Fred Leuffer of Bear Stearns &amp; Co, who values the exploration unit at $425 to $450 million.
Analysts also said that the restructuring is likely to be an evolutionary process.
"It's not going to happen tomorrow. The results will prove themselves over time and if they don't, there will be further initiatives," said Barry Sahgal of Ladenburg, Thalmann &amp; Co.
Meanwhile, Denton said his group will continue to monitor the company's progress.
A two-stage privatisation France's Thomson SA electronics group would allow an early sale of its defence arm and make better economic sense than packaging defence with the loss-making consumer goods unit, stock market analysts said on Monday.
Conservative Prime Minister Alain Juppe said in an interview in the London Financial Times on Monday that the military electronics subsidiary Thomson-CSF could be separated from Thomson Multimedia to allow for a speedy privatisation.
The government was forced last week to drop its preferred choice of selling the whole Thomson group to the Lagardere Groupe conglomerate for a symbolic one franc after the independent Privatisation Commission rejected that option.
A break-up of Thomson runs directly against President Jacques Chirac's initial policy announced on February 22 on restructuring the French defence industry and selling Thomson as one unit.
But analysts said the two-part sale made good sense.
"We should have started with that...get on immediately with restructuring the defence industry," said an analyst at a French brokerage. "We can leave Thomson Multimedia (TMM) until 1998."
A second analyst said, "It's the privatisation of the Multimedia unit which poses the problem. The industrial logic of the merger between Thomson-CSF and Lagardere has not been criticised by anyone."
It was Lagardere's plan to sell TMM to South Korea's Daewoo Electronics, while keeping Thomson-CSF, which led the Privatisation Commission to rule out its bid. The Commission objected to planned technology transfers to Daewoo and the lack of binding commitments by Daewoo to retain jobs in France.
Privatising Thomson-CSF separately would meet the state's main aim of creating a defence electronics national champion, and shelve the problems of Thomson Multimedia. CSF is profitable, virtually clean of debt and 42 percent of the capital is quoted on the Paris bourse.
A source close to Thomson-CSF said the firm has not lost any contracts due to the privatisation uncertainty but it has had to run a corporate advertising campaing in countries where it feels its image has suffered.
Lagardere's Matra missile company still looks the favoured candidate for taking over Thomson's defence unit ahead of a rival offer from engineering group Alcatel Alsthom.
"We get the impression that the government wants Lagardere to get Thomson-CSF," said one analyst at a brokerage.
An analyst at a French bank said, "Insofar as the government has made its preference known and is sticking by it, Lagardere seems to be well placed."
Lagardere has the means to buy Thomson-CSF, without recourse to significant borrowing, one analyst said.
Taking a range of Thomson-CSF share price of between 156 and 200 francs per share, the company has a market capitalisation of between 18 and 24 billion francs ($3.4-4.6 billion), he said.
At the end of 1995 Lagardere had 10 billion francs in tradeable securities, 1.3 billion in free cash and is due to receive three billion in the first half of 1997 when share warrants are due to be exercised. Financial debt was around 8.4 billion.
Lagardere would bring some eight billion francs of Matra's assets in merging with Thomson-CSF, which would reduce the cash it would have to pay. It would however be expected to pay large amounts for goodwill.
Speculation that a vertical integration of missiles, electronics and airframe makers could now be tackled by merging Thomson, Matra, Dassault Aviation and Aerospatiale did not stand up to scrutiny, analysts said.
Combat plane maker Dassault is expected to be absorbed by the larger, civilian-aircraft manufacturer Aerospatiale as part of the defence industry consolidation. But as Aerospatiale is state-owned and the government still wants to privatise Thomson, that course seemed to be excluded, an industry executive said.
Economy ministry officials were not immediately available for comment. ($1=5.244 French Franc)
The $9.5 billion proposed acquisition of Boatmen's Bancshares Inc. by NationsBank Corp. could spark a flurry of other mergers involving Missouri banks, which until last year were protected from outside buyers by state regulations.
"NationsBank just strolled into the Midwest and bagged the biggest banking trophy in the landscape," said Michael Ancell, banking industry analyst at Edward D. Jones &amp; Co. "Whoever wants a big market position in the Midwest has to come in and grab Mercantile or Commerce."
St. Louis-based Mercantile Bancorp Inc., a bank holding company with $18.04 billion in assets, was seen by many analysts as the most attractive Missouri franchise in size after Boatmen's. Kansas City, Mo.-based Commerce Bancshares Inc., with $9.32 billion in assets, also could help a regional bank establish a strong presence in the lower Midwest, analysts added.
"It focuses more attention on Mercantile, Commerce and Roosevelt," said James Weber, analyst at A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons. Roosevelt Financial Group Inc is a $9.33 billion asset-St. Louis based thrift.
"Now ... the most coveted bank out there is Mercantile," Weber said.
Mercantile and Commerce did not return phone calls seeking comment.
Among those seen as having an interest in buying in Missouri are Minneapolis-based First Bank System Inc. and Norwest Corp., Ohio-based KeyCorp and Banc One Corp., and First Chicago NBD Corp. in Illinois.
Representatives of First Bank, Norwest, Banc One and First Chicago said the banks do not comment on rumors of possible mergers or acquisitions. KeyCorp, contacted by phone, would not comment.    With a presence in nine states and $41 billion in assets,
Boatmen's was the prize in Missouri, where barriers to outside acquirers were brought down last year by a federal banking statute.
"Boatmen's was the plum of Missouri and was the plum of the central Midwest," Weber said.
Talk that the Missouri banks were seeking inflated prices from buyers was seen as a reason a deal has not occurred sooner. But NationsBank's bid, representing a premium of 40 percent for Boatmen's stock, was large enough to get the deal done.
"I think Boatmen's was shopping itself, and everybody knew if you wanted to be the winning buyer here, you had to make the bid nobody would beat," Ancell said.
But some analysts cautioned that other targets should not expect as large a premium. They also questioned whether NationsBank can recoup shareholder value with such a large bid for Boatmen's.
"I think initially some stocks will trade up on sympathy, but the wild premium NationsBank put on this deal here, I don't see a lot of other deals being done at this premium," said Michael Durante, analyst at McDonald &amp; Co.
China has missed a golden opportunity to export corn and earn millions of dollars, and now has up to a million tonnes of the grain rotting in silos in the country's north, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
"This year is going to be a major disaster," a Hong Kong trader said.
"All that corn sitting in Dalian is just rotting," he said, adding his estimate that 500,000 to one million tonnes of corn was stored in northern silos in anticipation of exports.
Corn, grown predominantly in China's far northeastern provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning, began moving to northern ports, particularly Dalian, around May, traders said.
"People had geared up for a huge export programme and I think the traditional northeast suppliers anticipated two million tonnes being permissioned for export," a trader in Singapore said.
Concern about national food security and the impact on domestic prices that exports would have in an atmosphere of acute inflationary paranoia had kept China out of the world corn market, trading sources said.
Corn and rice exports were banned in December 1994 after stocks fell to frighteningly low levels in a country where the governing Communist Party bases much of its ruling mandate on availability and affordability of staple foods.
Imports soon began, totalling 5.18 million tonnes in 1995. Corn imports in the first five months of 1996 were 400,000 tonnes, customs figures show.
Expectations began building in April that China's central grain authorities would allow corn exports to take advantage of high world prices and also to ease a local surplus and push up softening domestic prices. Prices had dropped below $120 a tonne in some areas.
Word at the time from traders involved in negotiations with China's central grain reserve on what nature the exports should take -- barter or cash -- was that the corn would be sold mostly to Japan and South Korea at around $180 a tonne.
"There was a stage when they could have got $180, and from the inverse they could have picked up $20 a tonne selling FOB (free on board) and picking up from the U.S. six months later," the Singapore trader said. "They missed a big opportunity."
A few hundred thousand tonnes of Chinese corn was sold to Japan, South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia, or bartered for equipment supplied by Japanese food processing corporations as part of joint-venture deals, industry sources said.
China's government, however, remained adamant that the export ban had not been lifted.
Officials of the newly-established Jilin Grain Group, set up by the Jilin provincial government and opened for business on Monday, told Reuters the province had its biggest stockpile in history, some three million tonnes.
The company was applying for the right to import and export corn "in order to solve the problem of huge corn stockpiles," an official of the company said.
Official figures put 1995 corn production at 101 million tonnes. Output in 1996 has been projected by media to hit 112 million tonnes. Annual demand is 100-115 million tonnes.
Traders and grain industry sources have said China's total corn reserves are up to 30 million tonnes.
Traders said that while owners of the corn stocked at northern ports such as Dalian, Yingkou and Qinghuangdao had lost money on transport, storage and deterioration, the grain was now slowly being absorbed back into the domestic market.
A two-stage privatisation France's Thomson SA electronics group would allow an early sale of its defence arm and make better economic sense than packaging defence with the loss-making consumer goods unit, stock market analysts said on Monday.
Conservative Prime Minister Alain Juppe said in an interview in the London Financial Times on Monday that the military electronics subsidiary Thomson-CSFcould be separated from Thomson Multimedia to allow for a speedy privatisation.
The government was forced last week to drop its preferred choice of selling the whole Thomson group to the Lagardere Groupeconglomerate for a symbolic one franc after the independent Privatisation Commission rejected that option.
A break-up of Thomson runs directly against President Jacques Chirac's initial policy announced on February 22 on restructuring the French defence industry and selling Thomson as one unit.
But analysts said the two-part sale made good sense.
"We should have started with that...get on immediately with restructuring the defence industry," said an analyst at a French brokerage. "We can leave Thomson Multimedia (TMM) until 1998."
A second analyst said, "It's the privatisation of the Multimedia unit which poses the problem. The industrial logic of the merger between Thomson-CSF and Lagardere has not been criticised by anyone."
It was Lagardere's plan to sell TMM to South Korea's Daewoo Electronics, while keeping Thomson-CSF, which led the Privatisation Commission to rule out its bid. The Commission objected to planned technology transfers to Daewoo and the lack of binding commitments by Daewoo to retain jobs in France.
Privatising Thomson-CSF separately would meet the state's main aim of creating a defence electronics national champion, and shelve the problems of Thomson Multimedia. CSF is profitable, virtually clean of debt and 42 percent of the capital is quoted on the Paris bourse.
A source close to Thomson-CSF said the firm has not lost any contracts due to the privatisation uncertainty but it has had to run a corporate advertising campaing in countries where it feels its image has suffered.
Lagardere's Matra missile company still looks the favoured candidate for taking over Thomson's defence unit ahead of a rival offer from engineering group Alcatel Alsthom.
"We get the impression that the government wants Lagardere to get Thomson-CSF," said one analyst at a brokerage.
An analyst at a French bank said, "Insofar as the government has made its preference known and is sticking by it, Lagardere seems to be well placed."
Lagardere has the means to buy Thomson-CSF, without recourse to significant borrowing, one analyst said.
Taking a range of Thomson-CSF share price of between 156 and 200 francs per share, the company has a market capitalisation of between 18 and 24 billion francs ($3.4-4.6 billion), he said.
At the end of 1995 Lagardere had 10 billion francs in tradeable securities, 1.3 billion in free cash and is due to receive three billion in the first half of 1997 when share warrants are due to be exercised. Financial debt was around 8.4 billion.
Lagardere would bring some eight billion francs of Matra's assets in merging with Thomson-CSF, which would reduce the cash it would have to pay. It would however be expected to pay large amounts for goodwill.
Speculation that a vertical integration of missiles, electronics and airframe makers could now be tackled by merging Thomson, Matra, Dassault Aviationand Aerospatiale did not stand up to scrutiny, analysts said.
Combat plane maker Dassault is expected to be absorbed by the larger, civilian-aircraft manufacturer Aerospatiale as part of the defence industry consolidation. But as Aerospatiale is state-owned and the government still wants to privatise Thomson, that course seemed to be excluded, an industry executive said.
Economy ministry officials were not immediately available for comment. ($1=5.244 French Franc)
The recent surge in the Australian dollar and higher jet fuel prices are going to hurt exporters of fresh food in particular, according to Australian Federation of International Forwarders (AFIF) chief executive Brian Lovell.
"With the rise in the fuel price and the higher Australian dollar it is going to affect a lot of exporters," Lovell said.
"The hardest hit are going to be the perishible exports," Lovell said, referring to Australia's fresh food exporters to mainly to Asian countries.
Lovell said exporters, who had entered contracts before the recent freight rate hike, could now be finding they cannot meet their contract obligations due to the extra charge.
"This can really affect things as you might have signed the contract and then suddenly realised that you can't afford to move it," Lovell told Reuters in an interview.
"There are some people that won't be able to get out of a binding contract," Lovell said.
Lovell said many AFIF members were surprised by the freight rate rises by some local air carriers, due to the strength of the local dollar, which had given carriers greater buying power.
"They are buying fuel now more cheaply," Lowell said.
Qantas Airways Ltd has increased its jet fuel surcharge, while Ansett Airlines Ltd has kept its freight rates unchanged.
The Australian dollar has risen four percent to its current level of US$0.8000 over the past five months.
Lovell said that although airfreight volumes had been growing over recent years, there was now a move by exporters to transport perishable goods to Asia by fast ferry.
"I would say in the next 10 years we will see a lot more freight carried by fast ferries, as it is more economical to carry them by ferry than plane as fuel costs are lower."
Lovell said some of the AFIF's 250 members were in dispute with some of the airports over the management of cargo terminals, but this had not impeded freight movement.
AFIF was formed in October following the merger of Australian Dederation of Air Freight Forwarders and the International Forwarders Association of Australia.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Australian fast ferry and transport group Holyman Ltd plans to further expand operations in Europe before moving into the Asian market, managing director Christopher Butcher said in an interview.
"We currently have operations in North America and northern Europe and we can't see any reason why we can't start doing the same thing in the Mediterranean," Butcher told Reuters.
Butcher said Holyman was likely into expand into Asia in the future as the cost structure for operating fast ferries improved in some markets in the region.
"We could be seeing the cost structure changing in Asia, so we are likely to move into some markets in north Asia and south east Asia," Butcher said.
He said that as incomes rose in Asia the amounts charged for ferry services would rise, making it more economical for operators like Holyman to enter the market.
Holyman company secretary Simon Lennon said the company was also looking at fast ferry services from Darwin to Indonesia, but he did not expect a decision to be made for at least a year.
"It is one of a number of projects we are looking at in the region," he said. He said Holyman had looked at particular routes within China and Indonesia, but they did not fit within the company's plans. "I would imagine in a few years we would have something up there (in Asia)," Lennon said.
Holyman shares have had a lacklustre performance in its first year of listing, but since January this year the shares have more than doubled making the stock one of the strongest sharemarket performers over the past year.
The shares listed in April 1994 at A$2.00 and hit a high of A$6.00 on November 11 and are currently trading around A$5.06.
The Sydney-based group was floated on the local bourse in April 1994, as part of a spin-off from TNT Ltd, when the transport group was selling assets to trim its high debts.
"The stock really took some time to get off the ground," Butcher said.
"I think there has been a lot of hard work done over the past year to educate shareholders in what the company is doing and where the company is going as there was a perception out there that we were a mismash of businesses," Butcher said.
Holyman's main activities are its fast ferry services in Australia, across the North Sea between Britain and Europe, New York and in Denmark. It also operates a gas pipeline, bulk commodity handling and freight forwarding businesses.
"There are a number of different projects and businesses, we found there are quite a lot of common threads going through," Butcher said. "I think these operations all have their own place and there are opportunties to expand these further," he said.
Butcher was with TNT for 25 years before taking charge of Holyman when it split from TNT.
Butcher said the group had no plans to raise capital to fund the expected expansion, as the company was well financed.
In October, Holyman bought a fast passenger ferry for A$43 million. He said there was no plans for any immediate purchases of further ferries following the latest purchase.
Butcher said he could not comment on its trading performance or earnings forecasts.
Holyman reported a net profit of A$16.09 million in calendar 1995. The group posted a net profit of A$15.03 million in the six months to June 30, 1996, up from A$6.79 million earlier.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Australian fast ferry and transport group Holyman Ltd plans to further expand operations in Europe before moving into the Asian market, managing director Christopher Butcher said in an interview.
"We currently have operations in North America and northern Europe and we can't see any reason why we can't start doing the same thing in the Mediterranean," Butcher told Reuters.
Butcher said Holyman was likely into expand into Asia in the future as the cost structure for operating fast ferries improved in some markets in the region.  
"We could be seeing the cost structure changing in Asia, so we are likely to move into some markets in north Asia and south east Asia," Butcher said.
He said that as incomes rose in Asia the amounts charged for ferry services would rise, making it more economical for operators like Holyman to enter the market.
Holyman company secretary Simon Lennon said the company was also looking at fast ferry services from Darwin to Indonesia, but he did not expect a decision to be made for at least a year.  
"It is one of a number of projects we are looking at in the region," he said. He said Holyman had looked at particular routes within China and Indonesia, but they did not fit within the company's plans. "I would imagine in a few years we would have something up there (in Asia)," Lennon said.
Holyman shares had a lacklustre showing in its first year of listing, but since January this year the shares have more than doubled to make the stock one of the strongest sharemarket performers over the past year.
The shares listed in April 1994 at A$2.00 and hit a high of A$6.00 on November 11 and are currently trading around A$5.06.  
The Sydney-based group was floated on the local bourse in April 1994, as part of a spin-off from TNT Ltd, when the transport group was selling assets to trim its high debts.
"The stock really took some time to get off the ground," Butcher said.
"I think there has been a lot of hard work done over the past year to educate shareholders in what the company is doing and where the company is going as there was a perception out there that we were a mismash of businesses," Butcher said.  
Holyman's main activities are its fast ferry services in Australia, across the North Sea between Britain and Europe, New York and in Denmark. It also operates a gas pipeline, bulk commodity handling and freight forwarding businesses.
"There are a number of different projects and businesses, we found there are quite a lot of common threads going through," Butcher said. "I think these operations all have their own place and there are opportunties to expand these further," he said.
Butcher worked with TNT for 25 years before taking charge of Holyman when it split from TNT.  
Butcher said the group had no plans to raise capital to fund the expected expansion, as the company was well financed.
In October, Holyman bought a fast passenger ferry for A$43 million. He said there was no plans for any immediate purchases of more ferries.
Butcher said he could not comment on its trading performance or earnings forecasts.
Holyman reported a net profit of A$16.09 million in calendar 1995. The group posted a net profit of A$15.03 million in the six months to June 30, 1996, up from A$6.79 million earlier.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Copper is dribbling out of China in small lots as some Chinese traders try to take advantage of higher world prices to cash in, Far East metals traders said on Monday.
In an otherwise catatonic market, copper movements out of China were the only ripples on a glassy pond.
"The market is very dull, but we are getting some calls from people asking us to help them ship to LME (London Metal Exchange) warehouses in Singapore," said the manager of a state-owned Chinese metals trading firm in Hong Kong.
"They bought the metal a long time ago and pretty cheap, and they want to take advantage of the higher LME market now."
The Chinese selling was in small lots only, nothing more than 1,000 tonnes at a time, as small-time traders sought to liquidate, square the books for year-end and fill their pockets with some much-needed cash, traders said.
The copper market has been abuzz with little more than Chinese copper movements in recent months as the red metal has plied the waters between Shanghai and Singapore and back again.
Movements in stock levels in LME warehouses in Singapore have been attributed to Chinese buying and selling, though movement out has been to Chinese central reserves and in small lots, metals industry sources said.
Copper prices on the LME closed easier on Friday after a half-hearted rally based on some short-covering.
Traders and analysts said early in London's Monday that copper prices were likely to fall towards support at US$2,120 a tonne, after Friday's close of $2,162/64.
In the zinc market, prices could climb to as high as $1,200 a tonne in the first half of 1997, a Hong Kong trader said.
A fall last week in LME zinc stocks had caused some concern, she said, as metal buyers have long been used to picking up material when they need it and at long stable prices.
Figures released on Friday show a drawdown in stocks of 3,050 tonnes -- not an unhealthy level -- to 523,925 tonnes. Some liquidation was seen in Friday trading, with the price ending $17 a tonne easier at $1,048.
News that Spain's Austriana de Zinc liquidated its entire zinc futures position on the LME, announced in mid-November, had been absorbed by the market, she said, adding that the move was important for its value as information rather than its impact.
Nevertheless, she said, "the information scared the market".
"Manufacturers are saying they will be looking at levels of $1,200 in the first quarter, possibly the first half (of 1997)," she said.
China's zinc alloy business was the best bet, she said, adding that she had locked in long-term contracts and was looking forward to a happy and prosperous 1997 as the dye-casting industry in southern China thrived.
Aluminium remained dead, traders said, as Chinese consumers turned to domestic stocks rather than imports to meet their meagre needs.
A narrow differential between LME and Shanghai Metal Exchange prices made imports unworkable and could keep China off the world market until after Chinese New Year in February.
"I'm looking for higher domestic aluminium prices," a trader with a European firm said.
LME aluminium closed at $1,526 a tonne on Friday. The Shanghai December price ended last week at 13,480 yuan ($1,667).
"Imported aluminium must pay nine percent duty and 17 percent VAT (value-added tax) -- though of course people don't pay that. And even without paying it and you just have the price and the premium, they still cannot afford to import," the trader said.
"We are getting no inquiries from extruders," said another source recently returned from China's Hainan Island.
"They are getting domestic material. As they use up domestic stocks, this could lead to a demand next year -- we are praying every day for that," said another trader. "Otherwise, it's going to be a long and quiet holiday."
The latest Hong Kong indications of premium or discount in US$/tonne over LME cash prices on a CIF basis:
				Dec 9			   Dec 2
    COPPER		   100			     100
    ALUMINIUM Western    80-85			   65-75
		  CIS	  N/A			     N/A
    LEAD		     N/A			     130
    ZINC (Chinese)	 N/A			     N/A
	   (Western)	 120-130			 120-130
(US$1 = 8.3 yuan)
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
More than 100 politicians, including half of today's lawmakers, have sought seats on a controversial Beijing-controlled legislature in a move that may cripple Hong Kong's parliament in the twilight of British rule.
Before a registration deadline on Monday, 112 people had applied to join the "provisional legislature", among them 33 members of the present elected Legislative Council (Legco).
Hong Kong reverts to China at midnight next June 30, and Beijing is pressing ahead -- despite British objections -- on setting up a provisional interim legislature to replace the elected Legco at the handover.
The provisional legislature will be selected on December 21.
The territory of 6.3 million people now faces a bizarre prospect of having two legislatures for the final six months of British rule -- one elected, legal and active, and a shadow "selected" chamber vulnerable to courtroom battles.
The number of seats on Legco and the new body is the same -- 60. An official of the China-controlled committee supervising the three-week registration process said 217 people had requested application forms, so there could be more contenders at the last minute.
Among 33 incumbent lawmakers who have applied are Legco speaker Andrew Wong, whose bid startled the political community last weekend and sparked fears that Legco could disintegrate.
"Cracks which have already emerged within the Legislative Council over the bid by some members for a seat on the provisional legislature will widen in the next six months," said political commentator Chris Yeung.
"When you have two bodies from which laws emanate at the same time, there's going to be some confusion and dispute," said analyst Michael DeGolyer of Hong Kong's Baptist University.
Those wanting a seat in the new chamber also include 11 ex-lawmakers and 22 former election contestants defeated in 1995 elections in which pro-democracy groups led by the Democratic Party fared strongly.
The 1995 losers applying for a seat include prominent pro-Beijing politicians such as Tsang Yok-sing, Peggy Lam and Elsie Tu.
Applicants also include 47 newcomers to legislative contests, many of whom are members of the hand-picked 150-member Preparatory Committee crafting the post-1997 Hong Kong power structures on behalf of China's communist rulers.
Other newcomers are members of the 400-strong Selection Committee. This is the China-backed panel that will chose the first post-colonial leader on Wednesday, with the winner forecast to be conservative-minded shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa. The committee will also be responsible for selecting the provisional legislative body on December 21.
An opinion poll published on Monday by the independent daily Ming Pao showed Hong Kong people split over the legitimacy of the provisional legislature.
The poll showed 32 percent supporting the body, 30 percent against, and 38 percent voicing no opinion. A sample of 983 respondents were surveyed by telephone for the poll.
The Democratic Party, the largest in the Legco with 19 seats, are absent from all China-controlled transition bodies.
They have boycotted the selection process, branding the provisional legislature as undemocratic and illegal, and have vowed to challenge its legitimacy in the courts.
The threat has forced Beijing's representatives in Hong Kong to consider locating the interim legislature in mainland China in the transitional period.
Britain has condemned China's plan as reprehensible and unnecessary and has ruled out all cooperation with the body.
China's top securities watchdog on Monday issued new requirements for exchanges and securities houses to strengthen risk control with the aim of cooling its over-heated domestic A share markets.
But the markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen responded with fresh rises in active trading with the A share indices hitting new 1996 highs, and analysts said the warnings would have little impact on the current active trading.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a circular, ordered the two stock exchanges to investigate the risk control mechanisms of their members, the Shanghai Securities News reported.
All securities houses must now display in their business halls warnings about the risks of trading on the stock markets, the circular said.
"The exchanges must quickly organise several groups to investigate the risk control systems of their members and report the results to the CSRC," it said.
It also ordered designated newspapers and magazines to report more on the risks of stock investment.
"Any comments on stock markets must avoid encouraging speculation in order to prevent investors being misguided," it added.
The new instructions follow dramatic surges on the domestic A share markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen this year.
Beijing announced a new positive policy towards the stock markets in April, and since then Shanghai's A share market has risen more than 100 percent and its Shenzhen counterpart more than 250 percent.
By the end of November, China had 20 million retail investors in stocks, double the number at the end of 1995, according to media reports.
"The central government is concerned about surges on the markets which might be out of control," said Yuan Ji, an A share trader with China Guotai Securities. "It hopes the markets will rise more steadily."
The surges apparently have been beyond the expectations of the securities authorities and, to cool the over-heated markets, the CSRC has over the past few weeks issued a series of new rules and punished many brokerages for irregularities.
But, despite the fresh warnings, Shanghai's A share index hit a new 1996 high of 1,312.295 points in the morning session on Monday and its Shenzhen counterpart a high of 486.22.
"Investors believe the authorities do not want to depress the markets, but are just worried over prices rising too fast," said a trader with a major Chinese brokerage. "Because of this belief, the new warnings will have only a slight impact."
The CSRC in the circular also ordered local securities authorities to ensure the securities institutions have displayed the information by January.
China's long-delayed bid to enter the World Trade Organisation will fall under the spotlight when the world's richest nations meet to discuss its application this week, European and U.S. officials said on Monday.
Delegates of the Quad -- the United States, Japan, Canada and the European Union -- will meet for lunch on Tuesday on the sidelines of the first ministerial conference of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in Singapore, the officials said.
The European Union (EU) was trying to bring the United States on board regarding its proposal that China enter the world trade body through a phased accession process, one EU official said.
The United States says Beijing must comply with a "road map" to open its markets and eliminate trade and non-trade barriers before it can win U.S. support for its entry.
China had hoped to culminate its decade-long bid to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade by becoming a founding member of the WTO at its inception two years ago.
Its application foundered on opposition over entry terms, with Beijing maintaining that the price of the road map was too high. Talks continue at a snail's pace in Geneva.
One aim of Tuesday's Quad meeting would be to try to narrow differences between the United States and Europe over terms for China's entry, terms used by Beijing to play one side off against the other, one EU source said.
Outlining his key objectives for the week-long ministerial conference in Singapore, EU Commissioner for Trade Sir Leon Brittan, stressed the need to relaunch in earnest negotiations toward Chinese membership.
"We have the remarkable changes going on in China, as well as a continuing process of economic renewal elsewhere in Asia and in Latin America...Hence the urgent need for WTO enlargement," Brittan told the conference opening session.
Brittan has visited China several times in recent months and has said he received a warm response from Beijing to the phased accession proposal.
In his opening address to the conference, Singapore Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong also backed China's entry in a reference to pending memberships, although he repeated the United States stand that new applicants must meet the necessary criteria.
"Some of these new entrants are significant economic players, like China and Russia, their entry into the WTO would have a positive impact on the rules-based multilateral trading system," Goh said.
Senior Chinese analyst Pei Changhong said last week China was unlikely to concede on its demand to enter the WTO as a developing country and has the patience to hunker down for a long wait to win accession on its terms.
The United States insists that the size of China's economy ranks it as a developed country.
A goal of 1997 entry seemed an ambitious target given the distance between the United States and China on so many issues, but Pei said he hoped to see entry by 1999.
China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said last month that talks with the United States on entry could be wrapped up by mid-1997.
Xujiachong village in central China's Hubei province is nestled in a lush, narrow valley dotted with whitewashed concrete houses, small cabbage patches and freshwater fish ponds.
Ruddy-cheeked children peer out of ill-lit doorways while farmers steer belching tractors along dirt roads lined with orange trees, their verdant branches heavy with the bright, tart fruit.
Xujiachong is much like any other village in China, except that it is scheduled to be wiped off the map by the end of next year.
The village of 2,480 people is just one of hundreds of towns and hamlets that will be flooded by the silt-laden waters of the Yangtze river when the mighty waterway is diverted in November 1997 as part of the giant Three Gorges dam project.
"The total number of people to be relocated under the Three Gorges project, those in submerged areas, is now 840,000," said Wang Jiazhu, deputy general manager of the China Yangtze Three Gorges Project Development Co that is building the mammoth dam.
"We are estimating there could be a million or 1.2 million at most, taking into account the population increase during the 17 years of construction," Wang said.
In Yichang county, site of the future dam, more than 12,300 people have been resettled from the sprawling construction site that flanks the broad, snaking river, said Wang Jiangyi, deputy director of the Yichang Resettlement Bureau.
Evacuation of the giant reservoir area -- to cover more than 600 square km (230 square miles) -- began in 1994 and will involve moving about 100,000 people from Yichang county alone, Wang Jiangyi said.
LEAVING ANCESTRAL HOMELANDS
The fates of hundreds of thousands of households in Hubei and neighbouring Sichuan province were sealed in 1992 when Beijing ended seven decades of debate to give the green light to start work on the gargantuan dam that is to harness the power of the world's third longest river.
Beijing hopes the project, to be completed in the year 2009, will help to power China's economic charge in the 21st century and bring an end to disastrous flooding that has claimed the lives of more than 300,000 people in this century alone.
Officials say they have run into opposition from many local residents unwilling to abandon their ancestral homes and traditional lifestyles.
"There are residents who aren't willing to move," said Wang Kaidong, village chief of Xujiachong, which is just two km (1.2 miles) from the dam site.
"It is understandable that they don't want to leave the homes their families have occupied for generations," she said.
IDEOLOGICAL WEAPONS AND CASH CARROTS
Communist Party officials have tried to combat anti-relocation sentiment by preaching traditional communist values of self-sacrifice while holding out cash and material incentives.
"The magic weapon of our party is ideological work," said Wang Kaidong. "We talk face to face with residents about the resettlement policies and compensation standards."
Of the project's estimated 204 billion yuan ($24.6 billion) cost, about 40 billion yuan has been earmarked to finance the resettlement, said He Gong, a deputy general manager of the Three Gorges Development Co.
Government work teams have fanned out through the countryside offering compensation to residents based on the size and quality of their houses and farms that will be committed to the watery mass grave.
Total compensation for each family ranges from 30,000 to 80,000 yuan and those being resettled to rural areas are to receive parcels of land to build new houses on, Wang Jiangyi of the resettlement bureau said.
Blocks of apartment buildings have sprung up to house those moving into urban areas to be employed in factories or tertiary industries, Wang Jiangyi said.
Relocated families will also enjoy preferential charges for electricity, water and road use and will be allowed to make two moving trips free of charge, Wang Jiangyi said.
If ethical campaigns and cash rewards failed to convince the stubborn to pack up, authorities could still resort to the force of law, Wang said.
"In the resettlement process, if there is any case of... disrupting the public order that prevents the process from proceeding smoothly...it will be dealt with in accordance with punitive public security regulations," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Grand Metropolitan Plc's Burger King is benefitting from a sales recovery in Europe, as well as strong U.S. expansion, and should post $10 billion in sales in the fiscal year ending September 30, Burger King chief executive Robert Lowes said on Tuesday.
"There's no question that my goal for this year is $10 billion, to add a billion in sales," Lowes told Reuters.  
Burger King's worldwide sales through some 8,700 restaurants, including 756 added during the fiscal year, totalled $9 billion in fiscal 1996, or nine percent more than in the previous 12 months.
Burger King also said in a brief year-end summary that its market share rose, touching 16.2 percent of all fast-food hamburger restaurant sales.  The company competes against sector-leading McDonald's Corp and Wendy's International Inc.  
Comparable store sales, meaning those restaurants open at lease one year, rose 2.3 percent worldwide and 2.6 percent in the United States, Lowes said.
Grand Met, the British branded-goods conglomerate, said last week operating profits at Burger King declined in the last fiscal year because of a European beef scare and a planned turndown in sales of restaurants to franchisees.
European sales last spring were hit by an outbreak of a disease attributed to contaminated British beef, especially hurting the company's hamburger outlets in Britain, France and Germany.  
Lowes said Burger King had responded by substituting for beef some chicken and other foods, including a vegetarian hamburger in Britain, to sustain sales in Europe.
"Our sales volumes are back where they were," Lowes said, referring to existing stores.
The executive said new stores to be added, including 75 to be built along British motorways in a deal with Granada Group Plc, would lift sales.
Burger King was also negotiating other deals in Europe similar to the one with Granada, Lowes said.  He gave no details.
-- Miami newsroom, 1-305-374-5013
Chrysler Corp. said Monday it was exploring the possibilty of extending its car production agreement with Mitsubishi Motors Corp., reversing a trend toward cutting ties with the Japanese automaker.
"We are discussing the possibility with them, but we haven't reached any conclusions or any decisions yet," said Chrysler spokeswoman Shawn Williams.
Mitsubishi Motor Manufacturing of America Inc., the company's U.S. subsidiary, currently builds the Dodge Avenger, Chrysler Sebring and Eagle Talon coupes at its assembly plant in Normal, Ill.
That agreement is set to expire after the 1999 model year. Chrysler executives have suggested in the past they want to phase out the automaker's production arrangement with Mitsubishi.
Richard Recchia, chief operating officer of Mitsubishi's U.S. unit, said in October 1995 the future relationship between the two companies would likely be based more on a partnership of components and engineering exchanges instead of complete products.
That is apparently changing.
Automotive News, a weekly trade publication, reported Monday that Chrysler Executive Vice President Thomas Gale took a team of executives to Tokyo in November to meet with Mitsubishi officials about extending the current contract through 2004.
Williams would not comment on the meeting. Gail O'Brien, a spokeswoman for Mitsubishi's Normal plant, said discussions with Chrysler have been continuing, with Mitsubishi considering numerous options.
"Talks have been ongoing, which is totally understandable based on the fact that the contract is coming up," she said. Analysts said it would make sense for Chrysler to continue to use Mitsubishi as a production partner.
Since coupe sales have fallen off in recent years, Chrysler could use its own manufacturing resources to build products where it has a greater competitive edge, such as sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, said Michael Robinet, managing director of CSM Forecasting, an industry consultant in Farmington Hills, Mich.
"This way they can steer development dollars to some of their other platforms," he said.
Moreover, if Chrysler were to move Avenger and Sebring coupe production out of the Normal plant, it would most likely have to convert its plant in Toluca, Mexico, which currently builds the popular Sebring convertible, Neon, Cirrus and Stratus cars, analysts have said.
Robinet also noted that Mitsubishi would benfit from keeping Chrysler as a production customer. Although the Normal plant has capacity to make at least 240,000 vehicles a year, this year it is only expected to make 184,000 units, he said. Next year, the plant is forecast to produce 175,000 units.
In addition to the Avenger, Sebring and Talon, the plant makes the Galant sedan and Eclipse coupes for Mitsubishi.
According to Automotive News, Chrysler's products have accounted for 45 percent of the 177,707 units produced through November.
Chrysler was a 50-50 partner with Mitsubishi when the Normal plant, originally called Diamond Star Motors, was founded in 1985. In 1993, Chrysler sold its ownership stake back to Mitsubishi.
Last year, Chrysler said it would drop the Dodge Stealth sports car from its 1996 model year line up because of slumping sales. Mitsubishi made the Stealth and imported it from Japan. The two companies continue to supply each other with engines.
British bank Barclays Tuesday sold its global custody business to investment bank Morgan Stanley for an undisclosed sum thought to be less than 50 million British pounds ($83 million).
The purchase by Morgan Stanley marks another step in the consolidation of custody business, which is increasingly being seen as a banking activity where "big is beautiful."
The custody business includes traditional safekeeping of securities, increasingly electronically, performance measurement and stock lending.
"Barclays believes global custody has become very much a ... business requiring substantial investment in technology," said Chief Executive Martin Taylor.
A Barclays spokeswoman said the investment in technology would be considerable and that Barclays had decided this would not be an effective investment.
Sir David Walker, chairman of Morgan Stanley Europe, said, "This transaction enables us to offer a broader range of products to our clients. It will strengthen Morgan Stanley's global franchise, particularly in Europe, and will increase our fee-based revenues."
Morgan Stanley said the combined custody assets of the two business would amount to some $390 million, taking it up the global custody ladder dominated by large American players.
The list is headed by Chase Manhattan, which has more than $1 trillion in assets in custody, followed by Citibank, Bank of New York, Deutsche Bank, the largest European player, and State Street Boston.
Barclays had Britain's largest custody business, followed by Lloyds TSB and Royal Bank of Scotland.
Barclays Global Custody employs some 488 staff members worldwide, of which only those in sales, relationship management, marketing and client support will be moving to Morgan Stanley -- considerably fewer than half of the total.
Barclays employee union UNIFI said only 67 of the staff would transfer with the business.
Analysts said Morgan Stanley was thought to have paid less than 50 million pounds ($83 million) for the business, but the banks said a final price would not be fixed for some time. The deal is expected to be closed at the beginnning of April 1997.
Britain's Guardian Royal Exchange said on Tuesday that 350 jobs are to go in a restructuring of the insurance group's area and branch network.
The job losses follow the 48 million pound ($79.2 million) acquisition of Legal &amp; General's commercial insurance operations in July and are the latest in a series of industry moves to cut costs.
Guardian said the restructuring is intended to enhance the level of service and to benefit from the opportunities for economies of scale flowing from the Legal &amp; General acquisition.
But the job losses were attacked on Tuesday as "arbitrary" by the Banking, Insurance and Finance Union (BIFU) who accused Guardian of trying to please industry analysts and the stock market.
The Guardian announcement comes at the end of an unsettling year for insurance company employees with consolidation within the industry leading to sharp cutbacks in staff levels as businesses look to reduce their cost base.
After the merger of Royal Insurance and Sun Alliance in May, it was announced that 5,000 jobs would be cut across the group, the majority in the UK where both had head offices. The merger of United Friendly and Refuge Group in August will lead to the shedding of 1,800 staff over the next two to three years.
The drive for cost savings, economies of scale and critical mass in an increasingly competitive market are widely expected to fuel further consolidation in the industry.
Britain's B.A.T industries is rumoured to be looking for a partner for its financial services arm which includes Eagle Star and Allied Dunbar after press reports that talks with Commercial Union have foundered.
Commercial Union has also been linked with General Accident and Guardian Royal Exchange while Legal &amp; General and Norwich Union have both been the subjects of bid speculation.
"Markets are remaining very competitive and companies are looking for ways to gain an edge," said one industry analyst. "Companies do take the opportunity to tackle their cost base with consolidation."
The insurance industry which is estimated to employ around 200,000 staff directly shed around 40,000 staff between 1991 and 1995.
Including brokers and the self-employed the industry provides work for around 350,000, one third of whose jobs could be at risk over the next couple of years according to BIFU.
Alongside the announcement of the closure of offices in Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow, Leeds, Manchester and Plymouth where there are currently both Guardian and former Legal &amp; General offices, Guardian said offices in five other locations would also shut. These include Bedford, Ealing, west London, Farnham, Surrey, Liverpool and Maidstone, Kent.
The restructuring is expected to be completed by mid-1997. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7721 ($ = 0.605 British Pound)
Ontario Hydro, North America's biggest power utility, said Tuesday that it would take a huge C$2.5 billion ($1.8 billion) charge in 1996 to strengthen its financial structure.
The debt-laden, Ontario government-owned utility said its board of directors also approved a C$600 million ($440 million) charge against 1997 earnings.
The charges, related to accounting and operational changes, come as the ruling Conservative government of Canada's most-populous province ponders the privatisation of the massive utility.
The heavy writedowns add up to an estimated 1996 net loss of C$1.9 billion ($1.4 billion), Ontario Hydro said in a statement. The utility previously forecast net income of between C$600 million ($440 million) and C$625 million ($460 million).
"These decisions are driven by our determination to improve nuclear performance and to make capital and policy decisions that enable us to succeed in the business environment we face," said Ontario Hydro Chief Executive Officer Allan Kupcis.
He said the move will not affect Hydro's ability to pay down its debt, estimated at more than C$30 billion ($22 billion) due to overexpansion.
Ontario Hydro is the continent's largest electricity producer based on installed generating capacity and one of the world's biggest non-sovereign borrowers.
It operates 96 hydro-electric stations, five nuclear plants and six fossil-fuel stations.
But competitive pressures from within and outside Ontario have forced changes on Hydro in recent years.
Last June, a government commission recommended that Ontario Hydro lose its 90-year power monopoly and face competition from private Canadian power suppliers and U.S.-based competitors.
Among the operating decisions made Tuesday, the utility said it will scale back or cancel some projects. The biggest single charge was a C$1.2 billion ($882 million) writedown reflecting the costs of surplus heavy water at its nuclear operations.
The decisions will not affect employee staffing levels at the utility.
Three Canadian financial institutions on Tuesday launched North America's first city-wide, reusable "smart" card designed to replace cash in retail transactions.
The Exact card will be tested under a pilot programme operated by Bank of Montreal, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canada Trust, a unit of CT Financial Services Inc.
The project will be in Kingston, Ontario, city of about 100,000 people located 168 miles (270 km) northeast of Toronto.
About 600 Kingston merchants -- including convenience stores, gas stations and fast food outlets -- signed up with the test project.
The consortium is advertising Exact as an alternative to cash, credit and debit cards. Canadians currently spend between C$40 billion ($29 billion) and C$60 billion ($44 billion) using small coins and bills.
"With Exact you don't have to carry as many small bills and coins, and you'll always have the exact change required to make fast, convenient purchases," said Ron Hodge, vice president of card and direct services for TD Bank.
Canadians are among the biggest users of plastic cards in the world. They carry an estimated 46.2 million debt and credit cards, while use of these cards has jumped 43 percent in the past year, according to a recent industry survey.
"Technology is rapidly changing the face of money, providing faster, easier and more secure transactions. This is only the beginning," said Tim Hockey, vice president of core banking services for Canada Trust.
Exact will be followed in early 1997 by a community-wide test of Mondex, a rival "smart" card system developed in Britain. Exact is based on smart card technology developed by Belgium-based Banksys.
Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce will roll out their Mondex system in Guelph, a city of about 100,000 people 50 miles (80 kms) west of Toronto.
Both systems are similar in that they involve storing money on a computer chip embedded within a card. When a customer uses the card to make a purchase, the value is subtracted from the card.
Customers simply insert their card in the merchant's special, hand-held purchase terminal. The merchant enters the purchase price and the customer presses the "OK" button.
The electronic value of the sale is collected in the purchase terminal and transferred via telephone modem to the merchant's bank account at the end of the day.
Exact users can load, or electronically transfer cash from bank account to the card, up to C$200 ($147) from terminals in the Kingston branches of Bank of Montreal, TD Bank and Canada Trust. Load terminals will also be located in shopping malls, student campuses and selected stores.
The card will initally be offered at no charge. But after an introductory period, each financial institution will set a fee for its own customers.
A big diamond deal between Russia and De Beers has been caught up in political manoeuverings in Moscow. Bickering ministries and a shake-up in the leadership of the Russian diamond industry are conspiring to delay a crucial agreement.
Senior officials on both sides declined on Tuesday to predict when the government would sign the long-delayed deal, whose absence has kept world gem markets on edge.
Russian officials said Moscow and De Beers could head into 1997 with no formal contract signed.
Vladimir Piskunov, head of the Industry Ministry's new precious metals and stones section, said the government had been poring over a draft deal for at least a month since it said it was about ready to sign it and said unspecified pricing issues needed more scrutiny.
"Yes, I will admit that this (a final signing) could drag out into 1997," Piskunov said after a news conference.
De Beers representatives in Moscow declined to comment, with one saying, "As we've told you, when we have something to tell you, we'll tell you."
A spokesman for Almazy Rossii-Sakha, or ARS, De Beers' partner in the deal and Russia's diamond producer and sole legal exporter, said big shake-ups over 1996 in Russia's diamond industry were behind the delay.
"Do you want to know my opinion -- it's that there are some battles going on," said ARS spokesman Valentin Logunov.
De Beers controls about three quarters of the world diamond market and Russia accounts for about 25 percent of all the gems De Beers sells, so delays to the deal have worried gem watchers.
ARS produces nearly all of Russia's diamonds and had sales of $1.38 billion last year.
Piskunov said Moscow was committed to working with De Beers and that leaving the cartel was out of the question -- but he admitted negotiations had dragged on for over a year because of power struggles in Moscow.
"Some have said that we don't need this agreement, but time is playing against us," he said. "There are strict rules on this market and you have to play by them."
Asked if Russia could leave the cartel, he said, "No, no."
Piskunov said the Finance Ministry was struggling with the Industry Ministry for influence over diamond production, while federal budget drafters were arguing with the diamond-rich regions over their cut from taxes paid on exported gems.
De Beers has seen Russia's diamond sector go through turmoil this year, when President Boris Yeltsin disbanded one of its former negotiating partners, the State Committee for Precious Metals and Stones, and sacked its head, Yevgeny Bychkov.
Now Piskunov's department is wrangling with Goskhran, the Finance Ministry arm that will store and export precious metals and stones. Adding to the muddle is a formal investigation by Russia's tax police into ARS finances.
But Piskunov said the probe and Bychkov were not the fundamental reasons for the delay -- raising questions over just what Moscow objects to in the February memorandum.
"There are other processes involved," Piskunov said. "It's a battle of opposing sides. Russia's diamond industry has always been in the hands of several people."
He cast a cloud over an agreement De Beers said on Monday it had signed with Russia's Northern Mining-Geological Company Terra to set up a diamond exploration joint venture.
"We principally insist on the position that foreigners should not mine diamonds in Russia," he said, adding that Russian law prohibited the publication or sale of geological information on diamond deposits in the northern Arkhangelsk region.
Hong Kong has arrived at the brink of history, set to name its first Chinese leader after a century and a half of British colonial rule.
At a gathering to be held under the red flag of communist-ruled China, Hong Kong's rich and mighty will meet on Wednesday to pick the first post-colonial leader -- and the smart money is on shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa.
The vote by a 400-member Chinese-controlled Selection Committee, slammed by critics as a travesty of democracy, was viewed by most in Hong Kong as a foregone conclusion.
A survey by Hong Kong University showed 82.2 percent expected Tung to win, while 43.4 percent of respondents would back him if they had the chance to vote. His nearest rival, Ti Liang Yang, would get 27.9 percent of popular support.
Sovereignty over the territory of 6.3 million people, one of Asia's economic wonders and Britain's last major colony, reverts to China at midnight next June 30 -- 203 days from now.
The winner of Wednesday's vote by the committee will become the chief executive-designate of the Special Administrative Region of China, as Hong Kong will be called from next July 1.
On the eve of the vote a small band of pro-democracy protesters camped overnight outside the conference centre.
Some politicians and diplomats fretted about China-style repression. "The people of Hong Kong cannot trust him (Tung) to protect our rights...I cannot see how he is in a position to say no to Beijing on any important issue," said legislator Martin Lee.
"Unless there is a complete change in the attitude of these candidates the outlook for human rights in Hong Kong is very bad," said Paul Harris, head of Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor.
But the markets, a barometer of Hong Kong's fortunes, trumpeted bullish optimism. Hong Kong stocks rebounded from recent losses to end 198 points up, the index of China-linked H-shares soared to nine-month highs in the largest one-day gain in history, and forecasters predicted a 1997 property boom.
Publicly espousing "consensus" rather than confrontation with China, and collective duties over individual rights, and blessed by a public handshake from President Jiang Zemin in January, 59-year-old Shanghai-born Tung grabbed 206 votes in the first round of voting last month by the committee.
He only needs 201 to win the clincher on Wednesday. Some Hong Kong newspapers were already putting the finishing touches on Tuesday to a slew of Tung-the-victor profiles for Wednesday.
If he wins, he will be greeted by a no-confidence debate presented by lawmaker Emily Lau, one of China's loudest critics, in Hong Kong's Legislative Council (Legco).
Governor Chris Patten has vowed support for the future leader, whoever he is, in the twilight of British rule.
But Tung has not responded to the plege. He has said he will consult Hong Kong's respected civil service on how best to run the territory and ensure a smooth transition.
"Nobody wants the present administration to be turned into a lame duck," Tung said on Monday.
If he wins, Tung will spend the next six months assembling a cabinet of advisers to guide policy. His team is expected to be highly pro-business.
He will also lay the groundwork for a provisional legislature, soon to be picked by the same Selection Committee, to take over from the present elected Legco next July 1.
China Tuesday announced a ban on poultry and poultry products from Missouri and Oklahoma, citing what it said was the outbreak of a deadly disease.
The ban, which took effect Monday, was aimed at preventing damage from the "very destructive" Newcastle disease, an official of the Ministry of Agriculture told Reuters.
Official news reports said the ban was slapped on poultry products from the two states because of five cases of the disease discovered between July and September.
The disease, known as viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease, or VVND, is deadly.
However, Phillip Holloway, representative in Hong Kong and China for the Oklahoma state agriculture department, said he had not heard of any recent cases of VVND in Oklahoma.
"It's a very, very dangerous disease -- the most feared of poultry diseases," he said. "The symptoms are like influenza, and once one bird gets the disease, all the poultry will die."
The poultry industries of Oklahoma and Missouri were far down on the list of top U.S. producers and exporters, Holloway said. "My estimate is that Oklahoma and Missouri account for less than 5 percent of U.S. poultry exports to China."
Arkansas is the country's biggest poultry producer and home of industry giant Tyson Foods Inc.
A source at Tyson's Hong Kong office said VVND was known to exist in China, but this could not be confirmed.
Beijing has also banned all U.S. poultry brought into the country either by mail or hand-carried by travelers, according to the Ministry of Agriculture official.
The last major outbreak of VVND in the United States occurred in California in the 1970s and led to the eradication of the state's entire poultry population, Holloway said.
The United States exports around $500 million of poultry and poultry products a year to China, its biggest market after Russia.
The Chinese quarantine official told Reuters that the action was unrelated to other trade disputes with the United States and there were no plans to delay implementation of the decision.
Beijing and Washington are at odds over textile imports, and that dispute has threatened to spill over into the farm sector. China had threatened to ban some U.S. farm goods -- as well as textiles and alcoholic drinks -- in retaliation for U.S. penalties on textiles purchased from China.
On Sunday, Beijing announced it was delaying for one month implementation of those curbs, which had been scheduled to take effect on Tuesday, because the two sides were planning to hold further talks on the issue.
In October, China announced a ban on imports of poultry from 10 U.S. states because of fears it carried a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza. China and the United States held talks on the issue and the ban did not go into effect.
Intense haggling among the world's trade ministers has brought within grasp a lucrative deal to free the global information technology market, officials said Tuesday, and some said they saw movement on the contentious issue of labour standards.
Big powers, notably the United States and the European Union, said a flurry of talks during the second day of the World Trade Organisation ministerial conference had inched toward a global pact to eliminate tariffs on the $600 billion market for information technology.
Differences appeared to narrow on standards to regulate cheap labour and child workers.
WTO officials want a final declaration at the close of the first ministerial meeting of the fledgling trade body on Friday that would point the WTO down the free trade path into the 21st century.
The EU, along with the United States, Canada and Japan, was making progress to reach consensus on an Information Technology Agreement that would be the crowning achievement of the meeting, EU Trade Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan told reporters.
"We are making a lot of progress," Brittan said after a lunchtime meeting of the four major trading partners to discuss types of products to be covered and timing of tariff reductions.
Acting U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefksy said she concurred with Brittan's comments, but declined to say anything more on the proposed pact to remove tariffs on computer products by 2000.
"There is no question that what the industrialised countries now hope for most here is a deal on information technology products and agreement to work hard for a basic telecommunications pact by February," said one key negotiator.
Signals from negotiators left little doubt the major traders were aiming for agreement as quickly as possible -- perhaps by Wednesday -- to convince Asian trading partners to sign on to the agreement by the end of the meeting on Friday.
Japan's Foreign Minister Yukihiko Ikeda told the conference he hoped "ardently .... that we will have an agreement as the most significant achievement of this ministerial conference in the area of trade liberalisation."
However, several Asian nations voiced reservations, with Malaysia saying the goal of free commerce in infotechnology by the turn of the century was too ambitious.
"We did not come here to discuss the Information Technology Agreement," International Trade and Industry Minister Rafidah Aziz said. "All negotiations should be done in Geneva."
The 128 full delegations from WTO member countries and ministers and officials from nearly 30 others waiting to be admitted heard ringing appeals for progress toward a telecommunications liberalisation pact with a deadline set for mid-February.
Another late-night meeting was called on the issue of labour standards, which has emerged as the most divisive at the meeting.
A Japanese foreign ministry official told reporters that some developing countries that had opposed any mention of the labour issue in the final declaration were taking a more positive position. "A possibility of an agreement has emerged," he said, but addded that some hard-core emerging economies were holding out.
India, Malaysia and Indonesia, for example, have been insisting on no mention at all, arguing that even a neutral phrasing would suggest work conditions were a subject for the WTO.
Aiming to counter lobbying by sceptical Western-based aid groups, the WTO insisted that the poorest nations stood to reap major benefit from the freeing of global commerce.
But WTO officials admitted that Director-General Renato Ruggiero had failed to convince richer members, both industrialised and emerging economies, to remove all tariffs and other barriers affecting goods from the laggard states.
The European Union made little headway in efforts to persuade its main trading partners to jump-start stalled talks on China's bid for WTO admission. But Russia, another major member-in-waiting, expected to win entry by the end of 1997, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Davydov said.
China is unlikely to need to buy rice on the international market to make up for flood damage to domestic crops, Far East traders said on Tuesday.
No China inquiries for rice were reported by traders in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand.
"As far as large demand from the (central grain) reserve, COFCO (China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import Export Corp) or the grain bureaux goes, I rule it out," said a Chinese trader in Shanghai.
China's Futures Herald newspaper, quoting State Grain Reserve Administration statistics, said on Saturday that although flood damage had reduced the early rice harvest and was likely to slow planting of late rice, total output for 1996 was expected to be unaffected.
This is because China has increased the area under rice cultivation this year, the newspaper said, adding that the reduction in the early harvest should not have a significant effect on the total grain harvest due to higher production of other crops, it said.
Rice imports could not go ahead without central government approval, and the process of issuing quotas and licences could take weeks or even months, trading sources said.
The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said at the weekend that flooding in Hunan, one of China's major rice-growing provinces, had prevented farmers from planting rice for the autumn harvest and could force them to depend on food aid until next summer.
"Many farmers lost the season's first crop of rice in the floods and were unable to plant for the second harvest, leaving them dependent on food aid until their next crop, in one year's time," said Thorir Gudmundsson.
"For the second crop, they need to plant in July, and it is now mid-August," he said.
The notion that China might need to import rice to meet demand provided some underlying support to rice futures prices on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) on Monday.
The CBOT September price closed up 5-1/2 U.S. cents per cwt at $10.16.
Chicago rice futures have been underpinned by a recent U.S. report that China bought 20,000 tonnes of Vietnamese white rice for prompt July shipments and that additional purchases were expected.
But very little movement in domestic Chinese rice prices has been seen over the past three months, traders said.
"To be convinced that China will buy some rice, I have to get confirmation from the market -- but so far the market has not done anything, prices are steady," one Asian trader said.
Traders in China quoted domestic prices at 2,200-2,300 yuan ($265-$277) a tonne for low quality long grain rice; 2,600-2,700 yuan ($313-$325) for high quality long grain rice; up to 2,800 yuan ($337) for low quality short grain rice; and 3,000 yuan ($361) for high quality short grain rice.
More than 500 people were killed by the July floods in Hunan alone, with the national death toll from floods and typhoons surpassing 2,700, according to the government.
Applications for rice imports would have to traverse China's multi-layered bureaucracy, trading sources said, though the procedure could be speeded up in times of emergency.
The State Planning Commission (SPC) would issue a national quota, which would then be allocated to provincial SPC offices, which would then distribute the quota to trading companies, trading sources said.
Rice, along with wheat, corn and soybeans, is considered a strategic grain and is thus tightly regulated.
Hunan grows more than 22 percent of China's total early rice crop. Losses to the rice crop in the central province have been estimated at 2.4 million tonnes, accounting for most of the 2.6 million tonnes of Hunan's total grain losses.
About 90 percent of China's early rice crop of 50 million tonnes is grown in Hunan, Guangxi, Guangdong, Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces. China has three rice crops a year.
A Chinese analyst predicted earlier this month that the flooding could cut early rice output by between 10 and 20 percent. This would reduce the total 1996 rice crop by up to four percent for a total output figure of about 180 million tonnes.
China's rice production in 1995 was 179 million tonnes according to figures from the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corp.
The United States envoy in Hong Kong reminded China on Tuesday of its pledge to preserve Hong Kong's "vital" freedoms after Britain hands the colony over to China next year and said Washington would be watching.
Richard Boucher, the U.S. Consul-General in Hong Kong, stopped short of saying what his government could do for the territory if China reneged on its promises after it resumes sovereignty over Hong Kong on July 1.
"As Hong Kong heads towards the transition, the handover has been assuming higher visibility as a factor in U.S. foreign policy... It is one of the key events in Sino-U.S. relations over the next few years," Boucher said.
"We have our voice, interest and participation in China and Hong Kong. It is not a threat...but we want to first see what happens," he said in a speech to the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Hong Kong.
The freewheeling British colony of over a century and a half is promised far-reaching autonomy for 50 years under a Sino-British treaty and related documents.
Quoting the ancient Chinese sage Confucius, Boucher said a measure of whether Hong Kong was well ruled after 1997 would be if "its subjects are content and foreigners are attracted".
He reminded Beijing of its promises made about Hong Kong -- the survival of freedom of speech, press, assembly, movement, travel, religion, among others. "That is a sweeping, vital and unrestricted pledge," he said.
With only 203 days left under the British flag, Hong Kong people are nervous over the future of these freedoms and about China's plan to replace their elected Legislative Council with a provisional legislature, to be chosen this month, overseen by Beijing.
Boucher, echoing criticisms made previously by other senior U.S. diplomats, described the provisional body as "unnecessary and unjustified".
"It is important for Hong Kong to have a legislature that is constitutionally elected."
Boucher refrained from commenting on whether Hong Kong Chinese residents holding U.S. passports would enjoy U.S. consular protection after the handover.
"We do in every case offer consular protection when we can but the question of dual nationality is very complicated...and I can't give details now," he said. Some 37,200 U.S. citizens live in Hong Kong, many of them dual nationals.
Boucher also said China had signalled to Washington that U.S. Navy ships could continue to make recreational port visits to Hong Kong after 1997, although details had to be worked out.
About 70 U.S. warships call in at Hong Kong each year.
Netscape Communications Corp. and five regional Bell phone companies said Tuesday that the five "Baby Bells" will use Netscape's Navigator software as the main browser for their Internet access businesses.
Participating in the deal with Netscape were the Internet access units of Ameritech Corp., Bell Atlantic Corp., BellSouth Corp., Pacific Telesis Group and SBC Communications Inc..
The move was seen as a much-needed boost for Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape, which has seen its popular Navigator software become the secondary browser to Microsoft Corp.'s Internet Explorer as the software behemoth made big inroads with the biggest online services.
"A few months ago, they (Netscape) announced a focus on the corporate marketplace," said Abhishek Gami, an analyst at Nesbitt Burns Securities. "This is a little reminder from them that they are still a big player in the consumer marketplace."
This year, America Online Inc, and CompuServe Inc. have forged deals with Microsoft to make Internet Explorer their primary Internet browser, and in return the online services have gained a spot on the Windows 95 desktop.
"It's a very good boost of confidence for Netscape, which has seen a very large defection from the online services," said Peter Krasilovsky, an analyst at Arlen Communications Inc. in Bethesda, Md.
Netscape shares jumped $3 to $63 in heavy trading on Nasdaq.
Together, the five Bell companies represent a potential market of 72 million consumers and businesses in 26 states, including Washington, D.C., and 15 of the nation's 20 largest markets.
Bell Atlantic said it also has an agreement with Microsoft and that it will begin offering Internet Explorer as an option to its customers in the first quarter of 1997.
Robert Beran, president of Bell Atlantic's Internet unit, told reporters in a conference call that the arrangement gives the phone companies a new way to market their Internet services via Netscape's Web site. He also said it gives new Net users a way to find another Internet service provider.
But analysts also pointed out that the five Baby Bells combined represent under 100,000 Internet users. Ameritech of Chicago still has not yet introduced its Internet service, but said it will do so "reasonably soon."
Pacific Bell, has the biggest Internet access business of the five, with 51,000 members at last count.
The agreement includes a feature to simplify how computer users select an Internet service provider, or ISP.
Users running Netscape Navigator would be able to contact their telephone company's Internet service provider through the new Netscape ISP Select feature on Netscape's Web site, the companies said. After users enter their area code and phone number, they will be presented with a list of service providers with coverage in their particular area.
Netscape said the ISP Select service will allow people to set up a personal Internet account and establish an Internet connection easily and quickly. In addition, phone company customers would have free access to newspaper and magazine content from the Netscape In-Box Direct service, in which personalized publications arrive via e-mail.
Netscape In-Box is a service recently introduced by Netscape to provide information from 40 selected content providers. The company said that since it was launched just a few months ago, its In-Box service has obtained more than 1.5 million subscriptions.
The ISP Select feature will be available on Netscape's Web site, with its Personal Navigator edition that is sold in stores, and will be bundled with some PCs.
They said future plans include offering the ability for ISP Select users who choose their local telephone company's Internet access service to have their Internet fees billed directly to their phone bills.
Sun Microsystems Inc said it will announce on Wednesday an initiative with several industry leaders to standardize its popular Java programming language, which is widely used to develop Internet software.
Sun said International Business Machines Corp, Apple Computer Inc, Netscape Communications Corp, Oracle Corp and others support its initiative, which will guarantee a program is "pure Java."
The move comes amid recent industry talk that the Java language could become fragmented with multiple versions.  
Recently, there have been a spate of reports in the computer industry trade press about fears that Java -- which enables software developers to write an application in the Java language and it will run on any computer system -- will become fragmented like the UNIX operating system.
There are now at least twenty different versions of UNIX, which was developed by AT&amp;T Corp as a high-performance operating system for networked computers, and these multiple versions prevented its widespread industry adoption.
"There has been a great deal of concern about Java splintering," said Jon Kannegaard, vice president of software.  
The brouhaha started at Comdex, the industry's biggest trade show, when Microsoft Corp announced plans to develop several programming interfaces and tools for the Java language. The resulting programs developed with their software programming tools would run only on its Windows software.
"There really will be a tug and we are making sure that you don't give anything up by going with the 100 percent pure solution," Kannegaard said.
Wednesday, Sun will unveil what the "100 Percent Pure Java" initiative, which will provide education for the industry, developer assistance and program certification.  
In the first quarter of 1997, Sun will introduce testing, certification and branding for applications that pass its criteria. Sun, IBM, and Netscape will launch a worldwide educational tour aimed at training software developers to write and test Pure Java applications.
Sun said that it hopes its initiative will help contribute to the momentum that has been building all year around Java, a language it originally developed for interactive television.
"If we think of 1996 as 'the year of Java, the platform,' then we should think of 1997 as 'the year of Java deployment,'" Kannegaard said.  
Sun said that a recent survey by Morgan Stanley indicated that 75 percent of the corporations interviewed were developing, or had plans to develop applications using Java.
Java - which is widely used to develop World Wide Web sites and content on the Internet - lets developers write a program once that will run on any system compatible with Java. Developers can also easily add animation and other features.
Over 200,000 software developers are now writing applications in Java. Sun said it will spend millions of dollars on its 100 Percent Pure Java program. Sun's JavaSoft unit is leading the initiative to standardize Java.
Ford Motor Co. said Tuesday it will move 2,500 sales, marketing and customer service workers out of the Renaissance Centre over the next two years, ending a downtown Detroit office presence that dates back to 1978.
The move was prompted by General Motors Corp.'s May purchase of the landmark complex located on the Detroit River for use as its new headquarters.
Included in the deal announced Tuesday were 26 acres of land next to the centre now used for employee parking that Ford agreed to sell to GM.
No financial terms were released. Robert Rewey, Ford's group vice president of marketing and sales, said at a press conference both sides were "happy" with the deal, which has been completed.
Rewey said Ford, which occupies about 650,000 square feet in two of the center's four towers, had planned to stay in its location through 2005 when its leases expire.
"Our plans got changed -- by the new landlord," he said.
Most of the employees, who work in the Ford, Lincoln-Mercury and Customer Service Divisions, will be relocated to Ford's existing Regent Court building near the automaker's headquarters in Dearborn, Mich.
Rewey said Ford was not pressured by GM to leave early, but decided to do so because it now has space to relocate workers as a result of its ongoing Ford 2000 reorganization.
Rewey declined to say if GM will pay any of Ford's relocation costs. Those expenses could be substantial because Ford's customer assistance and business assistance centres are computer-intensive, technically sophisticated operations.
Employees will begin moving by mid-1997 and should be out of the Renaissance Centre by the end of 1998.
Fearing his urban revitalisation efforts could be hurt, Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer had encouraged Ford to stay in downtown Detroit. But Rewey said Ford could not find a suitable downtown location that would allow it to replicate the efficiencies it now enjoys at the Renaissance Centre.
He noted Ford is encouraging its outside advertising agencies and accounting suppliers to remain in Detroit.
Ford officials took pains Tuesday to point out the company remains committed to the resurgence of Detroit. Included in that is a $25 million renovation of the former Veterans Memorial Building late next summer that will serve as the new UAW-Ford Training Centre.
In October, Ford agreed to pay $40 million for naming rights to a new downtown stadium for the Detroit Lions professional football team.
But some local real estate observers said Ford's decision to leave Detroit does not bode well for the city, which is losing a long-time and prominent tenant. Even though GM will fill the space Ford is vacating, there is still a surplus of class A office space, said Joel Feldman, a broker and market analyst at Friedman Real Estate Group Inc. in Farmington Hills, Mich.
"It lessens the possibility that current vacant class A space will be able to fill up, and the spill-over effect on class B office space is diminished because of this," he said.
Ford's history with the Renaissance Centre dates back to 1972 when then Chairman Henry Ford II announced the Renaissance Centre development project, which was designed to attract business and employment that would lead to the revitalisation of downtown Detroit.
Ford said its 35,000-square-foot World of Ford exhibition and display area at Renaissance Centre will be discontinued in June 1997. Company officials said they are not sure where or how the exhibit, which is popular with marketing and sales workers, will be reconstructed.
Intense haggling among the world's trade ministers brought within grasp a lucrative deal to free the global information technology market and some officials saw movement on the contentious issue of labour standards.
Big powers, notably the United States and the European Union (EU), said on Tuesday a flurry of talks throughout the second day of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) ministerial conference had inched toward a global pact to eliminate tariffs on a $600 billion market for information technology.
Storm-clouds over whether to discuss monopolistic business practices began to disperse. Differences appeared to narrow between North and South as well as North and North on standards to regulate cheap labour and child workers.
WTO officials want a final declaration at the close of the first ministerial meeting of the fledgling trade body on Friday that would point the WTO down the free trade path into the 21st century.
The EU, along with the United States, Canada and Japan, were making progress to reach consensus on an Information Technology Agreement (ITA) that would be the crowning achievement of the meeting, EU Trade Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan told reporters.
"We are making a lot of progress," Brittan said after a lunchtime meeting of the four major trading partners to discuss types of products to be covered and timing of tariff reductions.
Acting U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefksy said she concurred with Brittan's comments, but declined to say anything more on the proposed pact to remove tariffs on computer products by 2000.
Late night talks focused on details, officials said.
"There is no question that what the industrialised countries now hope for most here is a deal on information technology products and agreement to work hard for a basic telecommunications pact by February," said one key negotiator.
Signals from negotiators left little doubt the major traders were aiming for agreement as quickly as possible -- perhaps by Wednesday -- to convince Asian trading partners to sign on to the agreement by the end of the meeting on Friday.
Japan's Foreign Minister Yukihiko Ikeda told the conference he hoped "ardently....that we will have an agreement as the most significant achievement of this ministerial conference in the area of trade liberalisation."
However, several Asian nations voiced reservations, with Malaysia saying the goal of free commerce in infotech by the turn of the century was too ambitious.
"We did not come here to discuss the Information Technology Agreement," international trade and industry minister Rafidah Aziz said. "All negotiations should be done in Geneva."
The 128 full delegations from WTO member countries and ministers and officials from nearly 30 others waiting to be admitted heard ringing appeals for progress to a telecoms liberalisation pact with a deadline set for mid-February.
Another late night meeting was called on the "new issue" of labour standards that has emerged as the most divisive in Singapore.
A Japanese foreign ministry official told reporters that some developing countries who had opposed any mention of the labour issue in the final declaration were taking a more positive position.
"A possibility of an agreement has emerged," he said, but addded that some hard-core emerging economies were holding out.
India, Malaysia and Indonesia, for example, have been insisting on no mention at all, arguing that even a neutral phrasing would suggest work conditions were a subject for the WTO.
Accord was also closer on whether to study competition policy.
"No one was totally opposed to taking up the issue," a Japanese official sid. "We are moving towards a compromise."
Aiming to counter lobbying by sceptical Western-based aid groups, the WTO insisted that the poorest nations stood to reap major benefit from the freeing of global commerce.
But WTO officials admitted that Director-General Renato Ruggiero had failed to convince richer members, both industrialised and emerging economies, to remove all tariffs and other barriers affecting goods from the laggard states.
The European Union made little headway in efforts to persuade its main trading partners to jump-start stalled talks on China's bid for WTO admission.
But Russia, another major member-in-waiting, expected to win entry by the end of 1997, Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Davydov said.
British bank Barclays on Tuesday sold its global custody business to U.S. investment bank Morgan Stanley for an undisclosed sum thought to be below 50 million pounds.
The purchase by Morgan Stanley marks another step in the consolidation of custody business which is increasingly being seen as a banking activity where "big is beautiful".
The custody business includes traditional safekeeping of securities, increasingly electronically, performance measurement and stock lending.
"Barclays believes global custody has become very much a scale business requiring substantial investment in technology," said Chief executive Martin Taylor.
A spokeswoman for Barclays said the investment in technology would be considerable and continuing and that Barclays had decided this would not be an effective investment.
Sir David Walker, chairman of Morgan Stanley Europe, said, "This transaction enables us to offer a broader range of products to our clients. It will strengthen Morgan Stanley's global franchise, particularly in Europe, and will increase our fee-based revenues."
Morgan Stanley said the combined custody assets of the two business would amount to some $390 million, taking it up the global custody ladder which is dominated by large American players.
The list is headed by Chase Manhattan which has over $one trillion of assets in custody, followed by Citibank, Bank of New York, Deutsche Bank, the largest European player, and State Street Boston.
Barclays was Britain's largest player followed by Lloyds TSB and Royal Bank of Scotland.
Barclays Global Custody currently employs some 488 staff worldwide of which only those in sales, relationship management, marketing and client support will be moving to Morgan Stanley -- considerably fewer than half of the total.
Barclays staff trade union UNIFI said only 67 of the staff would transfer with the business.
Analysts said Morgan Stanley is expected to have paid under 50 million sterling for the business but the banks said that a final price would not be fixed for some time. The deal is expected to be closed at the beginnning of April 1997.
Barclays had included custody in its "Businesses in Transition" category. These include "lending and other assets that are unlikely to be of long-term interest to the group or that need significant restructuring."
"Barclays was going to have to pump a lot of cash into the business to make it work and obviously has other uses for its money," said one analyst who declined to be named.
For many computer owners, 1997 will be the year when Internet users will begin to see more features aimed at making the Net more lifelike. But it is also likely to be marked by frequent communications breakdowns caused, in part, by increased demand.
"I wrote a year ago about a collapse, but it's really collapses, getting more frequent, deeper and longer," said Robert Metcalfe, the inventor of the Ethernet computer networking technology and founder of 3Com Corp. who is now vice president of technology at International Data Group, of Boston, Massachusetts.
Metcalfe said the congestion that causes many people to call the World Wide Web the "World Wide Wait" is only one of many problems that can prompt it to crash.
Major outages have been caused by such seemingly minor events as a rodent chewing a power cable or an ampersand typed in the wrong place in software on central Internet devices.
Over the summer, more than six million customers of America Online Inc., the world's largest online computer service, were without service for 19 hours because of a software problem.
In October, a failure at Internet service provider BBN Corp.'s Stanford University Internet facility cut off access for 400 top high tech firms for nearly a day.
MORE OUTAGES AS PROVIDERS TRY TO KEEP UP WITH DEMAND
Experts such as Metcalfe predict similar types of outages next year as telecommunications companies and Internet providers struggle to keep up with demand.
Still, Web surfers are also likely to see many new features in 1997, from advanced graphics to slick ways to communicate with each other using animated characters in virtual chat rooms and high-tech games.
Dozens of companies, including the Germany-based Black Sun Interactive which recently opened an operation in San Francisco, have been developing new virtual worlds based on a technology called Virtual Reality Modelling Language (VRML).
The technology, pronounced "ver-mul", enables creators of multi-player computer games, for example, to design lifelike characters and three-dimensional settings that will exploit new 3-D computer chip designs and speeded-up microprocessors with added multimedia features due next year.
New capabilities include interactive, three-dimensional fly-over cities created by the startup Bigbook, which allows users to swoop down on a building and click on it with a mouse to see who the occupants are.
SHOWDOWN OVER ONLINE PORN LIKELY
But as the Net becomes more lifelike, the prospects for a showdown between regulators and free-speech advocates over the issue of online pornography is likely to increase.
In October, the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation said it was investigating an electronic mail message sent to thousands of Internet users offering child pornography for sale.
The question of whether to regulate the content of the Internet, both within a country's borders and internationally, comes as officials in Washington are pressing for reductions in sexual and violent content in film and television.
One solution offered by some software firms is a device like television's V-chip, which allows parents to restrict access to certain programmes.
Next year will also see new electronic communities in which people can participate as consumer, customer, contributor or even investor in enterprises over the Web.
Although 1997 will not be the year people rush out to do all their shopping on line, it will be a critical year for deploying the technologies that will make electronic commerce widely available in 1998 and 1999, according to analysts.
Michael Parekh, Internet analyst at Goldman Sachs, expects companies to continue using Internet technology both in internal networks, known as Intranets, and to create what are known as Extranets, to reach customers and suppliers.
"The big thing for 1997 is going to be the way users think of the Web goes from a pull paradigm to a push paradigm," he said, referring to the goal of being able to send data to individuals rather than waiting for them to seek it.
In the United States, only about one third of the country's 97 million households have a personal computer, and just 11 percent of U.S. households are estimated to have the modem devices necessary to link them to the Internet.
Faster, 56-kilobit modems are due next year, but analysts expect a battle over standards will slow their spread.
For many computer owners, 1997 will be the year when Internet users will begin to see more features aimed at making the Net more lifelike. But it is also likely to be marked by frequent communications breakdowns caused, in part, by increased demand.
"I wrote a year ago about a collapse, but it's really collapses, getting more frequent, deeper and longer," said Robert Metcalfe, inventor of Ethernet computer networking technology and founder of 3Com Corp who is now vice president of technology at International Data Group of Boston.
Metcalfe said the congestion that causes many people to call the World Wide Web the "World Wide Wait" is only one of many problems that can prompt it to crash. Major outages have been caused by such seemingly minor events as a rodent chewing a power cable or an ampersand typed in the wrong place in software on central Internet devices.
This summer, more than 6 million customers of America Online Inc., the world's largest online computer service, were without service for 19 hours because of a software problem. In October, a failure at Internet service provider BBN Corp's Stanford University Internet facility cut off access for 400 top high tech firms for nearly a day.
Experts such as Metcalfe predict similar types of outages next year as telecommunications companies and Internet providers struggle to keep up with demand. Still, Web surfers are likely to see many new features in 1997, from advanced graphics to slick ways to communicate with each other using animated characters in virtual chat rooms and high-tech games.
Dozens of companies, including Germany-based Black Sun Interactive, which recently opened an operation in San Francisco, have been developing new virtual worlds based on a technology called Virtual Reality Modelling Language (VRML).
The technology, pronounced "ver-mul," enables creators of multi-player computer games, for example, to design lifelike characters and three-dimensional settings that will exploit new 3-D computer chip designs and speeded-up microprocessors with added multimedia features due next year. New capabilities include interactive three-dimensional fly-over cities created by the startup Bigbook, which allows users to swoop down on a building and click on it with a mouse to see who is inside.
But as the Net becomes more lifelike, the prospects for a showdown between regulators and free-speech advocates over the issue of online pornography is likely to increase. In October, the FBI said it was investigating an electronic mail message sent to thousands of Internet users offering child pornography for sale.
The question of whether to regulate the content of the Internet, both within a country's borders and internationally, comes as officials in Washington are pressing for reductions in sexual and violent content in film and television. One solution offered by some software firms is a device like television's V-chip, which allows parents to restrict access to certain programmes.
Next year will also see new electronic communities in which people can participate as consumer, customer, contributor or even investor in enterprises over the Web.
Although 1997 will not be the year people rush out to do all their shopping on line, it will be a critical year for deploying the technologies that will make electronic commerce widely available in 1998 and 1999, according to analysts.
Michael Parekh, Internet analyst at Goldman Sachs, expects companies to continue using Internet technology both in internal networks, known as Intranets, and to create what are known as Extranets, to reach customers and suppliers.
"The big thing for 1997 is going to be the way users think of the Web goes from a pull paradigm to a push paradigm," he said, referring to the goal of being able to send data to individuals rather than waiting for them to seek it.
In the United States, only about one third of the country's 97 million households have a personal computer and just 11 percent of U.S. households are estimated to have the modem devices necessary to link them to the Internet.
Faster, 56-kilobit modems are due next year, but analysts expect a battle over standards will slow their spread.
Australian airlines and tourist operators are worried about Australia's falling share of the growing number of Japanese taking overseas holidays, so much so that they have formed an action plan to halt the decline.
However, details of the action plan are secretly guided by the carriers, Qantas Airways Ltd and Ansett Airlines Ltd, as they don't want to be giving away their strategic plans to the opposition.
Ansett is jointly owned by News Corp Ltd and Air New Zealand Ltd.
Both Qantas and Ansett also face lower yields as they cut air fares on the Japan route to entice holidaymakers down-under.
"We have to arrest the decline as soon as we identify it, because it might be even worse next year and then we are in trouble," said Col Hughes, Qantas' group general manager Pacific and Japan.
Hughes said the decline in Japanese market share is serious for the A$14-billion Australian tourism industry.
"Our share of the Japanese market has fallen 0.5 of a percentage point over the past eight months, so our share of a growing market is falling and that is not good news to have a decline in a market share, because once you have a decline it could have further ramifications," Hughes told Reuters.
Hughes said Australia is losing its share of the Japanese tourist market to Europe and the United States, in particular Hawaii.
He added these markets have raised their promotion budgets to attract Japanese tourists, while Australia was cutting its marketing budget.
The Australian government plans to cut 25 percent of the budget for the industry's top body, the Australian Tourism Commission (ATC).
Fellow Australian airline Ansett Airlines Ltd sees raising capacity on the Japan route as a way to tourist numbers, said Ansett's general manager of international services, Craig Wallace.
"There has been a great expansion of capacity on the European route (from Japan)," Wallace told Reuters.
"What I would like to see is an increase in our (Ansett) capacity, so we can fly daily to Japan, which would create more flexibility with tour operators and may stimulate demand."
Ansett, which started its international operations in September 1994 with its inaugural flight to Osaka, has five flights a week to Japan's second largest city.
Aviation analysts said the entry of Ansett into the Japan market has put more pressure on Qantas' Japanese routes.
"Qantas is hurting as there is more competition on the Japanese route, with Ansett coming in and airfares going down, said Peter Harbison, managing director of aviation consultants Centre for Asia-Pacific Aviation.
Qantas said in August that results from its Japan routes had weakened in the six months to June 1996.
Revenue from the Japanese route fell to A$742.1 million in the year to June 30, 1996, compared with A$797.3 million a year earlier, but the route still generated the most revenue of Qantas' overseas routes. Qantas also flies to the UK and Europe, southeast Asia, northeast Asia and the U.S. and the Pacific.
However, the number of Japanese tourists coming to Australia is still projected to grow, albeit at a slower rate.
The Australian government's Tourism Forecasting Council predicts that 849,000 Japanese tourists will come to Australia in 1996, up from 783,000 in 1995, and this is expected to grow to 923,000 in 1997.
The number of tourists from the rest of Asia, excluding Japan, is forecast to grow to 1.32 million in 1996, from 1.12 million in 1995, and to grow further to 1.53 million in 1997.
"The market is still growing, but it's just not as fast as some people would like it," Harbison said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Australian government-owned airport operator Federal Airports Corp (FAC) sees some life after the planned privatisation of its 22 airports, chief executive officer Barry Murphy said.
"We will eventually go out of existence if all 22 airports that we currently own and operate are eventually disposed of to other owners," Murphy told Reuters in a telephone interview.
"One thing we do hope will survive is our service group called the FAC Airport Consultancy, which we are trying to build into a viable business for the long run," Murphy said.
Murphy said FAC Airport Consultancy would be a group of 20 or 30 people, with specialist knowledge of the aviation industry and property management.
"We hope to sell those services at arm's length to the remaining airports and to new airport owners," Murphy said.
The Australian government has 10 consortiums shortlisted for bidding in its first sale phase which consists of 50-year leases for Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth airports. These are expected to sold in early 1997.
The sale of Adelaide lease was supposed to be part of the first phase, but was delayed for an upgrade.
The remaining 18 airports, including Sydney and the yet-to-be-built second airport at Sydney, will be sold in one or more future tranches.
"By the year 2000 I would imagine that they would have all gone with the possible exception of Sydney, if that is held back because of the Olympics," Murphy said.
Sydney will host the 2000 Olympics Games.
Murphy said the sale timetable was uncertain and the whole process was quite unsettling for FAC staff, as one of the major problems for the corporation was staff leaving to join the various consortiums.
Former FAC chief executive Jack Moffatt is the acting chief executive of Australian Airports Ltd, a consortium bidding for Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth.
In late November, FAC reported a 14.5 percent rise in net profit to A$78.1 million in the year to June 30, 1996 on a 14.6-percent rise in revenue to A$579.3 million, while passenger volume at the airports grew 7.3 percent.
"Passenger growth seems to be holding up quite well and we are expecting a continuing strong performance in that area...and we are hopeful that kind of growth rate will continue," Murphy said.
"We are confident that revenue growth would follow similar growth."
Murphy said the FAC would try to minimise capital expenditure ahead of its privatisation, although Sydney airport may need to be upgraded. "We do expect significant work at Sydney to cater for terminal growth within in the two years."
Sydney is Australia's busiest airport.
Murphy said the FAC had been in talks with freight operators with a view to expand freight facilities at some of Australias airports.
"It is apparent now that freight is attracting more interest," Murphy said. However, he added any expansion of freight facilities was unlikely to involve major sums of money.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Sydney Harbour Casino Holdings Ltd said on Wednesday it wanted to grab a slice of the lucrative Asian high-roller market but first had to win a tax break from the state government.
The company holds a 12-year licence to operate the only legal casino in Australia's largest city but has battled with the New South Wales (NSW) government for the past 15 months to receive the same tax concession that its interstate rivals have.
"I am hopeful, but I can't say anything concrete at this stage," chief executive officer Neil Gamble told Reuters in an interview. The Sydney casino is 26.3 percent owned by U.S. casino operator Showboat Inc.
(Corrects to add Gamble's first name and title)
Without the 10 percent tax concession on winnings made by the high-rollers, the Sydney casino could only watch as rich Asian customers headed to casinos in Melbourne, Perth and on the Gold Coast, Gamble said.
"As far as the high-rollers are concerned it makes us totally uncompetitive." Gamble said the high-rollers also required other incentives to be lured to Sydney.
"The professional gamblers would have about A$100,000 (US$80,000) to spend on a weekend, some would go up to A$2 million or A$3 million, some go up to tens of millions of dollars, but that is rare."
If the Sydney casino could have its big gamblers tax reduced from more than 27 percent at the moment, it would then open a network of marketing offices around Asia, he said, adding to its representation in Hong Kong and Singapore.
So far its revenue from high rollers is negligible as 90 percent of the 12,000 people that visit the casino daily are considered locals.
The Sydney casino currently operates out of temporary premises but plans to open a A$1 billion permanent casino late next year, with 1,500 gaming machines and 200 gaming tables, a hotel and two theatres.
The casino has posted a string of disappointing results since it opened its doors in September 1995, with Gamble largely attributing this to over-optimistic forecasts in the prospectus.
"I think the prospectus forecast was too bullish," Gamble said "I don't think that was a failure of mangement to achieve I think it was an over estimate of reality by any comparsion with other parts of this industry."
The casino floated on the local bourse in June 1995 and forecast an operating profit after tax of A$37 million for the 1995/96 year. It reported an actual net loss of A$4.68 million in the financial year to June 30, 1996.
The recent sell down by international financier and founding shareholder George Soros was not a vote of no-confidence in the group, Gamble said. Soros now has under five percent down from 9.8 percent at the time of the float.
Since Soros sold down his stake in mid-November, Sydney casino shares have fallen eight percent. Sydney Harbour Casino shares closed steady at A$1.78 on Tuesday.
(A$1 = US$0.80 cents)
Sydney Harbour Casino Holdings Ltd, which has posted a string of disappointing results since it listed in June 1995, was too optimistic in its prospectus, chief executive officer Neil Gamble said on Tuesday.
"I think the prospectus forecast was too bullish," Gamble told Reuters in an interview. "I don't think that was a failure of management to achieve, I think it was an over-estimate of reality by any comparsion with other parts of this industry."  
The company is 26.3 percent owned by U.S. casino operator Showboat Inc and holds a 12-year monopoly to operate the only legal casino in Australia's largest city.
It forecast an operating profit after tax of A$37 million for 1995/96 but reported an actual net loss of A$4.68 million in the year to June 30, 1996.
The casino, which opened a temporary site in September 1995 and plans to open a permanent casino late 1997, changed its balance date to December 31 from June 30 earlier this year.
Gamble said the casino was recording a slow and steady improvement in results, but would not give any forecasts.  
In October, the Sydney casino said it expected the December quarter profit to be higher than the September quarter.
"Basically we are building the business and there is not a exponential increase, there is a slow steady improvement in the results each month as we go along," Gamble said
"We think that the actual threshold leaps will start during the first and second quarter of next year," he said.
Gamble said the casino had expected the recent sell down by international financier and founding shareholder George Soros and was not a vote of no-confidence in the group.  
But investors have taken a contrary view, with the share price falling eight percent since Soros sold down his stake in mid-November.
Gamble said he met with George Soros representative on the Sydney casino board Steven Gilbert, who had said that Soros was a trader and would sell out from time to time. Soros now has less than five percent from a high of 9.8 percent at the time of the float.  
"He sold 25 percent of his holding, which is very prudent and was totally expected on our part, he still owns 30 million shares, which is very sizeable and he is still very much involved with the company," Gamble said.
He said the largest shareholder, Showboat, had no plans to sell its stake, despite frequent rumours about a takeover for either the Sydney casino operator or its parent.
"If the price is right, Showboat could sell, but I don't see any sign of that at this point in time," said Gamble, who joined joined the casino in October.  
"If an operator wanted to take over the casino, they would have to take over the management contract and if that were to happen Showboat is the gatekeeper," said Gamble, the former chief executive officer of Australis Media Ltd.
Showboat has the management contract to operate the Sydney casino. Australian newspapers have speculated that the nation's richest man and biggest gambler Kerry Packer was keen on buying the Sydney casino or Showboat.
"The rumour about Packer came around the time I joined. That has dissipated now, but that will probably come around another time," Gamble said.  
Packer lost to the Showboat-Leighton Holdings Ltd consortium in 1994 for the Sydney casino licence.
Gamble said the casino's plans to list on the NASDAQ exchange in the United States was still going to plan and would be listed by April 1997.
"That is progressing satisfactorily, we have had a lot of other priorities on and we expect during the first quarter of calendar 1997 to compete that ADR listing on NASDAQ," he said.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Sydney Harbour Casino Holdings Ltd chief executive officer Neil Gamble said on Tuesday he was still hopeful the casino would receive tax concessions on earnings from big-betting foreign gamblers, despite previous knock-backs.
The casino operator, which holds a 12-year monopoly to operate the only legal casino in Australia's largest city, has battled with the New South Wales state government for the past 15 months to get a similar tax rate to other Australian casinos.
"I am hopeful, but I can't say anything concrete at this stage," Gamble told Reuters in an interview.  
Gamble, appointed to his current position in mid-October after leaving struggling pay television operator Australis Media Ltd, said he had held talks with NSW state premier Bob Carr, who planned to make a decision early 1997.
He said that without the 10 percent tax rate concession it wanted from the government, the Sydney casino was unable to compete in the high-roller market with rival casino operators Crown Ltd, Jupiters Ltd and Burswood.
"As far as the high-rollers are concerned it makes us totally uncompetitive," Gamble said. He added the high-rollers require incentives to be brought into play at a casino.  
"The professional gamblers would have about A$100,000 to spend on a weekend, some would go up to A$2 million or A$3 million, some go up to tens of millions of dollars, but that is rare," the South African-born executive said.
Gamble said the high-roller market was worth about A$200 million to Australian casinos with Sydney's share about A$100 million and A$10 million to the casino's bottom-line profit.
Australia's share of the worldwide high-roller market could potentially be worth about A$300 million, Gamble said.
But he added this would be dependent on Sydney getting the tax concessions its desires.  
If the Sydney casino was to get the go-ahead from the NSW government to lower the tax rate from the current rate of around 27 percent, it would open up a string of marketing offices around Asia to attract high-rollers to its casino, he said.
The Sydney casino currently has marketing offices in Hong Kong and Singapore. But so far the casino's revenue from high rollers is negligible, as 90 percent of the 12,000 people that visit the casino daily are considered locals, Gamble said.
The rest of the casino's patrons are tourists, but Gamble said this part of the market would grow once the A$1 billion permanent casino opens in late 1997.  
The permanent casino would be complete with 350 hotel rooms, 140 serviced apartments, lyric and showroom theatres.
Gamble said the Sydney casino was not in a saturated market. Last week international ratings agency Standard and Poor's said the local casino industry had reached saturation point.
"We are sitting here with a 12-year monopoly in a city of 3.5 million people. With two million tourists a year I don't see it as a particular issue for us," Gamble said.  
Gamble said it was too early for him to comment on whether the Australian gaming industry would have a debt profile similar to that of the U.S. gaming industry, where 80 percent of the gaming company ratings fall within the 'BB' and 'B' category.
U.S.-based Showboat Inc  owns 26.3 percent of Sydney Harbour Casino and has a contract to run the casino, which is located on the outskirts of Sydney's central business district.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
China on Tuesday announced a ban on poultry and poultry products from two U.S. states affected by what it said was the outbreak of a deadly disease.
The ban is already in effect and covers poultry from the states of Missouri and Oklahoma, an official of the Ministry of Agriculture told Reuters by telephone.
It was aimed at preventing damage from the "very destructive" Newcastle disease, the ministry official said.
Official news reports said the ban was slapped on poultry products from the two states because of five cases of the disease discovered between July and September.
A U.S. embassy official in Beijing said he could not immediately confirm that the disease had broken out in the United States this year.
"That is what we are trying to confirm," said the diplomat, who asked not to be identified by name.
Beijing has also banned all U.S. poultry brought into the country either by mail or hand-carried by travellers, according to the Ministry of Agriculture official.
"Travellers are barred from bringing in any poultry goods from the United States," he said. "These products also cannot be brought into China through the mail."
An official of the State Bureau of Animal Plant and Quarantine said the ban went into effect on Monday.
The disease, known as viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease, or VVND, is deadly, Phillip Holloway, representative for Hong Kong and China for the Oklahoma state agriculture department, told Reuters on Tuesday.
"It's a very, very dangerous disease -- the most feared of poultry diseases," he said. "The symptoms are like influenza, and once one bird gets the disease, all the poultry will die."
But Holloway also said he had not heard of any recent cases of VVND in Oklahoma.
The last major outbreak of VVND in the United States occurred in California in the 1970s and led to the eradication of the state's entire poultry population, he said.
The Chinese quarantine official told Reuters that the action was unrelated to other trade disputes with the United States and there were no plans to delay implementation of the decision.
Beijing and Washington are at odds over textile imports, and that dispute has threatened to spill over into the farm sector.
China had threatened to ban some U.S. farm goods -- as well as textiles and alcoholic drinks -- in retaliation for U.S. penalties on textiles purchased from China.
On Sunday, Beijing announced it was delaying for one month implementation of those curbs, which had been scheduled to take effect on Tuesday, because the two sides were planning to hold further talks on the issue.
In October, China announced a ban on imports of poultry from 10 U.S. states because of fears it carried a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza.
China and the United States held talks on the issue and the ban did not go into effect.
China is the second-biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products.
Some 330,000 tonnes of U.S. poultry products -- worth a total of $445 million -- were exported to China through Hong Kong last year, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
Every day 700 tonnes of U.S. chicken feet are transported across the border from Hong Kong into China, the council said.
China's ban on poultry imports from two U.S. states, aimed at preventing a deadly epidemic, is unlikely to be mired in the politics of Beijing's bid to join the World Trade Organisation, a U.S. official said on Tuesday.
"They (Chinese authorities) are very sensitive to any sort of disease profile," Phillip Holloway, representative in Hong Kong and China for the Oklahoma state agriculture department, told Reuters.
China's Ministry of Agriculture and the State Bureau of Animal Plant and Quarantine said the ban on poultry products from Oklahoma and Missouri went into effect on Monday.
Official news reports said the ban was slapped on poultry products from the two rural states because five cases of a deadly poultry flu were discovered between July and September.
China's Xinhua news agency described this virus, known as viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease, or VVND, as an "extremely harmful contagious epidemic disease". Holloway agreed. "It's a very, very dangerous disease -- the most feared of poultry diseases," he said. "The symptoms are like influenza, and once one bird gets the disease, all the poultry will die."
But Holloway said he had not heard of any recent cases of VVND in Oklahoma.
The U.S. embassy in Beijing issued a statement confirming the Chinese ban but would not elaborate. Other U.S. agricultural officials were not immediately available for comment.
Some U.S. industry sources suggested the ban could be connected with Beijing's tit-for-tat trade disputes with Washington and timed to coincide with the first ministerial meeting of the 128-member World Trade Organisation in Singapore.
But Holloway said this was unlikely.
The last major outbreak of VVND in the United States occurred in California in the 1970s and led to the eradication of the state's entire poultry population, he said.
The poultry industries of Oklahoma and Missouri were far down on the list of top U.S. producers and exporters, he said.
"My estimate is that Oklahoma and Missouri account for less than five percent of U.S. poultry exports to China," he said.
Arkansas is the country's biggest poultry producer and home of industry giant Tyson Foods Inc.
A source at Tyson's Hong Kong office said VVND was known to exist in China, but this could not be confirmed.
The United States exports around US$500 million of poultry and poultry products a year to China, its biggest market after Russia.
Canada reported one case of VVND, found in a wild cormorant, in October, a Canadian embassy official in Beijing said.
Under existing protocols between Ottawa and Beijing, Canadian poultry exports to China did not cease, and neither volume nor value was affected, the embassy source said.
But all Canadian poultry must be now certified as not coming from the area where the dead bird was found, he said.
The current Chinese ban comes only weeks after the resolution of another dispute that saw Beijing ban all U.S. poultry imports because of fears they carried highly pathogenic avian influenza or HPAI.
U.S. officials said Chinese authorities had mistaken HPAI for the less-virulent avian influenza, or AI. The United States flew in experts to meet with Chinese officials.
That ban was lifted before being implemented.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Shanghai B shares soared a stunning 12.22 percent on Tuesday as new money poured into the market from both local and foreign investors, and analysts said there was a lot more capital waiting to enter the market.
The Shanghai foreign currency B share index closed at 84.534 points, its highest level since September, 1994, with the supply of shares unable to meet the demand, traders said.
One foreign analyst said he expected the B share index to top the 100-point mark before the end of the year, with investors increasingly confident the authorities had decided to allow local Chinese investors to stay in the B share market.
"What we're seeing is a lot of stir-frying of dog stocks," said Bruce Richardson, chief Shanghai representative for HG Asia, referring to widespread buying of weaker counters.
"There's nothing in the fundamentals to justify this. But this is liquidity-driven and there's a lot more money waiting to come in," he said.
Shenzhen B shares, however, which surged a week or so earlier than Shanghai, fell back 2.15 percent on Tuesday to end at 193.87 on profit-taking after steep rises over the past few sessions, brokers said.
A fundamental factor in the Shanghai B market is a growing feeling that the merger of the foreign currency B shares and the A shares denominated in local currency on China's two stock exchanges will come sooner than expected.
"The spread between the A and B share P/Es is substantial," said a foreign analyst in Shanghai. "The market average for the Shanghai A shares is 55 and 19 for the B shares, so local investors see the opportunity for capital gains in a unification of the two."
A Chinese broker agreed.
"Every day we are seeing so much fresh capital flowing into the market because investors believe the B share prices are going to move closer to their counterparts in the A share market," he said.
The Chinese authorities have so far made no predictions on when the two types of shares might be merged, saying only that the day is a long way off.
John Crossman, general manager of Jardine Fleming in Shanghai, said both locals and foreigners wanted to get into the Shanghai B share market.
"For locals, it is an easy decision when B shares are at a 75 percent discount to A shares," he said. "Foreigners are well disposed to China in 1997 and 1998 and do not want to be net sellers of Chinese equities."
He said the current bull run could continue for another couple of months.
But other analysts said the extreme volatility of the market posed a threat, particularly for holders of many of the weaker and smaller B shares, when the correction begins.
"Locals are not so discriminatory in the shares they buy and have bought shares simply because they were cheap," said one analyst.
"But for some poor-quality shares the prices are not sustainable. As soon as the momentum peters out, there will be a lot of sifting and these shares will go down quickly," the analyst added.
The head of Hong Kong's main pro-democracy group said on Tuesday that the man likely to be the first post-colonial leader after British rule is a pro-China yes-man, and described preparations for the sovereignty change as a disaster.
Martin Lee, head of the Democratic Party, the largest in Hong Kong's legislature, told Reuters in an interview that shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa was indebted to Beijing for a company bail-out years ago and was unlikely to defend democracy.
"The Hong Kong people want and need a defender of the Hong Kong system. What we are getting, it seems, is somebody who is going to be a spokesman of China. That is very unfortunate.
"The people of Hong Kong cannot trust him to protect our rights, not because he is a bad man, he is a nice guy, but I cannot see how he is in a position to say no to Beijing on any important issue," he said.
Tung, 59, is the favourite to win when a 400-member selection committee meets on Wednesday to pick the chief executive of the special administrative region (SAR), as Hong Kong will be called after China takes over next July 1.
Britain is handing the colony back to Beijing under a treaty called the Joint Declaration, which promises to keep Hong Kong's freewheeling capitalist system intact for a further 50 years.
Lee said there was never any doubt Tung would win, echoing a widely held view that the future leader was picked in Beijing.
The lawyer and legislator said Tung owed China a big debt for a Chinese-sponsored financial bailout of his family firm, the Oriental Overseas group, in the 1980s.
"How can he say no to Beijing? Beijing will say 'wait a minute, who bailed you out in the early 1980s and who put you in this position?" Lee said.
But his party would try to work with Tung if he won. "We are quite prepared to cooperate with the chief executive irrespective of the personality involved...we cannot carry on as a political party without dialogue with the chief executive."
Lee denied accusations by Tung that the Democratic Party was anti-China. "That's clearly wrong. We have always supported the return of sovereignty over Hong Kong by the British to the Chinese government on July 1.
"We only criticise China whenever we believe the Joint Declaration has been broken by China...in these circumstances we have a duty to object and to oppose.
"It is far too simplistic and wrong for Mr Tung to say we are anti-China. We are not. China is our country. I have yet to see him side with Hong Kong on any key issue, like the provisional legislature," Lee said.
Britain and the Hong Kong democrats have criticised China's plan to scrap the elected Legislative Council and install a provisional legislature next July as an attempt to kill off democracy.
"It's going to be the most disastrous thing. Once you allow China to set up an effectively appointed legislature when under the Joint Declaration we were promised an elected legislature, you are actually accepting that China can break the Joint Declaration at will. So what other provision is safe?" Lee said.
He said Beijing had made clear the new legislature would pass repressive laws to control the freedom of the press and the freedom of assembly. "There can be little doubt that the rule of law as we know it will not be there any more. Freedoms can no longer be protected."
Lee said 134 candidates nominated for the provisional legislature this week would all take orders from Beijing.
"You would not find even five of them who could be called democrats, by any stretch of the imagination."
China's Shanghai Pudong Development Bank will rent the former headquarters of the Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp, the most impressive building on the city's waterfront Bund, an official said on Tuesday.
The official said a signing ceremony would be held on Thursday in the grand main hall of the building, opened in 1925 as a symbol of the financial might of the British Empire.
"The building will be leased to the Pudong Development Bank," said the official with the Shanghai city government office set up to find new tenants for the old banks and trading houses along the Bund.
The Pudong Development Bank is a state-owned Chinese bank based in the Pudong Development Zone, across the Huangpu River from the Bund. It is majority owned by the bank building's landlord -- the Shanghai city government.
An official with the Pudong bank said they had agreed to a lease of 30 years duration. But he declined to give details of the lease terms for the building, which has a total floorspace of 24,000 square metres.
The general manager of the Bund Buildings Function Transformation Office, Zhou Jinbao, said last month that he believed the property was worth at least $3 per square metre.
A real estate analyst said he felt it was unlikely a Chinese bank, particularly one closely linked to the Shanghai city government, would pay anything close to that figure.
Another businessman said he understood the new tenant would be allowed to sub-let space in the building to other companies.
The lease announcement marks the failure of the city authorities to find a foreign bank that would be willing to lease the most prestigious building in Shanghai.
The building was the main office of the Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Bank until the Communist takeover in 1949 and then served as the Shanghai headquarters of the Chinese Communist Party until last year when the city officials moved into a new building.
Since then, the building, with its huge main banking hall featuring magnificent marble pillars and curved glass roof, has been empty.
The Hongkong Bank had more than two years of discussions with Shanghai city officials on terms for resuming control of their former headquarters but finally announced that they had decided not to proceed with the proposal.
Zhou said the Hongkong Bank had wanted to demolish several buildings behind the main structure and erect a modern office tower.
But he said this proposal would have had an impact on the wider development plans for the area which have not yet been fixed and are unlikely to be finalised for at least another year or two.
A bill to lift a 50-year-old ban on holding companies is expected to be submitted to Japan's next parliament, with passage almost assured because of the government's "Big Bang" deregulation plans, economists say.
They added the financial industry would likely be the one which benefits first as the lifting of the ban would help it restructure and bail out troubled financial institutions.
Political haggling has delayed a decision on the holding companies ban for almost a year.
But the economists said Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto's plans to liberalise the financial markets by 2001 and the proposed breakup of telecommunications giant Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp (NTT) mean the ban will likely be lifted.
A holding company is a firm which controls one or more companies, often by having a majority of shares in them, but does not engage in a specific business.
Big business has demanded for years that the ban be lifted, and the pressure on the government has increased recently as many companies push for deregulation to help them streamline and compete with overseas rivals.
The plan to break up NTT calls for it to be restructured into three firms under a holding company. The firm had resisted the break-up plans until the holding company option was offered.
U.S. occupation forces introduced the ban on holding companies in 1947 to break up powerful conglomerates, known as "zaibatsu", which the United States said had contributed to Japan's war effort.
"I am sure the ban will be relaxed broadly in line with ideas the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) has been advocating," said Hideo Fujiwara, senior research fellow at LTCB Research Institute Inc.
The Fair Trade Commission (FTC), the anti-monopoly watchdog, said last week it plans to submit a bill to end the ban to the session of parliament which starts in January.
Last January, the FTC sought to revise the Anti-Monopoly Law to broadly remove the ban, which had the backing of the pro-business LDP.
But that failed when the Social Democratic Party, a member in the then-ruling coalition, called for only a partial lifting of the ban.
If the bill passes next year, the ban would be relaxed by October 1997 at the earliest.
"Even if the ban is lifted, not many companies will make use of the new corporate structure immediately," Fujiwara said.
Companies such as Sony Corp, Canon Inc and Asahi Glass Co Ltd may be able to establish holding companies as they have already split their operations, he said, but many other companies have not.
But financial companies are in a better position to take advantage of the change, some economists said.
"Holding companies will enable banks, brokers and insurers to break down barriers between them," said Yushiro Ikuyo, a first vice president at Smith Barney International Inc.
Ikuyo said a holding company would make it easy for a big financial institution to streamline its corporate group, in particular, bailing out an ailing financial firm in the group.
The economists also said regional banks which tie up under a holding company would be able to boost their coverage areas.
Some warn, however, that financial holding companies would not solve all the problems facing the financial industry, in which too many deposit-taking institutions are competing.
"Like the recently collapsed Hanwa Bank, not all failed financial institutions can be bailed out through a holding company," LTCB Research's Fujiwara said.
The Finance Ministry last month suspended most operations at Hanwa and will eventually wind down the regional bank, which collapsed under the weight of its problem loans.
China on Tuesday announced a ban on poultry and poultry products from two U.S. states hit by an outbreak of a deadly disease.
The ban is already in effect and covers poultry from the states of Missouri and Oklahoma, an official of the Ministry of Agriculture told Reuters by telephone.
It was aimed at preventing damage from a "very destructive disease", the ministry official said.
The official said, however, that China had banned all U.S. poultry brought into the country either by mail or hand-carried by travellers.
"Travellers are barred from bringing in any poultry goods from the United States," he said. "These products also cannot be brought into China through the mail."
An official of the State Bureau of Animal Plant and Quarantine said the ban went into effect on Monday.
Official news reports said the ban was slapped on poultry products from the two states because of five cases of a deadly poultry flu discovered between July and September.
The quarantine official told Reuters that the action was unrelated to other trade disputes with the United States and there was no plan to delay implementation of the decision.
The virus in question, known as viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease, or VVND, is deadly, Phillip Holloway, representative in Hong Kong and China for the Oklahoma state agriculture department, told Reuters on Tuesday.
"It's a very, very dangerous disease -- the most feared of poultry diseases," he said. "The symptoms are like influenza, and once one bird gets the disease, all the poultry will die."
But Holloway said he had not heard of any recent cases of VVND in Oklahoma.
The last major outbreak of VVND in the United States occurred in California in the 1970s and led to the eradication of the state's entire poultry population, he said.
Beijing and Washington are also at odds over textile imports, and that dispute has threatened to spill over into the farm sector.
China had threatened to ban some U.S. farm goods -- as well as textiles and alcoholic drinks -- in retaliation for U.S. penalties on textiles purchased from China.
On Sunday, Beijing announced it was delaying for one month implementation of those restrictions, which had been scheduled to take effect on Tuesday, because the two sides were planning to hold further talks on the issue.
In October, China announced a ban on imports of poultry from 10 U.S. states because of fears the meat carried a virus called highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI).
China and the United States held talks averting the ban, worth nearly $500 million a year.
China is the second-biggest market in the world, after Russia, for U.S. poultry products.
U.S. poultry exports to China in 1995 totalled 330,000 tonnes transshipped through Hong Kong and were worth $445 million, according to the U.S. Poultry and Egg Export Council.
Every day 700 tonnes of U.S. chicken feet are transported across the border from Hong Kong into China, according to the council.
On the eve of an historic gathering of the elite assembled by China to pick Hong Kong's future leader, the smart money was on Tung Chee-hwa.
Most observers viewed it as a foregone conclusion that the shipping tycoon would emerge the winner after the 400-strong Selection Committee of Hong Kong business titans and pro-China politicians meets on Wednesday to choose the territory's post-colonial chief executive.
Blessed by a personal public handshake from Chinese President Jiang Zemin last January, Tung ran off with 206 votes in the first round of voting last month by the committee, which was chosen under Beijing's close supervision.
Sovereignty over the territory of 6.3 million people, one of Asia's economic wonders and Britain's last major colony, reverts to China at midnight next June 30 -- 203 days from now.
A poll by Hong Kong's Lingnan College showed on Tuesday that 56 percent believed the winner has probably been picked in advance. Only 18 percent believe there will be a real contest.
"I don't think there was ever any doubt that it would be Mr Tung. I've been calling this selection committee the Tung Chee-hwa selection committee," said Martin Lee, head of the Democratic Party, the largest in Hong Kong's legislature.
Lee, whose party is boycotting the selection process, said Tung could not be counted on to preserve Hong Kong's freedoms, human rights and its current moves towards greater democracy.
"The people of Hong Kong cannot trust him to protect our rights, not because he is a bad man, he is a nice guy, but I cannot see how he is in a position to say no to Beijing on any important issue," Lee said.
Some Hong Kong newspapers were already putting the finishing touches on Tuesday to a slew of Tung-the-victor profiles for publication on Wednesday, an industry source said.
If he wins on Wednesday, Tung will be greeted soon by a no-confidence debate presented by lawmaker Emily Lau, one of China's loudest critics.
Colonial Governor Chris Patten has promised his support for the chief executive-designate, whoever it turns out to be, in the twilight months of British rule.
Tung has not responded to the pledge but has said he will engage Hong Kong's respected civil service in dialogue on how best to run the territory and ensure a smooth transition.
"Nobody wants the present administration to be turned into a lame duck," Tung said on Monday.
Two rival candidates -- former Chief Justice Ti Liang Yang and entrepreneur Peter Woo -- are both ranked as outsiders.
An opinion poll by Hong Kong University last week gave Tung 46.7 percent, Yang 28.8 percent and Woo 5.2 percent public backing.
But Tung only began to gain public support in the past month, after Patten's chief civil servant Anson Chan declared she would not run for the job. Tung has never matched the 60 percent-plus popularity ratings which Chan enjoyed.
Assuming he wins, the 59-year-old tycoon will spend the next six months assembling a cabinet of advisers to guide policy after Hong Kong becomes an autonomous Special Administrative Region of China. His team is expected to be highly pro-business, but he has also promised a role for grassoots bodies.
He will also lay the groundwork for a provisional legislature, soon to be picked by the same Selection Committee, to take over from the present elected Legco next July 1.
The leader-in-waiting will face many challenges before and after the handover, with Britain and China locked in disputes on issues ranging from passports, nationality and troop deployments to an anti-subversion law and the disbanding of Legco.
Two years ago, China's second telephone network set out to challenge the powerful Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) and bring competition into the country's a fast-growing market.
But the fledgling network has found it hard to tackle a seasoned competitor -- one that is also the market regulator.
"Are they (the MPT) supposed to be the referee or one of the athletes on the playing field?" asks Li Huifen, president of China United Telecommunications Corp, also known as Unicom.
The arrival of Unicom and the end of the MPT monopoly was initially hailed as a boost for China's long-suffering telephone subscribers, who often had to wait up to a year for a telephone line and endure indifferent service afterwards.
But Unicom has captured only a tiny slice of the market as its entrenched competitor has kept a tight grip on the telecommunications sector, using its regulatory clout to slow the upstart network's advance.
"They have delayed interconnections and won't give us telephone numbers for our customers," Li said in an interview. "We need a telecommunications law to give us a legal framework."
Unicom has 16 shareholders, but the key backers of the project were the ministries of electronics industry (MEI), power and railways.
MANUFACTURING MUSCLE
The MEI has manufacturing muscle with a corps of factories producing telecommunications equipment. But it feared the MPT's equipment-making capacity would eventually squeeze it out of the market unless it had its own captive customers.
The other key partners had private telecommunications networks with spare capacity, while the MPT's public network was heavily overcrowded.
The feud between the rival Chinese government camps was often bitter, sometimes ensnaring foreign companies. Firms that did business with the new network were threatened with blacklisting by the MPT, according to Western industry sources.
Those frictions have eased somewhat in recent months, but it still took an order from the State Council, or cabinet, for promised network interconnections to emerge.
China expects to have more than 60 million telephone lines installed by the end of this year -- adding a breathtaking 10 million in 1996 alone. The total is likely to top 100 million by the turn of the century, still only a small segment of the nation's 1.2 billion people.
MPT says it should not be considered a competitor to Unicom because it has a separate operating arm called China Telecom.
"Since 1993, we have separated policy making from business operations by creating China Telecom," said an MPT spokesman. "The MPT is not both regulating and competing," he said, blaming Unicom's slow progress on its own technical problems.
STRUGGLE TO BE IMPARTIAL
But China Telecom officials concede it is hard to say where one entity ends and the other begins. And even if they can draw the line cleanly, the MPT must struggle to remain impartial.
"They always say they are being fair," said Unicom's Li. "But China Telecom is their own child, and parents are always partial to their own children."
Li took up the Unicom reins in August, becoming the third president in the company's brief history. She was tapped from her job as deputy mayor of the big industrial city of Tianjin to put political clout behind the second network.
The company started with mobile telephone services, first in the big cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Guangzhou, and eventually expanded to 16 cities. It has made its greatest inroads in Shanghai where it has about 20,000 mobile phone customers, Li said.
"In 10 years we will have 10 percent of the fixed line market and 30 percent of the mobile phone market," Li said.
One clear success has been in bringing mobile telephone prices down. They now cost 7,000 to 10,000 yuan ($840 - $1,200) compared with 10,000 to 20,000 yuan before Unicom came along.
Li says Unicom is profitable on its operations, but that excludes heavy investments in building network infrastructure. Despite the cost of putting a network in place, Unicom has one advantage. Foreigners are not permitted to operate telecommunications networks in China, and many foreign firms give Unicom capital in return for a share of the income.
That will at least ease the growing pains for the infant network, analysts said.
China's ban on poultry imports from two U.S. states aimed at preventing a deadly epidemic, is unlikely to be mired in the politics of Beijing's bid to join the World Trade Organisation, a U.S. official said on Tuesday.
"They (Chinese authorities) are very sensitive to any sort of disease profile," Phillip Holloway, representative in Hong Kong and China for the Oklahoma state agriculture department, told Reuters.
China's Ministry of Agriculture has confirmed a ban on poultry products from Oklahoma and Missouri which came into effect on Monday.
Official news reports said the ban was slapped on poultry products from the two states because of five cases of a deadly poultry flu discovered between July and September.
Some U.S. industry sources suggested the ban could be connected with Beijing's tit-for-tat trade disputes with Washington and timed to coincide with the first ministerial meeting of the 128-member World Trade Organisation (WTO) in Singapore.
But Holloway said this was unlikely.
The virus in question, known as viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease, or VVND, is deadly, Holloway said.
"It's a very, very dangerous disease -- the most feared of poultry diseases," he said. "The symptoms are like influenza, and once one bird gets the disease, all the poultry will die."
But Holloway said he had not heard of any recent cases of VVND in Oklahoma.
The last major outbreak of VVND in the United States occurred in California in the 1970s and led to the eradication of the state's entire poultry population, he said.
The poultry industries of Oklahoma and Missouri were far down on the list of top U.S. producers and exporters, he said.
Arkansas is the country's biggest poultry producer and home to Tyson Foods Inc and Simmons.
The United States exports around US$500 million of poultry and poultry products a year to China, its biggest market after Russia and its only market for chicken feet.
Canada reported one case of VVND, found in a wild cormorant, in October, said an official with Canadian embassy in Beijing.
Under existing protocols between Ottawa and Beijing, Canadian poultry exports to China did not cease, and neither volume nor value was affected, the embassy source said.
But all Canadian poultry must be now certified as not coming from the area where the dead bird was found, he said.
The current Chinese ban on U.S. poultry imports comes only weeks after the resolution of a ban Beijing slapped on all poultry products from the United States because of fears over highly pathogenic avian influenza or HPAI.
U.S. officials said Chinese authorities had mistaken HPAI for the less-virulent avian influenza, or AI. The United States flew in experts to meet with Chinese officials.
That ban was lifted before being implemented.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6470
Aon Corp said Wednesday it expects to take a charge against earnings of about $100 million in the 1997 first quarter on its $1.23-billlion purchase of Alexander &amp; Alexander Services Inc.
In an interview, Aon Chief Executive and Chairman Patrick Ryan told Reuters, "There will be consolidating costs that will take place in the first quarter after we close."
Those costs will cause the charge, he said. "It's certainly going to be in the $100 million range ... It's a 'guesstimate' at this stage, but it's in that range."  
Ryan said Aon does not expect additional charges beyond the first quarter.
"But there is a fair value charge that will go into the deal cost," he said. "Space costs and corporate redundancies have yet to be determined ... So it's difficult to say at this point what will be a charge to earnings and what will be an increase in terms of the cost of the deal."
He added, "The charge is in that ($100-million) range. I can't get any more precise at this stage."
Chicago-based Aon would become either the largest or second-largest insurance brokerage through the deal, he said.  
How the post-acquisition Aon will size up against rival giant Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos Inc of New York depends on how the two companies' operations are counted, Ryan said.
"It's not apples to apples," he said.
Asked whether Aon would look to do further acquisitions, Ryan said, "We've got to digest these."
In October Aon completed a $250-million acquisition of Bain Hogg Group Inc from Inchcape Plc.
"The industry has been consolidating. Certainly, people have been expecting us to continue to be a leader in that. And we had announced that we intended to be," Ryan said.  
"We've made what we think to be two strategic and good acquisitions. Now we've got to put them together," he said.
Aon employs about 27,000 people. Alexander &amp; Alexander, based in New York, employs about 12,000.
"We're not in a position to comment on layoffs, other than to say that as you bring businesses together, there obviously will be some redundancies," Ryan said.
"There will be some redundancy at corporate and things like that that we have to identify," he said.
"Will all employees that are currently employed be employed down the road? That generally is not the case. But I don't think you should look for huge layoffs," he said.
Shares in Aon were up 3/8 to 58 and shares in Alexander &amp; Alexander were up 3-1/8 to 17-1/4 at midday on the New York Stock Exchange.
-- Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787
British telecoms regulator OFTEL said on Wednesday it proposed to reduce the regulatory demands which were imposed on telephone group Mercury Communications in the early 1980s.
OFTEL said Mercury, part of the Cable &amp; Wireless Group, would have a simplified licence covering both domestic and international operations and that a number of obligations would be removed to reflect Mercury's non-dominant position, particularly in the domestic market.
Mercury, the second largest telecom company in Britain, has 11.5 percent of the UK's domestic telecommunications market compared with BT's 80 percent share.
Mercury welcomed the changes saying they provided more flexibility on pricing.
"We are delighted. Under the new regime we can be more flexible in our prices. It increases our ability to be more competitive," a Mercury official told Reuters.
OFTEL also said that rapidly developing competition in the international market may allow it to withdraw further still from detailed regulation and it would be keeping the proposals under review, with a view to lifting them in whole or in part as soon as competition was sufficient to allow it to do so.
The proposals include replacing Mercury's existing service obligation for inland services by standard obligations for non-dominant operators and draft licence proposals from the Department of Trade. International service obligations will remain unchanged.
OFTEL is also backing new conditions to ensure fair trading and effective competition in international markets.
In addition, it proposes to replace Mercury's obligation to publish its prices with more flexible conditions. These will be modelled on the price publication requirements in the draft International Facilities Licence, on which the Department of Trade and Industry is currently holding consultations.
The Mercury official described the measures as "another milestone" saying it would help close the gap with its much bigger rival British Telecommunications Plc (BT) as far as marketing of services were concerned.
"This reflects our relative market position and gives us the flexibility to offer our customers truly bespoke solutions, designed to meet their specific business needs. At the end of the day it's the customers who will be the winners," he said.
Analysts said the Oftel move was expected and would probably not lead to substantially more customers: "They can price services for different customers, but it is not a big deal," said James Golob at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
North America's major gold companies are waging an expensive battle to win the coveted title of world's biggest gold producer.
"We want more of the action," said Hugh Leggatt, spokesman for Vancouver-based gold firm Placer Dome Inc..
"We want to be positioned in the industry as a bigger player."
Placer Dome has made a $600 million bid for Highlands Gold Ltd. of Papua New Guinea and the 25 percent of Placer Pacific Ltd. it does not already own.
The company also plans to raise $300 million through a preferred share issue and sell off some small Canadian mine properties.
Placer also has its eye on Bre-X Minerals Ltd., a Calgary, Alberta-based exploration company that discovered what could become one of the world's largest gold mines, the Busang deposit in Indonesia.
But Bre-X is also crucial to Barrick Gold Corp.'s plan to become the world's biggest gold company.
Toronto-based Barrick is already the the world's most profitable gold company and North America's biggest, but it wants to surpass Anglo American Corp. of South Africa Ltd. and Gold Fields of South Africa Ltd. to be the world's largest.
Barrick, through skillful navigation of Indonesian politics, appears to have Bre-X within its grasp.
Jakarta has asked the two companies to form a joint venture to develop the 57 million ounce Busang deposit, with Barrick controlling 75 percent.
Denver-based Newmont Mining Corp. was interested in Bre-X, but when Barrick appeared to gain the upper hand, Newmont turned its sights to Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp., a mid-tier gold company.
Although Newmont seems to have lost out on its stock swap offer for Santa Fe to a $2.3 billion competing bid from Homestake Mining Co., analysts said Newmont was still hunting for other takeover targets.
"This is a very capital-intensive industry and it's becoming a global industry," Newmont spokesman Doug Hock said in an interview.
"In order to compete, you have to have large resources to do that. What you see is the larger players becoming bigger in order to compete."
Homestake is poised to become North America's second-biggest gold company after Barrick if its takeover of Santa Fe succeeds. Major gold companies are under pressure from their shareholders to keep gold reserves growing, analysts said.
"If one company gets big, they have a lot of clout in the marketplace to acquire properties or resources," said gold analyst Michael Fowler of brokerage Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion. With gold bullion prices in a steep decline, the share prices of many mid-tier companies have been hit, making takeovers cheaper, Fowler said.
But he said the current leaders of the gold world, the South Africans, were not caught up in the recent consolidation. "It looks as though they're losing out to the North Americans," said Fowler.
"They're behind the eight-ball really."
North American gold producers were geared to react aggressively and quickly, but the South African producers concentrated more on paying dividends, he said. "They don't move very fast."
Analysts said this round of deal-making was far from over as major gold companies fought it out to satisfy their shareholders' thirst for growth.
Analysts said possible future takeover targets included large mid-tier producers such as Dayton Mining Corp., Battle Mountain Gold Co., Cambior Inc. and Echo Bay Mines Ltd..
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Canada's cash-strapped public broadcaster, the CBC, cut almost 1,000 jobs on Wednesday in an overhaul that might eventually include on-air fund-raising drives and corporate sponsorships.
The Canadian Broadcasting Corp. -- faced with a C$414 million ($304 million) reduction in government subsidies -- told 996 employees that they would be laid off.
The layoff notices were part of a plan announced in September to scrap 2,400 jobs through layoffs, voluntary departures and the elimination of vacant positions.
The CBC also set a target of 800 job cuts in 1998.
"Without doubt, the next few months will be tough. However, we have some sense that on the financial front the worst may be over," Jim Byrd, vice-president of CBC English television, said in a letter to employees.
The CBC, which provides television and radio services in English and French, previously announced other measures to pare more than a third from its C$1.4 billion ($1.02 billion) budget by 1998.
The Canadian government contributed almost two-thirds of the CBC budget in the past, but the government's huge budget deficit forced deep cuts in funding for the CBC.
CBC unions said the job cuts would result in an inferior product for Canadian taxpayers.
"There's shock. There's anger. These are people with hundreds of years of experience who will walk out the door and never come back again," said Dan Oldfield, a spokesman for the Canadian Media Guild, which represents 3,000 CBC workers.
On Monday, the CBC said Radio Canada International -- Canada's voice to the world -- would close next March due to a lack of government funding.
To offset shrinking federal subsidies, CBC President Perrin Beatty said earlier this week that the broadcaster may use on-air fund-raising drives and corporate sponsorships.
Beatty recently visited the New York-based U.S. public television network PBS, which holds fund-raising campaigns and receives millions of dollars from Canadian viewers.
"It's something that is under discussion as we speak," said CBC spoksman Tom Curzon, adding that the CBC board had not made a final decision.
To boost revenues and ratings, the CBC relied on popular U.S. television shows and major sporting events in recent years. But some CBC purists complained that the broadcaster had forsaken its mandate to promote and protect Canada's identity from the U.S. cultural behemoth.
In September, Beatty said CBC would return to its Canadian roots by eliminating U.S. shows from prime time and day-time schedules by 1998.
Canadians will also see more advertisements on the CBC, including commercials for the first time on its flagship evening news show, the National.
Confusion whirled around Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd on Wednesday after Indonesia's mines minister said the government canceled parliamentary approval for Bre-X's application for essential contracts of work for the huge Busang gold deposit.
Bre-X asked that its stock be halted on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning so company officials could explain the news to the public, said Neil Winchester, head of surveillance at the Toronto exchange.
Trading in Bre-X was also halted on Nasdaq.
Bre-X had not yet released a statement late in Wednesday's trading session, leaving investors and analysts trying to assess the impact of the minister's statements on Bre-X's future.
"Does Bre-X lose everything? We have no idea," said gold analyst Catherine Gignac. "It's very unclear. We have to sit tight and wait for news out of Jakarta. There are many options open to the government right now."
Earlier on Wednesday, Indonesian Mines and Energy Minister Ida Bagus Sudjana spoke to reporters about Bre-X's application for vital contracts of work for Busang.
"We cancel it. The Bre-X contract of work will be processed from the beginning," he said.
The secretary-general of the ministry, Umar Said, told a parliamentary commission hearing that the government was checking into representations Bre-X had made to North American regulatory authorities.
"I don't have an answer on what it means," said Vince Borg, a spokesman for Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp .
Barrick has been negotiating with Bre-X to form a joint venture to operate Busang after the Indonesian government asked the two companies to work out a deal.
The move has irked Bre-X shareholders and other major gold companies wanting to bid on the 57 million-ounce deposit, but there were rumors on Wednesday that the Indonesian government may be considering an open bidding process.
"We need to clarify what this means," said Borg. "We are seeking to asctertain from both Bre-X and the Indonesian Mines Ministry what impact the parliamentary committee will have on our negotations."
Barrick, the world's third biggest gold producer, fell C$2.35 ($1.70) to C$38.90 ($28.55) on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday and by 1-7/8 to 28-3/8 on the New York Stock Exchange.
A deal to control Busang would take Barrick a long way to achieving its goal of becoming the world's biggest gold producer.
Bre-X has a contract of work for the Busang I area of the property on the island of Borneo. But Busang I contains only an estimated 2.6 million ounces of gold, with the bulk of the precious metal in two adjoining lots, Busang II and Busang III, for which it needs contracts of work to explore and develop.
The permits were held up this autumn because of an ownership dispute between Bre-X and one of its Indonesian partners over the Busang property.
Ivorian 1996/97 cocoa arrivals stood at 330,000 to 350,000 tonnes by early December, analysts and exporters said.
The December 7 figures were down from an estimated 410,000 tonnes by December 3 last year, but some analysts said a further 50,000 tonnes should be added to this year's figures for comparative purposes as the season had opened three weeks late.
"The gap from last year will widen in December but February and March look good," one exporter said. "Arrivals are down from about 60,000 last week to probably 35-40,000 tonnes by the end of this week."
Ivory Coast opened its 1996/97 marketing season (October-September) three weeks later than usual on October 24 and initially expected a total crop of around 950,000 tonnes.
About 285,000 tonnes had arrived from October 24 to the end of November 1996.
The sources said that 100,000 tonnes had been taken by Ivory Coast's second port, San Pedro, so far this season. Ivory Coast's two main ports usually take less cocoa over the Christmas and New Year holiday periods.
Some cocoa is likely to be delayed by drying problems. Weather analysts point to rain in early December, normally a dry month.
But cocoa inspectors say quality is good, with humidity levels of 8-10 percent and widely ranging bean sizes averaging 90 per 100 grammes -- well within the export standard of 105 per 100 grammes.
"Some people are also concentrating on buying coffee," said one exporter. A large and slightly earlier 1996/97 coffee crop was diverting attention from cocoa, exporters said.
Last year's cocoa crop rose to a December peak before dropping off in January, with arrivals in 1995/96 reaching 668,000 tonnes by the end of December before the season ended with a record 1.2 million tonnes.
An unexpectedly strong mid-crop (April-September) boosted 1995/96 output, so analysts are now scouting cocoa plantations to calculate the prospects for this season as flowering begins.
A different 1996/97 cocoa crop profile is expected.
"The curve is flatter but more sustained than last year. February and March arrivals will push figures up again," said one analyst. Mid-crop forecasts are expected between now and January.
Port stock levels are unknown, but one set of figures showed exports since October 1 totalling 220,000 tonnes. Port sources said large shipments of up to 50,000 tonnes had since left but updated figures were not available.
Large stores of cocoa could be seen around Abidjan and San Pedro ports early this week.
"There is plenty of cocoa around and stocks now just depend on when and if contracts are going to be met," said one port source. "People either have cocoa but no contracts or they simply have not shipped yet."
Some companies said tallying arrivals had been more difficult since personnel changes in the Caistab cocoa marketing agency made by its new managing director, Yves-Marie Koissy.
"Information is thinner on the ground," said one exporter.
Exporters said continuing arguments with the Caistab over some of its official cocoa and coffee marketing and reference shipping freight rates, as well as its new electronic cocoa contract auctioning system, could also have slowed activity.
"The GEPEX (exporters' trade body) is still in discussions (with the Caistab)," said one exporter.
-- Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's Western oil joint ventures are finding it increasingly difficult to export their output in the amounts needed to stay profitable as Moscow seeks to give domestic producers more pipeline space.
Joint ventures (JVs) produce only a trickle of Russia's crude oil -- but they need to export most, if not all, of their output to make money on their investments.
But Russian energy officials, who once courted Western oil majors and independents with promises of tax breaks and priority access to crowded pipelines, are rethinking the terms on which they want foreign oil firms to work in Russia.
"The pipelines are fairly close to capacity, so any increase (in exports) will be at somebody's expense, and that will be the JVs," said Julian Leigh of the Centre for Global Energy Studies in London in a recent interview.
Russia's tightening of access to its export pipelines is a barometer of how willing Moscow will be in coming years to let big-ticket foreign investors with planned, multi-billion dollar production-sharing contracts export the volumes they need.
Most of those projects will require new pipelines -- but in the initial stages, they will probably use existing pipelines.
"It's becoming more and more difficult," said Igor Ishkayev, Moscow-based representative for the Tatex joint venture, whose foreign partner is Global Natural Resources of the United States' unit Texneft Inc.
"The big companies, like LUKoil, can send out as much as they want. Nobody cares about a little joint venture."
About six joint ventures out of the 40 or so producing in Russia and exporting have the right to export 100 percent of their output until September 1997. Others enjoy tax breaks.
Most ventures in theory have priority access.
But in practice, they are often elbowed aside from month to month depending on world oil prices, the amount domestic producers want to export and government export programmes.
When asked about priority access for the ventures, a Transneft official dealing with exports, who declined to be identified, said:
"We don't distinguish between oil produced by our companies and oil produced by joint ventures."
Transneft, the state oil pipeline monopoly, works with so-called designated coordinators -- Russia's large producers, who are often interested in increasing their own exports -- to allocate pipeline space.
"Access to Transneft pipelines is based on personal relationships with the Transneft people," said analyst Zarko Stefanovski of T Hoare &amp; Co in London in a recent interview.
"Russian producers are going to increase the pressure to be given more pipeline capacity -- this will certainly be a problem in the future."
Joint ventures accounted for 4.8 percent of total Russian output last year, or around 250,000 barrels per day (bpd), according to State Statistics Committee figures, up from four percent in 1994. But they account for about 10 percent of Russia's 2.0 million bpd exports.
"Priority access will hardly be continued next year, which will affect the operations of this joint venture very negatively," said Alexander Khrustalov, marketing specialist at KomiArcticOil, whose Western partner is British Gas Plc and which exports about 90 percent of its 25,000 bpd output.
Customs officials, who now make policy as well as implementing it, said in September that some prominent ventures could be liable for millions of dollars in taxes and fines for so-called "excess" exports outside their exemptions.
"The issue is not necessarily the length of the tax exemption, it's the intent behind it," said one top Western oil executive who asked not to be named.
China's B share markets in both Shanghai and Shenzhen slid on Wednesday on profit-taking following huge increases in recent weeks and reports of tighter controls in Shenzhen, analysts said.
The Shanghai B share index fell 3.649 points or 4.55 percent to 80.685 on Wednesday, with volume heavy at 95 million shares worth $44 million.
Shenzhen's B index lost 7.42 points or 3.83 percent to close at 186.45 largely on talk of tighter control over local investors trading B shares, traders said.
"It's a technical correction," said a foreign brokerage analyst in Shanghai. "Shanghai and Shenzhen have risen substantially over the past few weeks, so it's a natural move by investors to take profits."
"Today's loss was a technical correction partly sparked by a fall on the Shenzhen market," said a trader. "The correction is likely to continue for the rest of this week. But market sentiment is good and the index will recover next week."
Shenzhen securities authorities have warned brokerages in the city not to allow local investors to buy B shares unless the money comes from outside the country, an official of the Shenzhen Securities Management Office (SSMO) said on Wednesday.
A senior official at the SSMO said the notice had been released at the urging of the Foreign Exchange Management Bureau under the People's Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory Commission.
"The inflow of fresh money into the market will definitely slow with the implementation of the policy, but many Chinese can still enter the market by some means or other," a broker said.
Brokers in Shanghai said they did not know of any such notice being distributed to brokers in Shanghai. Officials of the central bank and the national regulator in Beijing declined to comment.
"We've heard such reports (about crackdowns) from Shenzhen from time to time," said the Shanghai-based foreign analyst. "Whenever such reports come out, the B shares go down but after a while, speculation resumes again."
In Shanghai, all 42 B shares traded, with 34 down, one flat and seven up. Cheap stocks with poor results led the falls after speculative jumps in the past few days, brokers said.
"Technical charts indicate the market has entered a correction phase and the index is likely to test the 75-point support level," one broker said.
"The market trend mainly depends on the attitude of the securities authorities," he added.
Shanghai Erfangji was the biggest loser, plunging $0.060 or 21.42 percent to $0.220, on volume of 3.8 million shares.
Shanghai Rubber Belt followed, tumbling $0.054 or 17.08 percent to $0.262, on volume of 718,000 shares. Shanghai Jintai traded the most on institutional liquidation, down $0.012 or 4.28 percent to $0.268, on volume of 6.2 million shares.
The Shanghai A share index rallied after falls on Tuesday, but the market was still in a mood of consolidation amid uncertainty over its direction, brokers said.
The index rose 17.559 points or 1.37 percent to 1301.322 points, on volume of 1.1 billion shares worth 13.8 billion yuan ($1.66 billion). The SSE 30 blue-chip index jumped 99.013 points or 3.34 percent to 3064.238 points.
($1=8.3 yuan)
Days and nights of intense talks on ways to liberalise global trade brought ministers to the brink of agreement on Wednesday although the stormy issue of labour rights cast a shadow on a final deal.
Despite sleepless nights and three days of intense negotiations, World Trade Organisation (WTO) Director-General Renato Ruggiero was buoyant at the inaugural Ministerial Conference of the two-year-old watchdog body.
"I am very encouraged. The sense of achievement is very clear," he told Reuters as he emerged at the half-way stage of the gathering from the latest of several sessions aimed at finalising a declaration for the ministers to sign.
"The road is open to something important, something big," declared Ruggiero, whose horizon has been set on the Singapore meeting since he took up the post 18 months ago just after the body was launched.
"We are deep in negotiation, and I do not want to prejudice anything," he said. "But there have been some very interesting proposals to get over some of the differences. People are ready for compromise to reach agreement."
Haggling in Singapore focuses on a multi-billion dollar Information Technology Agreement (ITA) and wording of the last few contentious clauses in a final declaration to try to include the concerns of all of the organisation's 128 members.
The document is intended as a blueprint consolidating agreements already reached in the 1986-93 Uruguay Round of world trade talks -- in areas ranging from goods tariffs and services to farm produce and textiles.
It will also set the course and the tone for discussions between now and the end of the century on topics not yet fully under the WTO purview such as basic telecommunications, financial and maritime services, and many others.
The big battle has been over whether to include a reference to core labour standards in the document and whether it should include provision for some discussion in the WTO on investment rules, competition policies and the way national authorities award contracts -- or government procurement.
Several countries, mostly Asian, are resisting what they see as a U.S.-driven push to get labour rights on to the WTO agenda and to use the organisation's disputes court to erode the developing world's low-cost labour edge.
When asked if Malaysia would permit a WTO study on labour rights, International Trade and Industry Minister Rafidah Aziz told reporters: "No, no, no way. There is no place for labour issues at the WTO."
The United States, backed by France, Norway and the International Confederation of Free Trades Unions (ICFTU), has been pressing hard for inclusion of the issue in the final text.
Delegates say Washington has insisted the issue be included if it is to back the declaration when the conference ends.
The United States, digging in its heels, says the labour issue involves human rights, eliminating developing world sweat shops, child and forced labour and other forms of worker abuse.
Faster progress was expected on ITA, with delegates scrambling for an accord to free trade in the $600 billion market for computers, software chips and other high-technology products by the year 2000.
Negotiators from the Big Four powers, the United States, Japan, the European Union and Canada haggled in meetings on the sidelines to try to settle differences as early as late on Wednesday on such touchy questions as what products would be covered and the extent of tariff reductions.
"There is not an agreement yet," European Union Trade Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said after meeting Acting U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky.
"There is agreement on many points. There are some outstanding ones. We are trying to resolve those."
A Japanese government source told Reuters earlier that gaps still remained among the Big Four powers, particularly over which products to include.
"We are continuing to work with our Quad (Big Four) partners and with many other delegates to find a formula that will succeed," a U.S. official told reporters.
Washington hopes that in addition to a broad infotech pact by as many countries as possible, the WTO will endorse the ITA deal in its Ministerial Declaration on Friday.
That would allow WTO members unable to sign on now to do so at a later date by presenting revised tariff schedules at the WTO in Geneva, the U.S. official said.
Aon Corp. said Wednesday it agreed to acquire Alexander &amp; Alexander Services Inc. for about $1.23 billion, creating by some counts the world's largest insurance and risk consulting company.
Aon, a Chicago-based insurance holding company, said it will pay $17.50 a share, or about $790 million, for Alexander &amp; Alexander's common stock and about $437.5 million to holders of the company's preferred stock.
Layoffs and office closings are expected to follow the deal as Aon moves to cut cost, analysts said.
With offices around the world, Aon employs about 27,000 people; Alexander &amp; Alexander about 12,000.
"You have to assume every place there's an Aon office and an Alex office, one of them has got to close. And that's a lot of places," said Conning &amp; Co. insurance analyst Gary Ransom.
Aon Chairman Patrick Ryan said he could not estimate possible job cuts.
"I don't think you should look for huge layoffs," he said.
Alexander &amp; Alexander's stock jumped $3.125 to $17.25, while Aon rose $1 to $58.625, both on the New York Stock Exchange.
Alexander &amp; Alexander, based in New York, is the fourth-largest insurance broker in the world. It has operations in 80 countries, primarily the United States, Canada and Britain.
After its acquisition of Alexander &amp; Alexander, Aon will become either the largest or second-largest insurance broker in the world.
How it will size up against rival giant Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos. Inc. depends on how their operations are counted, Ryan said. "It's not apples to apples," he said.
Aon said it will begin a cash tender offer for Alexander &amp; Alexander's common shares no later than Dec. 16 and upon completion of the tender offer the purchase of the preferred shares will begin.
"Virtually everyone who watches the insurance industry has been expecting this deal," said Robinson-Humphrey insurance analyst Thomas Rosencrants.
"It's a fair price. A&amp;A has been struggling for 15 years. There will be tremendous economies of scale to come out of this as A&amp;A is folded into Aon," Rosencrants said.
Analysts said they would expect Ryan to head up the combined operations and Alexander &amp; Alexander Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frank Zarb to step aside.
"I would have to assume that Frank Zarb would not be around," Ransom said.
The deal was approved unanimously by the boards of both companies, Aon said.
Over the past decade, the insurance industry has become increasingly competitive and insurers have been forced to hold down premium rate increases, which has put downward pressure on their profit margins.
"There's no end in sight to the 10-year soft market," Rosencrants said.
Competition has pressured companies to look for strategic alternatives and led to industry consolidation.
Aon in October completed a $250 million acquisition of Bain Hogg Group Inc. from Britain's Inchcape Plc. The Alexander &amp; Alexander deal likely caps Aon's acquisition drive for now, analysts said.
"The industry has been consolidating. Certainly people have been expecting us to continue to be a leader in that," Ryan said. "We've made two what we think to be strategic and good acquisitions. Now we've got to put them together."
Aon added that its offer was still subject to several conditions, including the tender and non-withdrawal of at least a majority of the voting power of A&amp;A's common shares, and various regulatory approvals.
International Business Machines Corp. Chairman Louis Gerstner on Wednesday warned the computer industry of a backlash against the Internet as confusion and feuding reigns among corporate rivals.
"A lot of what has gone on is just plain confusing," Gerstner said in a keynote speech at the Internet World trade show in New York. "I wouldn't be surprised to see an Internet backlash soon."
He said industry wars over Internet browser software, programming languages, hardware and continuing hype may contribute to corporate and consumer disillusionment about the Internet.
"As an industry, we are not shy about telling people how beautiful our babies are, long before they are born," Gerstner said, adding that customers have to sort out the hype and "food fights" by sparring companies.
Gerstner said many were wondering where money is to be made on the Internet amid what he characterised as hype that seems to be leaving out customers and their needs.
"People ask 'Is there real money to be made on the Internet?' and I say, 'Yes there is,'" Gerstner said, adding that money will be made by companies that can solve customers' problems and make it easy to do things like banking on the Internet.
Gerstner said IBM's approach to the Internet was to work closely with customers and develop the products they need, such as its work with the discount brokerage Charles Schwab, which now offers stock trading over the Internet.
"Schwab expects to capture as many customers with the Internet over the next year as they have over the past 13 years," Gerstner said.
One of the industry "food fights" that Gerstner singled out was Microsoft Corp.s effort to develop software based on Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Java language to design programmes that only run on Microsoft's Windows operating system.
The Java language has been much heralded in the computer industry because of its "write-once, run-anywhere" capability, which lets programmes written in Java run on any computer system. Because of this feature, Java has become a popular programming language for the Internet and networked computers.
"Let's not blow this," Gerstner said. "Let's not do to Java what the industry did to Unix," the high-performance operating system which splintered off into more than 20 versions.
At Internet World on Wednesday, Sun Microsystems unveiled an alliance with IBM and other major companies, which are all backing a move to standardise and certify one version of the Java language.
"Gerstner is taking his guidance from customers and not from industry conflicts," said Sam Albert, an industry consultant based in Scarsdale, N.Y. "He did a lot to de-hype the industry."
Gerstner also reiterated his plea that the industry make things easier for users. He showed a video of IBM's voice recognition technology, which enables computer users to give simple commands to surf the World Wide Web.
He said IBM's voice recognition software for the Internet is now available in beta, or experimental form, and that users could download it for free, starting Wednesday, from IBM's Web site, http://www.ibm.com.
Aon Corp's acquisition of Alexander &amp; Alexander Services Inc looks like a good deal for both insurance giants and an even better one for American International Group Inc.
Aon will pay an aggregate of $1.23 billion for Alexander &amp; Alexander -- a price called reasonable by industry analysts.
Included in that amount is $317.5 million in cash for Alexander &amp; Alexander's Series B preferred shares, which AIG bought for $200 million in June 1994. "AIG made out pretty good on this," said Conning &amp; Co analyst Gary Ransom.  
An AIG spokesman declined to comment on the transaction.
Analysts had long expected Aon to make a major buy. Its purchase this fall for $250 million of Inchcape Plc's Bain Hogg Group unit, a third the size of Alexander &amp; Alexander, did not convince most analysts that Aon was through expending its $1 billion cash warchest. "Virtually everyone who watches the insurance industry has been expecting this deal," Robinson Humphrey analyst Thomas Rosencrants said.
"It's good for Aon. It's good for Alex, too. It gives them something better than what they had. Their (Alexander's) stock price looked like it was going to keep going down," Ransom said.  
Aon chief executive Patrick Ryan is expected to head up the combined operation, with Alexander &amp; Alexander chief executive Frank Zorb expected eventually to step aside.
"I would not be surprised to see Frank take a consulting role. I would not expect him to be involved to a great extent following the merger," Rosencrants said.
In an interview with Reuters, Ryan said Aon was attracted to the strategic fit offered by Alexander &amp; Alexander.
"They've got a great international business. They've got a wonderful consulting business that fits with ours. And they're strong in Canada, where we are quite small," Ryan said.  
Over the past decade, the insurance industry has become increasingly competitive and insurers have had to hold down premium increases. Profit margins have suffered in the process and industry consolidation has accelerated.
"There's no end in sight to the 10-year soft market," Rosencrants said. "A&amp;A has been struggling for 15 years ... Their only realistic alternative would have been to sell to Marsh &amp; McLennan (Cos Inc). But they've been such close competitors over the years that there could have been some cultural problems there."
Aon shares were up 1-1/4 to 58-7/8, Alexander &amp; Alexander was up 3 to 17-1/8, and AIG was off 2 to 109-5/8.
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
The Clinton administration will modestly revise controversial export rules for computer encoding technology after a private meeting Wednesday with computer and telecommunications companies, a top Commerce Department official said.
"This is a work in progress," Under Secretary of Commerce William Reinsch said in a telephone interview after the hour and a half long meeting. "There will be some changes that will be more than technical."  
The administration circulated a draft this week of new rules that would overhaul Cold War era export limits on products containing encryption, computer programs that scramble information and render it unreadable without a password or software "key."
With the growth of the Internet and online commerce, demand for encryption-capable products is growing worldwide. Coded messages can keep a business' e-mail confidential or protect a consumer's credit card number sent on the Internet.
Reinsch and others who attended Wednesday's meeting said the tone was civil.  
"We had a long meeting but it was actually quite a constructive one and actually also a polite one," Reinsch said.
Industry officials argued at the meeting that the draft rules were unclear or unworkable on a number of points.
"In some cases we could tell them what we meant which made them feel better and now we'll go off and try to fix it," Reinsch acknowledged. "In other cases we're going to have to think a little more about what they said and in some cases I'm not sure there is a way to fix it."  
"We are not optimistic that these (rules) will be turned around and we feel going to Congress is our only option," Smiroldo said. The alliance includes a dozen large software firms including Microsoft Corp and International Business Machine Corp's Lotus Development.
Several bills that would dramatically ease encryption export limits were introduced in the last Congress and are expected to be revived next year.
Ambassador David Aaron, appointed by President Clinton as special envoy for cryptography last month, also attended the meeting, Reinsch said.
The draft rules implement an executive order signed by President Bill Clinton last month. Under the order, limits on export of products containing strong encryption would be eased if the products allowed the government to decode encrypted messages by recovering the keys.
The draft rules detail for the first time the government's definition of acceptable key recovery features and other aspects of the revised export approval process.
For example, until 1999, companies will be allowed to export some products that do not include key recovery if the companies promise to include key recovery in future products. -- 202-898-8312
Britain's Airtours proved on Wednesday that package holidays is a sunny business by beating forecasts with record profits and looking to spend up to 250 million pounds ($413 million) on further acquisitions.
Pretax profits in the year to the end of September soared 46.1 percent to 86.8 million pounds, topping even the most optimistic forecasts of 82 million pounds.
Earnings per share jumped 39 percent to 45.63 pence and Airtours raised dividends for the year 14.3 percent to 16 pence.
As the summer holiday buying season gets into full swing, Airtours -- one of Britain's three big quoted tour operators -- has seen bookings rise a sharp 57.2 percent on last year.
With winter bookings up 12.6 percent in Britain, a sharp 92 percent higher in Scandinavia and 58.9 percent up in Canada, chairman and chief executive David Crossland predicted an encouraging outlook for all the group's major markets.
"They were very good figures," said one analyst, adding that he had nudged up his full year forecasts for 1997 to 103 million pounds from 100 million pounds. Airtours's shares bucked a weak market trend and rose nine pence to 712 pence.
Crossland told Reuters that the group was keen to boost its cruising business, buy a new U.S. or Canadian company or find another country in Europe where it could have a similar businesses to those it already owns in Scandinavia and Britain.
"We're probably in a position to spend between about 200 and 250 million pounds on the right sort of acquisition," he said, adding: "We have the resources to be able to do that today."
Airtours, whose dividends are covered more than three times by earnings, has a robust balance sheet and about 425 million pounds of cash. It said there would be significant opportunities for expansion which it would "exploit as they arise".
Record profits were fuelled by strong results from its Scandinavian operations where Airtours owns Premiair, the largest leisure airline in the region, and careful pricing in Britain with fewer packages on offer, the firm said.
Summer 1997 will see about the same number of packages as this year, but they will attract more long haul, flight and cruise and "all inclusive" holiday makers -- packages which have a higher sales price and better margins, Crossland said.
"We shall maintain our capacity at or about the same level as summer 1996 and if this position is maintained across the industry the rewards could be substantial," he noted.
The thee big operators -- Airtours, First Choice Holidays and Inspirations -- have tried to encourage early bookings and load prices on late bookings for both the 1995 and 1996 summer seasons.
But last month saw Francis Baron, the chief executive of loss-making First Choice, ousted and Inspirations issue a profit warning due to troubles with its Caledonian Airways arm and a setback in tour operations caused by aircraft delays.
The operators' future is also clouded by a government decision last month to refer the industry for a monopolies probe in a row about promoting package holidays through their travel agency arms and offering holiday discounts in exchange for expensive travel insurance.
Chancellor Kenneth Clarke's latest budget also jacked up holiday insurance tax from 2.5 to 17.5 percent from April and doubled airport departure tax from next November.
But Crossland said holiday makers seemed unperturbed. "People are bringing their buying position forward because there were less late deals in the market last year and they are tending to buy the more expensive products as well," he said.
($1=.6047 Pound)
North America's major gold companies are waging an expensive battle to win the coveted title of world's biggest gold producer.
"We want more of the action," said Hugh Leggatt, spokesman for Vancouver-based gold firm Placer Dome Inc.. "We want to be positioned in the industry as a bigger player."
Placer Dome has made a $600 million bid for Highlands Gold Ltd. of Papua New Guinea and the 25 percent of Placer Pacific Ltd.  it does not already own.
The company also plans to raise $300 million through a preferred share issue and sell off some small Canadian mine properties.
Placer also has its eye on Bre-X Minerals Ltd., a Calgary, Alberta-based exploration company that discovered what could become one of the world's largest gold mines, the Busang deposit in Indonesia.
But Bre-X is also crucial to Barrick Gold Corp.'s plan to become the world's biggest gold company.
Toronto-based Barrick is already the the world's most profitable gold company and North America's biggest, but it wants to surpass Anglo American Corp. of South Africa Ltd. and Gold Fields of South Africa Ltd. to be the world's largest.
Barrick, through skilful navigation of Indonesian politics, appears to have Bre-X within its grasp. Jakarta has asked the two companies to form a joint venture to develop the 57 million ounce Busang deposit, with Barrick controlling 75 percent.
Denver-based Newmont Mining Corp. was interested in Bre-X, but when Barrick appeared to gain the upper hand, Newmont turned its sights to Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corp., a mid-tier gold company.
Although Newmont seems to have lost out on its stock swap offer for Santa Fe to a $2.3 billion competing bid from Homestake Mining Co., analysts said Newmont was still hunting for other takeover targets.
"This is a very capital-intensive industry and it's becoming a global industry," Newmont spokesman Doug Hock said in an interview.
"In order to compete, you have to have large resources to do that. What you see is the larger players becoming bigger in order to compete."
Homestake is poised to become North America's second-biggest gold company after Barrick if its takeover of Santa Fe succeeds.
Major gold companies are under pressure from their shareholders to keep gold reserves growing, analysts said.
"If one company gets big, they have a lot of clout in the marketplace to acquire properties or resources," said gold analyst Michael Fowler of brokerage Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion.
With gold bullion prices in a steep decline, the share prices of many mid-tier companies have been hit, making takeovers cheaper, Fowler said.
But he said the current leaders of the gold world, the South Africans, were not caught up in the recent consolidation.
"It looks as though they're losing out to the North Americans," said Fowler. "They're behind the eight-ball really."
North American gold producers were geared to react aggressively and quickly, but the South African producers concentrated more on paying dividends, he said. "They don't move very fast."
Analysts said this round of deal-making was far from over as major gold companies fought it out to satisfy their shareholders' thirst for growth.
Analysts said possible future takeover targets included large mid-tier producers such as Dayton Mining Corp., Battle Mountain Gold Co., Cambior Inc. and Echo Bay Mines Ltd..
Seasoned computer industry executive John Young on Friday begins the search for a strong manager to take the helm of Novell Inc who can drive the company back to growth at the speed of the Internet.
Young, 64, was selected by Novell's board of directors on Tuesday to recruit fresh leadership for the struggling maker of computer network software after the board decided it should set a different course than that taken by Robert Frankenberg, its well-liked chairman and CEO of two years.  
"The board has asked me to be chairman, and to work with the management team and recruit a new CEO," said Young, who had himself served as chief executive of Palo Alto-based Hewlett- Packard Co for 15 years through 1992.
No quick fixes are expected, and Young made clear in an interview with Reuters at Novell's offices here late Thursday that he has no intention of serving in the role of chairman once he has completed the search for a chief executive.
"My experience with an executive search of this type is that four to six months is (a realistic time frame) when everything goes right, longer when it doesn't," he said.  
"That's as close to a time frame as I can give you and I do not expect to be involved other than as a director at the end of that period."
Nevertheless, the company already has an ambitious plan to revamp its corporate image, with a $20 million worldwide brand and product advertising campaign due to start next week, and to unveil a string of updated products.
Young and other top Novell executives believe the company now needs a hard-driving top executive who can operate on "Internet time" -- pushing the company to develop products more swiftly and better pinpoint customers' needs.  
Although the company aims to build the near-mania zeal around Internet technologies into its own business plans, it is looking more for a "street savvy" executive who can speed the pace of business than a self-annoited Web hound, he said.
In fact, he said, while the executive must be able to act extremely quickly and turn technologies into products, he said he was "not fond of the idea of regularly turning around product after product after product" with the rapidity that Microsoft Corp and Netscape Communications Corp are launching new browsers, every few months.  
Ironically, Young is charged with replacing the man who had come to him 18 months ago, based on their two decades as business associates at Hewlett-Packard, and recruited him to joint Novell's board of directors.
"He asked me to join the board," Young said. "He thought I would add some management expertise and perspective to the directors. So, yes, he recruited me."
Young and other executives said the departure was agreed on amicable terms, and had been subject of board-level discussion prior to Tuesday, so it had not been a hasty act.  
"These discussions had been under way. They were mutually agreed," one board member said. Young said the board had decided it needed to take "a different way."
"It was quite amicable," he added. "This wasn't some screaming match ... Bob is an enormously talented guy."
In fact, Frankenberg was credited with others in the industry for having taken difficult decisions in disposing of many assets his predecessor, patriarch Ray Noorda, had acquired in a virtually singular fixation that he was going to use Novell as a vehicle to outdo Microsoft chief Bill Gates.  
Noorda had bought a string of operating systems and PC applications businesses, and was rumored in the industry to have funded additional secret development projects, as part of what was broadly viewed as an anti-Microsoft agenda.
Assets were sold at fire sale prices. For example, WordPerfect Corp., purchased in 1994 for $1.4 billion in stock, was sold to Corel Corp  .TO early this year for stock worth about $130 million.  
As one example of new Internet prospects, Novell executive vice president Steve Markman said the company may work with Corel on technologies related to Corel's efforts to break its massive suite of products, many obtained from Novell, to create smaller Java language applications, or "applets".
"It's a tremendous opportunity to move the installed base to the Intranet space," he said, noting that Novell still enjoys a 63 percent share of the worldwide Network market, despite recent inroads by fiercely competitive Microsoft.
Novell also will begin shipping three major product upgrades -- IntraNetWare, which includes the next version of its flagship NetWare product, Managewise 2.1 network management software, and its Groupwise 5 groupware applications -- within about a month.
Nevertheless, analysts said a real test for Novell would be whether it will be able to motivate its own employees, after years of transitions, and generate the excitement in the marketplace over its products which many rivals have created.
Investors in the fast-growing British biotechnology sector can look forward to another roller-coaster ride in 1997, with serious profits still there to be made by investors who pick their stocks carefully.
Although sharp falls in the value of the sector since its peak last May have underlined the riskiness of biotechs as an investment, analysts said 1997 should be the year when a host of companies publish data which will start to prove that the underlying technology can produce drugs that really work.
It should also see a number of businesses step out of the long shadow cast by British Biotech Plc, which continues to ride high on hopes that its cancer treatment Marimastat will be the sector's first wonderdrug.
Among those most keenly tipped for success next year are Biocompatibles International Plc, Celltech Group Plc, Chiroscience Group Plc, Cortecs International Ltd and Scotia Holdings Plc.
And there are growing signs that other countries, notably France and Germany, will start to challenge Britain's domination of the European biotech industry. Britain currently has more biotech companies than the rest of Europe combined.
STOCKS STILL AHEAD DESPITE 1996 SETBACK
Analysts at Lehman Brothers said the end of a 14-month long run of gains by Britain's biotech stocks in May, since when prices have dropped by around 40 percent, jolted investors, leading many to question the real value of biotechs.
But the Lehman Brothers UK/Europe Biotechnology Index also shows that even after this setback, biotech stocks are still showing an overall gain of around 150 percent compared with the start of their bull run in February 1995.
And in a note on the sector, Lehman said investors could buy into drug discovery and development in biotechs at a fraction of the cost of buying into the pipelines of mature companies like Glaxo Wellcome Plc and Zeneca Group Plc.
Nomura Equity Research analyst Nick Woolf also disputed another claim of recent months, that UK biotech stocks are vastly overvalued compared with the much larger U.S. sector.
Woolf said a ratio of market capitalisation to five years of spending on research and development showed U.S. biotechs are valued at four to five times accumulated spending and British companies at between four and six times.
"We are not overvalued compared to the U.S," he said. "When people say the U.K. is overvalued they are looking at British Biotech, but second place companies like Chiroscience, Celltech and Cortecs are all looking very good value."
Woolf and Yamaichi International analyst Erling Refsum said investors had become much more choosy about which stocks to buy, but there was now a danger that people were being too cautious. Where a year ago people would put money into almost any biotech that could type out a prospectus, in recent months a number of small flotations and fundings have been scaled down or dropped.
Even British Biotech was forced to turn to underwriters to rescue its 143 million pounds ($236.5 million) cash call in July.
Refsum said the market was focusing too much on the 50 percent chance that a drug in Phase II trials would fail to get to market rather than the equal chance it would succeed. Woolf added "I think it is the wrong way of looking at it. You should evaluate risk, but across a portfolio of companies where you are spreading the risk."
ISSUES TO WATCH IN 1997
Among key stocks to watch in 1997 will again be British Biotech, where clinical trials of Marimastat are entering the final phase. Although trials will not be completed until 1998 at the earliest, the company plans detailed updates on the drug, probably in May and November. Bad news is still expected to have a disproportionate effect on the whole of the sector.
Celltech is singled out by Nomura, Yamaichi and Lehman. Nomura said Celltech is "very good value," and Lehman have a target valuation of 10 pounds per share for the company by the end of this year compared with a price of 485 pence on Friday afternoon. Optimism about a septic shock drug, being developed with Germany's Bayer AG, and progress on a therapy for Acute Myeloid Leukaemia are seen as key drivers.
Cambridge-based Chiroscience, which Lehman values at 600 pence per share compared with last Friday afternoon's price of 312, is also favoured, amid hopes that a new local anesthetic will provide a flow of cash for an ambitious pipeline of novel drugs including cancer and arthritis treatments.
UK-Australian group Cortecs is strongly tipped by Yamaichi's Refsum, who believes oral osteoporosis and insulin drugs could turn out to be $1 billion-sellers, while he also favours Scotia, which is in the unusual position of having three drugs nearing the market. Tiny Scottish group Shield Diagnostics Plc could be sitting on a product worth around $200 million a year if data due to be published in the first half of 1997 prove its diagnostic kit is an accurate forecaster of heart attacks.
And Lehmans said contact lens and medical devices company Biocampatibles had "enormous upside potential". It said the stock could be worth 16 pounds by the end of 1997 compared with 693 pence on Friday.
($1=.6047 Pound)
The Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) rate cut on Wednesday is expected to further squeeze bank margins as competition has forced them to pass this cut on to their mortgage customers sooner than usual.
The major banks have previously delayed passing on the effect of official rate cuts to their variable rate home loan customers by around seven weeks.
They would, however, often begin lowering variable and fixed deposit rates immediately, providing a temporary widening of their margins.  
Wednesday's rate cut has seen the major banks shorten this delay in passing on the rate cut to about five and half weeks.
Analysts and some of the banks said increasing competition from non-bank mortgage lenders and the regional banks had been the major factor in this contraction.
They also said they expected this gap to narrow further when further official rate cuts are made next year.
"The implication is a bit more pressure on margins," said ABN AMRO Hoare Govett banking analyst Michael Pulman.
"This all about competition," he said.  
"These competitive forces will end up contracting it down further, possibly down to 30 days," said Aussie Home Loans managing director John Symond.
Aussie, the biggest of the non-bank lenders funded by mortgage origination, said on Wednesday it would cut its variable rate to 7.49 percent from 7.99 percent from January 28 for existing customers, a gap of 48 days after December 11.
At the time of the last official rate cut on November 6, Aussie planned a gap of 46 days, which was lower than most of the banks.  
In response to Aussie and competition from regional banks like St George Bank Ltd, the large banks have cut back this delay.
National Australia Bank Ltd said it would cut its variable mortgage rate to 8.25 percent from 8.75 percent from January 23 for existing borrowers, a gap of 43 days.
After the last official rate cut NAB's gap was 54 days.
In line with this trend, Westpac Banking Corp's gap has dropped to 37 days from 41 days and Commonwealth Bank of Australia's gap has dropped to 48 days from 54.  
The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd has yet to announce any cut in variable mortage rates in response to the RBA's cut in the official cash rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent.
The biggest move in the gap came from St George, which reduced the time it would pass on the rate cut for its major variable rate product to 20 days from 55 days.
St George has even said existing customers of its no frills variable rate product would receive the cut from December 18, a week away. This product provides 20 percent of its portfolio.  
Overall the average gap for the banks who have cut their mortgage rates has dropped to 40 days after this rate cut from 49 after the November 6 cut, which was also by 50 basis points.
There may, however,be a limit to how much further this gap can fall, analysts and the banks said.
A new regulatory code on credit specifies customers must be given 30 days notice whenever their interest rates are changed, creating an artificial barrier both up and down.
"I think 30 days will about see it out," said Aussie's Symond.  
Analysts said the banks may try other tactics to cushion the effect of this reduction in the gap, but that it would still further reduce already-bruised margins.
"It will have an effect on margins," said BNP Equities' banking analyst Linda Lyon.
"They'll do all sorts of other things to cushion the effect. They'll be trying to reduce their deposit rates as far and as fast as they can," said ABN AMRO's Mike Pulman.
"But there's obviously a bit of a squeeze there, particularly for those banks most exposed to the housing sector," Pulman said.  
CBA is seen as the most exposed with about 34 percent of its assets in home loans, with Westpac next on 25 percent and NAB and ANZ on about 17 percent.
The big bank's margins on home loans have already declined this year from about three percent in June to about 2.25 percent now.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1812
One of Hong Kong's best-known pro-democracy politicians, Emily Lau, was dragged away kicking and screaming by police after lying down on a road to protest against China's methods of choosing a post-colonial leader.
Up to 40 pro-democracy activists scuffled with riot police outside the Hong Kong Convention Centre, where a committee of 400 chosen by Beijing voted for a chief executive to rule Hong Kong after Britain hands the colony back to China at midnight next June 30.
Police said 29 demonstrators were arrested for obstruction and would be released on bail later in the day.
A dozen activists shouting "oppose the phoney election" lay down on the road and were dragged away by police.
Lau, an independent democrat fiercely critical of China's communist rulers, was among those carried off, witnesses said. It was not immediately clear whether Lau was among those arrested.
Fellow legislators Andrew Cheng of the Democratic Party and trade union leader Lee Cheuk-yan were also hauled away.
"It's a sad day for Hong Kong. What can ordinary Hong Kong citizens do -- they cannot vote," John Wing-ling Tse, a legislator of the Democratic Party, said.
Earlier, protesters erected a "tomb of democracy" outside the building and condemned the voting as the end of freedom and the rule of law in the territory.
A panel of 400 chosen by China voted for the future leader. None of the rest of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people had a vote, causing the democracy lobby to dismiss the process as a sham.
Several hundred pro-democracy activists demonstrated on Tuesday evening and 20 diehards camped out overnight with an imitation tomb in front of the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
The first thing in the line of sight when Selection Committee members arrived was the imitation ancient Chinese-style grey arched tomb, constructed from wood.
The structure faced the Hong Kong Convention Centre with the inscription "Tomb Of Hong Kong Democracy And Rule Of Law". Candles flickered in the wind beside it.
The committee was convened to carry out the first of two historic tasks -- to elect the man who will step into the shoes of Governor Chris Patten when Britain pulls out. The clear favourite, shipping magnate Tung Chee-Hwa, emerged victorious.
The committee's second task, on December 21, is to choose a provisional legislature that will replace the current elected Legco (Legislative Council) on July 1.
The scuffles erupted after police urged the demonstrators, from the United Front Against the Provisional Legislature, to move to a cordoned-off area.
Occasionally the group marched a short distance bearing the tomb aloft, as in a funeral procession. In front of the tomb a banner was posted saying "Death of Hong Kong Rule Of Law".
"We are against the Selection Committee's so-called election of the first chief executive," said Cheng. "The selection is not real because it is done by Beijing," the legislator said.
The protesters brandished a colourful banner with the slogan "Oppose the False Election Of The Chief Executive, Oppose The Provisional Legislature" and denounced China for not allowing Hong Kong's electorate to vote.
One of Hong Kong's best-known pro-democracy politicians, Emily Lau, was dragged away kicking and screaming by police after lying down on a road to protest against China's methods of choosing a post-colonial leader.
Up to 40 pro-democracy activists scuffled with riot police outside the Hong Kong Convention Centre, where a committee of 400 chosen by Beijing voted for a chief executive to rule Hong Kong after Britain hands the colony back to China at midnight next June 30.
A dozen activists shouting "oppose the phoney election" lay down on the road and were dragged away by police.
Lau, an independent democrat fiercely critical of China's communist rulers, was among those carried off, witnesses said. It was not immediately clear if they were arrested.
Fellow legislators Andrew Cheng of the Democratic Party and trade union leader Lee Cheuk-yan were also hauled away.
"It's a sad day for Hong Kong. What can ordinary Hong Kong citizens do -- they cannot vote," John Wing-ling Tse, a legislator of the Democratic Party said.
Earlier, protesters erected a "tomb of democracy" outside the building and condemned the voting as the end of freedom and the rule of law in the territory.
Only the 400 electors chosen by China voted for the future leader. None of the rest of Hong Kong's 6.3 million people had a vote.
Several hundred pro-democracy activists demonstrated on Tuesday evening and 20 diehards camped out overnight with the imitation tomb in front of the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
As the Selection Committee members arrived in shiny limousines, their first sight was an imitation ancient Chinese-style grey arched tomb, constructed from wood.
The structure faced the Hong Kong Convention Centre with the inscription "Tomb Of Hong Kong Democracy And Rule Of Law". Candles flickered in the wind beside it.
The committee was convened to carry out the first of two historic tasks -- to elect the man who will step into the shoes of Governor Chris Patten when Britain pulls out. The clear favourite was shipping magnate Tung Chee-Hwa.
The committee's second task, on December 21, is to choose a provisional legislature that will replace the current elected Legco (Legislative Council) on July 1.
The scuffles erupted after police urged the demonstrators, from the United Front Against the Provisional Legislature, to move to a cordoned-off area.
Occasionally the group marched a short distance bearing the tomb aloft, as in a funeral procession. In front of the tomb a banner was posted saying "Death of Hong Kong Rule Of Law".
"We are against the Selection Committee's so-called election of the first chief executive," said Cheng. "The selection is not real because it is done by Beijing," the legislator said.
The protesters brandished a colourful banner with the slogan "Oppose the False Election Of The Chief Executive, Oppose The Provisional Legislature" and denounced China for not allowing Hong Kong's electorate to vote.
"This is an abuse of their human rights. Some people are more equal and have more rights. In other cultures it is always your vote that counts. In Hong Kong this is apparently not the case," Tse said.
"They say they represent Hong Kong and Hong Kong people but they are not elected. How can they represent us if they are not elected? What is an election with 400 appointees?"
Just months ago, shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa was a retiring man who avoided the limelight, kept his political views secret, and seemed to strike a balance between his loyalties to China and Britain.
But he has emerged as Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader and evolved into a conservative, Chinese patriot, loudly singing China's tune on key political issues under the bright spotlight of the media.
A 400-member Selection Committee controlled by China on Wednesday picked Tung as chief executive to govern Hong Kong when it becomes an autonomous region of China in mid-1997.
On the campaign trail, the 59-year-old tycoon with hallmark spiky grey hair had been swapping his pinstripe suits for jeans and sportswear to traipse around local communities to show he not only walks among kings but also has the common touch.
Tung saw his fortunes almost dashed in the 1980s when the family firm met ill winds, but Beijing helped bail him out with a syndicated loan. Now he is their man in Hong Kong.
Tung grabbed a resounding 320 of the committee's 400 votes.
Eve-of-vote polls also showed Tung to be the public's favourite -- 47 percent support versus his nearest rival Yang Ti Liang's 29 percent. The masses, however, had no vote.
Many saw Tung's victory as preordained. A pointed handshake from President Jiang Zemin in Beijing last January anointed him, most people think.
During his campaign, Tung said he would legalise the Communist Party. He condemned the Democratic Party -- Hong Kong's largest -- for being anti-China, and warned foreign countries not to use Hong Kong to subvert China.
He also said anybody advocating independence for Taiwan or Tibet could not stay in Hong Kong.
He has accused colonial Governor Chris Patten of trying to split Hong Kong, called for pro-China patriotism in schools, and unveiled administrative policies stressing executive-led rule and a slower route to democracy.
Tung rounded on those who use the term "pro-China" as a dirty word.
"We have to turn pro-China into a very positive definition. It is a good thing to love our country," he said.
Complained Democratic Party legislator Tsang Kin-shing: "I find him more colonial than the colonial government."
Tung has vowed to give free rein to Hong Kong's capitalist economy and business development. But he has also promised not to ignore the need for social welfare.
While some fret over his conservatism, most who know him both at home and abroad hail Tung's good character. He has a reputation for modesty, wisdom and caution.
"He is a man, in my view, of great integrity, a strong individual, independent-minded, surely and sincerely promoting the welfare of the people of Hong Kong," said U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord, a friend of Tung's.
But Lord noted he had failed to sway Tung to reject China's plan to scrap Hong Kong's elected Legislative Council with a provisional legislature next July 1. Britain has condemned the plan as a "black day for democracy" in the territory.
Tung has been a senior member of the Preparatory Committee of pro-Beijing, Hong Kong notables and mainland China officials crafting the power structures to replace British colonial rule.
He was lauded as an impartial and honest counsellor by Patten when he left the governor's advisory cabinet in June.
He resigned in October as head of his company, Orient Overseas (International) Ltd, to make his leadership bid.
Tung took the helm of Orient after his father died in 1979. He has publicly acknowledged that China helped bail out the company 11 years ago by backing a US$120 million fund led by tycoon Henry Fok, a kingmaker in the leadership contest.
Born in Shanghai in 1937, Tung was educated at Liverpool University in Britain.
He once sailed his shipping empire through rough waters, steered an even course between China and Britain for years, but navigating Hong Kong into Chinese rule in 1997 will be the challenge of his lifetime.
Shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa, chosen as Hong Kong's first Chinese leader on Wednesday after more than 150 years of British colonial rule, will take the helm on July 1.
"He will be charting the course for Hong Kong as it enters a new era. And he will be at the helm of what is at once an economic powerhouse and a dynamic, sophisticated metropolis," Governor Chris Patten, Britain's last colonial chief, said in a statement congratulating Tung on his victory.
It is a mission that has no precedent.
The territory that Tung governs will be the first British colony to have matured into a world trading economy and then handed back to a communist-ruled motherland.
China has promised the territory of 6.3 million people a great degree of autonomy and at least 50 more years of untrammeled capitalism but vowed to curb the pace of democratic reform.
The 59-year-old tycoon saw his fortunes almost dashed in the 1980s when the family firm met ill winds, but Beijing helped bail him out with a syndicated loan, and his firm regained its strength.
In his new role, Tung will have to tack between pro-democracy politicians who branded his triumph the death of democracy, the departing colonial British with their sense of lost empire, and a proud Beijing Communist leadership keen to set the stamp "This is China" on the map of Hong Kong forever.
The vocal pro-democracy lobby plans to challenge his authority with a no-confidence vote in the current legislature.
"What Hong Kong needs most is a champion for Hong Kong people as we face the unprecedented challenges of the handover -- not a spokesman for China," said Democratic Party leader Martin Lee.
Some analysts predicted Hong Kong's own version of China's "red princelings" -- sons and daughters of senior Communist Party officials -- would move to centre stage from now.
Members of families closely tied to the Beijing government since the 1950s are favourites for the 60 seats in the new legislature or roles in Tung's inner advisory cabinet.
The new elite will look to people such as legislator Leung Chun-ying, a policeman's son who has emerged as Beijing's trusted lieutenant in the transition process.
The princelings also include figures such as Timothy Fok, eldest son of Beijing's most trusted man in Hong Kong, tycoon Henry Fok, a kingmaker in the contest that Tung won.
Tung must now swiftly lay down a gameplan for the next six months with Beijing, political analysts said.
He must also work closely with the politicians and business titans likely to be brought into the post-1997 provisional legislature and advisory cabinet known as the Executive Council.
"He will start out with a unity of support behind him at least from the more moderate and pro-China in Hong Kong," said political analyst Michael DeGolyer of the Baptist University.
"I think he's going to have to move rather rapidly to talk to the people in Beijing. He is going to have to move rather rapidly to meet with Provisional Legco (Legislative Council) members," DeGolyer said.
Tung's first bite at his realm will come on Thursday when the China-controlled Hong Kong Preparatory Committee crafting 1997 power structures meets over the border in Shenzhen city.
Very soon, Tung will also have to talk to Hong Kong's popular top civil servant, Chief Secretary Anson Chan.
Tung has said he would like to keep Chan as chief secretary but her past defence of Patten's democratic reforms may have dented her credibility and spoiled her chances of staying on.
Tung is keen not to rock the boat and has said he aims to keep as much of the civil service intact as possible. "Nobody wants the present administration to be turned into a lame duck," Tung said before the vote.
Shanghai-born tycoon Tung Chee-hwa claimed victory for himself and for the Chinese nation on Wednesday when he won the race for Hong Kong's future leader.
"For the past 100 years, Hong Kong has been a colony. Now we are in charge of ourselves. I believe most Hong Kong people have confidence in the future," said Tung.
"Some people still have worries, but I want to remind them that people walk the road together, success lies with the people and comes from their efforts," he said.
"I believe everyone should be clear that we want a better Hong Kong, a better future," Tung said.
Tung was elected by the Selection Committee, a panel of 400 members handpicked by Beijing, to be Hong Kong's Chief Executive once the colony reverts to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997.
In a short, prepared victory speech, Tung, 59, stressed pragmatism and stability and downplayed democracy.
While noting Hong Kong's rule of law, spirit of freedom and strong civil service, Tung said it was important to secure a smooth transition for the colony from British to Chinese rule.
"I believe we can do better than before, based on the one country-two systems policy and under the protection of the Basic Law," Tung said.
He was referring to Beijing's policy for letting Hong Kong's capitalist system continue after it comes under the communist government's jurisidiction, and to its post-1997 constitution.
That Tung would be the man to take on Hong Kong's leadership yoke after the departure of the last British governor, Chris Patten, had been widely seen as a foregone conclusion.
The shipping magnate heads a family empire that was bailed out of financial difficulties by China a decade ago.
In the first round of voting by the 400-member Selection Committee, Tung took 206 votes. On Wednesday, he won 320 votes.
His speech was delivered at Hong Kong's Convention Centre immediately after his victory was declared by Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, who said Tung had become Hong Kong's most democratically elected leader to date.
The voting process, long criticised as undemocratic and unrepresentative of Hong Kong's six million people, was a step forward on the colony's road to democracy, Tung said.
"People may have differing opinions about the pace of democratic change in Hong Kong, but today, under the Basic Law, I believe we are making the first step towards democracy and this is most suitable for Hong Kong's situation," Tung said.
"This is a good start," he said. "Today we elect our own chief executive and in the future, we will follow the Basic Law and the actual situation of our society, step by step, to push democracy forward," he said.
He called on Hong Kong's political parties not to politicise issues but to work together for the sake of their country and for all Chinese people.
Demonstrations were part of Hong Kong culture, he said, but people should instead sit down and discuss their grievances.
Tung emphasised public welfare reform and called for a long-term re-examination of education, welfare for the elderly and industry policy.
He was leaving for Shenzhen, a Chinese special economic zone on Hong Kong's border, later on Wednesday, where he was expected to receive China's official blessing as Hong Kong's next leader.
Shanghai copper futures, which have fallen steadily over the past year, will see further declines in early 1997 with fundamentals poor and domestic demand stable, analysts and traders said on Wednesday.
Shanghai copper has fallen from its record high of around 32,000 yuan a tonne in mid-1995 to the 20,000-yuan level, although it is slightly up on its lowest levels of below 19,000 yuan touched in October.
"The downward trend in copper prices is world-wide with the supply of copper rising fast due to higher prices a couple of years ago, while demand is increasing more slowly in line with the world economy," a local metals analyst said.
The analyst, who works for a financial markets consulting firm, said the current price trend could conceivably continue for more than a year.
"From a long-term view, copper will not stop its downward trend until the middle of 1998 as there is usually a three- to five-year cycle of prices on the world market," the analyst said.
China's domestic demand for copper is also stable due to the government's continued tight monetary policy in place since 1993 to prevent the economy from over-heating, analysts said.
In the first nine months of 1996, China's consumption of copper was about 530,000 tonnes, about the same as the 1995 level, local traders said.
"In China, a shortfall of 250,000 tonnes of copper is expected in 1996," a local trader said. "But if you include imports, supplies are sufficient."
China imported 177,500 tonnes of copper in the first nine months of this year, up 60,900 tonnes from the same 1995 period, official figures show.
A local trader said Shanghai copper is likely to fall further to 19,000 yuan, possibly hitting a low of 17,000 yuan before the end of the year.
"In 1997, Shanghai copper will continue its steady downward movement, but it is possible for particularly sharp falls or rebounds in futures prices in certain periods of high speculation," he said.
"The recent rebound in prices both in London and Shanghai, triggered by falls in stockpiles on the London Metal Exchange, is a good example of such speculative movements," he said.
"Mature Chinese speculators will not miss any chances to make prices fluctuate for profits," he said.
($1=8.3 yuan)
To dam or not to dam the mighty Yangtze river has been a question that has teased China for much of this century.
Electrical engineer-turned-premier Li Peng finally took the decision to dam, and four years later officials charged with the giant project are confident neither funding shortfalls nor environmental activists will stand in their way.
Officials of the China Three Gorges Project Development Corp say the dam in the central province of Hubei faces a funding shortfall of one-sixth of its multi-billion dollar price tag.
But they vow to complete it even if foreign funding now being sought fails to materialise.
The price tag of the world's biggest water control project, harnessing the power of Asia's longest river, is expected to be at least 240 billion yuan ($29 billion), officials told reporters at a recent visit.
That however could rise as high as 300 billion yuan ($36 billion), depending on such variables as inflation and interest rates, they said.
Costs were estimated to be 90 billion yuan at 1993 levels while interest and inflation would add at least 150 billion yuan by the time the dam was completed in 2009 after 17 years of construction, said Three Gorges Corp vice-president Yuan Guolin.
"Our capital shortfall, as a proportion of the total funding needed, is about 20 percent," Yuan said.
The central government will directly pick up 50 percent of the projected minimum 240 billion yuan tab while loans from state banks would account for another 20 percent, said He Gong, deputy general manager for the Three Gorges Corp.
ABOUT 30 BILLION IN LOANS
Of this, the State Development Bank would provide about 30 billion yuan in loans while revenue allocated from the Gezhouba dam downstream on the Yangtze would bring in an additional 15-18 billion yuan, He said.
The project would start generating money itself when some of the dam's 26 turbines whir into life in 2003, financing about another 10 percent of the cost.
The dam will eventually fire out 84.7 million megawatt-hours of electricity a year, transmitting power to nearly every major city in China.
Asked how the company would make up a shortfall of at least 40 billion yuan, officials coupled rosy predictions about overseas bond issues and export credits with steely defiance against foreign jitters over the project.
"The overall trend is that we need to develop towards international channels," Yuan said. He hailed a deal with Canada for $30 million in export credits for the project's computer network.
The company was eyeing a long-delayed foreign bond issue in the near future and could look to a stock issue further down the road, said deputy general manager Wang Jiazhu.
"When we will issue bonds and stocks remains to be seen. When the time comes, we will make an announcement," Wang said.
EXIMBANK SHORT-SIGHTED, SAYS YUAN
Vice-president Yuan dismissed the U.S. Export-Import Bank's refusal to finance the dam because of environmental worries as short-sighted folly, saying the decision would only hurt U.S. firms and workers.
"We would welcome a change in attitude by the United States toward the Three Gorges," Yuan said. "It would not only be good for the project, it would bring numerous benefits to American companies."
The dam, which will create a 600-square km (230-square mile) reservoir, has drawn heavy fire from environmental and human rights groups abroad, who fear damage to the river ecology and fret over the resettlement of 1.2 million local residents.
Chief engineer Gan Weiyi vowed China would find the funding at home if cash failed to materialise from abroad.
"If you don't want to lend to me, I can overcome that," Gan said.
Faced with the job of moving 102.6 million cubic metres (3.6 trillion cubic feet) of soil and stone, the company has bought construction equipment from Caterpillar Inc of the United States, Japan's Komatsu Construction Co and other foreign firms.
"Our purchases of foreign equipment now total more than $100 million," vice-president Yuan said.
BIG PRIZE
The big prize will be landed in the middle of 1997.
It is then that China is to sign a 10 billion yuan contract with foreign suppliers for the 14 700-megawatt generators that will be part of the heart of the riparian behemoth.
Consortia involving Germany's Siemens, GE Canada, and Hitachi and Toshiba of Japan -- among others -- are expected to participate in the bidding, scheduled to open on December 18.
The numbers are on a giant scale. More than 27 million cubic metres (953 million cubic feet) of concrete will be poured into the dam, shiplocks and navigation channels. About 354,000 tonnes of rebar and nearly 281,000 tonnes of metal will be used.
To carry out the herculean task, China has mobilised tens of thousands of workers to build the project.
A steady stream of dumptrucks with tires twice as tall as a man rumble to and from the sprawling construction site. Mountains of sand, gravel and steel bars line the roads.
Proud officials voiced conviction that the decision taken after seven decades of vacillation was the correct one.
"We are confident we have the capability to finish the construction," He said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Canada's Bre-X Minerals Ltd and Barrick Gold Corp are still trying to forge a joint venture to mine the spectacular Busang gold discovery in Indonesia, despite a cloud of uncertainty over the rights to the deposit Bre-X's chief executive David Walsh said.
Progress in the negotiations with Barrick is slow, Walsh told Reuters in a telephone interview on Thursday.
"We're moving ahead, albeit at a snail's pace," he said, adding that legal issues stood in the way of a full agreement. "We're trying to get them to appreciate our views and the legal stance that we've taken," he said.
Last month, the Indonesian government advised Bre-X to form a joint venture with Toronto-based gold giant Barrick to operate Busang. The government requested a deal by December 4, but the two companies announced after the deadline that several issues were still outstanding.
Since then, the Indonesian government has raised doubts about Bre-X's grip on Busang, which is estimated to contain at least 57 million ounces of gold, worth around $21 billion at today's prices.
"The government has stopped processing the previous application for contracts of work by Bre-X because of various problems," Umar Said, Indonesia's secretary-general of mines, told Reuters in Jakarta on Thursday. "Therefore the previous application by Bre-X that has been delayed must be stopped and must be said to have been canceled."
He said Bre-X and Barrick must jointly submit new applications for contracts of work on the deposit.
Without contracts of work granted by the Indonesian government, Bre-X cannot proceed to exploit the find
But Walsh defended his company, saying its permits and applications for the gold property were "in good standing."
He said two Bre-X officials met with Umar in Jakarta on Thursday and were assured everything was in line.
"The telephone call that I got from Rolie (Francisco), he was quited pleased with the meeting. He said we're making very good progress in our relationship (with the mines ministry)," Walsh said.
Bre-X spokesman Steve McAnulty tried to explain the apparent contradiction in Umar's statements. "What the government wants to do in essence is that if an agreement with Barrick is made, the existing applications will be replaced with new applications," he told Reuters
Bre-X earlier said Umar had apologized for the misunderstanding, saying his comments were "erroneously reported in a December 11 Reuters newswire article."
Peter Thomas, the Reuters company spokesman in London, said Reuters was confident the quotations in its December 11 story from Jakarta were accurate.
Despite the barrage of news releases from Bre-X on Thursday, Barrick was still seeking clarity on the situation from the Indonesian government.
"We're still seeking clarification and we want to hear directly from the government of Indonesia," Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said in Toronto. "We're not saying anything until we talk directly to the government of Indonesia."
Bre-X, too, is waiting for the Indonesian government to make a move.
Walsh said he still had high hopes that Indonesian President Suharto would open up an auction for Bre-X, allowing other major mining companies to bid on the Busang project.
He said Bre-X had not made a formal request for an auction, but "we understand that the president is reviewing the situation."
An auction would be advantageous for Bre-X shareholders and for Indonesia, he said.
"We're not soliciting offers. We are getting other phone calls," Walsh said. "I am talking to to principals of other companies."
He said he had spoken to executives at Placer Dome Inc, Newmont Mining Corp and Teck Corp.
In Vancouver, Placer Dome spokesman Hugh Leggatt said any suggestion of an open auction on Busang was encouraging. His company has made a formal request for an open bidding process.
But gold mining analyst Bill Belovay with CIBC Wood Gundy said Barrick's competitors may be trying to make a deal with Bre-X more expensive for Barrick.
"They're playing games," he said. "One has got to read between the lines."
He said Busang was so fraught with uncertainty that he has a hard time understanding why the major gold producers would be interested. "One doesn't even know what percentage (Barrick) will end up with. One doesn't even know how to keep Suharto happy," he said. "To me it's a whole big nightmare."
Investors were thoroughly confused by Thursday's developments, analysts said.
"We're getting so much information, headline after headline," said one analyst. "It's causing anxiety for everyone."
Bre-X, which has halted all day Wednesday, closed down C$0.85 at 19.80 in rapid trading on Thursday of more than 8.6 million shares. Barrick, which lost C$2.75 on Wednesday, regained C$1 on Thursday to C$39.50 in trading of more than two million shares.
Oneok Inc. and Western Resources Inc. on Thursday agreed to a $660 million deal that combines their natural gas assets and gives Western Resources access to a broader base of customers for its electricity and security services.
The deal reflects the moves within the utility industry to prepare for further deregulation.
Under the agreement, Oneok will take all the natural gas assets of Western Resources, making it the ninth largest gas distribution company in the United States serving 1.4 million customers. Tulsa-based Oneok is the parent of Oklahoma Natural Gas Co.
Western Resources, based in Topeka, Kan., will become the largest equity holder in Oneok, receiving about 3 million new shares of Oneok common stock and preferred stock that will be convertible, upon necessary regulatory approvals, into about another 19.3 million shares of Oneok common. Its total stake in Oneok is about 45 percent.
The deal is expected to close by mid-1997, following approval by Oneok shareholders and federal and state regulatory authorities.
"They (Oneok) are a total gas company. They understand the gas business better than we do," Western Resources president David Wittig said in a telephone interview.
By swapping its gas assets, Western Resources will be able to focus its efforts on growing its electricity and home-security businesses, both of which involve a customer base of home owners and 24-hour monitoring of consumers.
Oneok's 735,000 customers could become potential clients of Western Resources' services.
"Western Rseources has been becoming a nationwide marketer of retail energy -- electricity and/or gas -- and home security," Everen Securities analyst Dan Rudakas said. "This combination gives them direct access to another 735,000 gas customers, which in the future ... would be potential electric customers and also electronic home security customers."
The companies said the alliance will position the companies to take advantage of the expected deregulation of the electricity industry, allowing customers to buy electrical power from several sources instead of just the local utility. That type of deregulation is already taking place in the natural gas industry.
"Eventuallly there will be total competition in electricity and in gas," John Hayes Jr, Western Resources chairman, told a teleconference. "We are just preparing for the future."
The companies said Oneok's independence would be preserved by standstill provisions in the agreement that define the rights and responsibilities of the respective companies for at least the next 15 years.
Western Resources will receive a preferred dividend of 1.5 times the underlying common dividend, which now stands at 30 cents a share, but no less than $1.80 per preferred share per year for the first five years.
George K. Baum analyst Dennis Hudson said Western Resources' natural gas assets earned that company about $20 million in 1995. As part of Oneok, the assets likely will earn more, given that company's expertise in gas distributions and synergies from its existing gas business.
With its stake in Oneok, Western Resources will still benefit from a portion of the gas earnings, as well as future gas alliances that Oneok might enter into in the future.
"Oneok would continue to search for opportunities to acquire more customers on the gas side. We're most supportive of that," Wittig said.
He added that Western Resources continues to look for ways to expand its electricity and home-security businesses.
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
An independent shareholder advisory firm recommended Thursday that investors of Conrail Inc reject a key provision in the railroad's proposed acquisition by CSX Inc.
Maryland-based Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), which provides corporate analyses to institutional clients, suggested that shareholders defeat a proposal that would permit CSX to pursue its proposed $8.5 billion stock and cash transaction.  
In making the recommendation, senior analyst Peter Gleason noted Norfolk Southern Corp's rival $10 billion cash bid that has been rejected by Conrail.
"We believe that all shareholders should be treated equally in any merger transaction, and because of NS's higher offer currently outstanding, we do not believe it would be in shareholders' best interest to opt out of the fair price provision at this time," Gleason wrote in a 16-page report.
Conrail investors are being asked to waive a Pennsylvania law that requires an all-cash payment by CSX, which already has bought 19.9 percent of Conrail in a cash tender offer.  
In October, CSX and Conrail announced a merger that calls for CSX to buy 40 percent of Conrail in cash and the rest in stock. Although Norfolk Southern has submitted a higher all-cash bid, Conrail contends the CSX offer is a better fit.
ISS disputed that argument, saying that both potential combinations would create an East Coast railroad powerhouse.
"However, CSX's front-end loaded, two-tiered takeover does not treat all Conrail shareholders fairly, and the lock-ups provided in the agreement have denied Conrail shareholders the possibility of accepting a higher payment for their shares," Gleason wrote.  
Under the agreement between Conrail and CSX, Conrail would be prohibited from entering a pact with another company before July 1997.
"The only thing prohibiting the higher offer from being presented to sharheolders are the barriers erected by Conrail to ensure the company merges with CSX," Gleason wrote.
CSX declined to comment on the report. Conrail also did not have any immediate comment.
Conrail has scheduled a special shareholder meeting for December 23 to consider a waiver of the Pennsylvania law.  
ISS, which held meetings with Conrail and Norfolk Southern, also recommended that shareholders reject a Conrail request to adjourn the meeting if more votes are needed to ensure passage of the waiver.
"In this case, shareholders already have the information they need to make their voting decisions. Once their votes have been cast, there is no justification to spend extra money to continue pressing shareholders for more votes," Gleason wrote.  
ISS also said the Conrail-CSX union could run into trouble from the Surface Transportation Board (STB), the federal regulatory agency overseeing railroads.
"Although Conrail and CSX believe STB approval and/or concessions will not create significant problems, we see the competitive issues as a major concern, and do not share Conrail's belief that STB approval of the transaction is assured," Gleason wrote.
He also noted that many shareholders expected CSX and Conrail to amend their pact to sweeten the stock portion of their proposed transaction.
"Conrail has indicated that it has had discussions with CSX about raising the back end of the consideration to make the offer more equitable to shareholders, but no decisions have been made to date," Gleason wrote.
He also said that Norfolk Southern would likely raise its rival offer if CSX sweetened the deal.
Western Resources Inc said its alliance with natural gas company ONEOK Inc could boost its earnings by $0.10 to $0.15 a share in the first full year of operations.
"We could see earnings be improved by maybe $0.10 or $0.15 a share in the first full year of operation," David Wittig, Western Resources president, said in a telephone interview.
The Western Resource-ONEOK alliance is expected to become effective in mid-1997, making calendar 1998 the first full year of operation.  
According to First Call, the consensus earnings estimate for Western Resources is $2.63 a share in 1996, down from $2.71 a year ago.
In addition, Western Resources, which is swapping its natural gas assets in return for about a 45 percent stake in ONEOK as part of the alliance, is expected to see its cash flow increase by $35 million in the first full year.
"The best way to look at this transaction is on a cash basis," Wittig said. "And we expect this transaction to improve our cash flow in the first full year of operations by around $35 million."  
The alliance also reflects Western Resources' strategy to become a brand-name supplier of electricity and home-security products nationwide, while its natural gas assets become part of a larger, focused gas company.
"They (ONEOK) are a total gas company. They understand the gas business better than we do," Wittig said.
In addition, ONEOK's 735,000 gas customers present a marketing potential for Western Resources' electricity and home-security businesses. With ONEOK as a partner, Western Resource hopes to offer gas supplies to customers nationwide.  
Western Resources, based in Topeka, Kan., continues to look for acquisitions to expand its electricity and home security businesses.
Western Resources' planned acquisition of utility Kansas City Power &amp; Light Co is pending. In home security, Western Resources, which holds about a quarter of ADT Ltd, has made five acquisitions related to that business this year, Wittig said.
"Obviously, we're acquisitive," he added.
Wittig said electricity and home-security businesses are similar, beyond the common customer base of households.
"You are providing a service on a 24-hour basis," he said. "You are monitoring a home when you are selling electricity (and with home-security services)," he added.
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
The debt restructuring package hammered out between Anglo-French Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel and its creditors may not be able to withstand any extra financial demands resulting from last month's fire, secondary debt trading firm Klesch &amp; Co said on Thursday.
"The recent fire onboard a Eurotunnel HGV shuttle has now raised fundamental safety concerns, with potentially dire (but as yet unquantifiable) long-term implications," Klesch &amp; Co said in a report on the restructuring plans.  
It said from an investment viewpoint the events "call into question the likely adequacy of the financial restructuring package as currently proposed" but acknowledged the immediate impact on Eurotunnel's revenues "is likely to be minor."
The report said that according to its calculations, the multi-billion pound debt restructuring hammered out between Eurotunnel and a group of 225 creditor banks, which was finally agreed in October, had only left the company with "headroom," or contingency reserve, of 600 million pounds ($990.7 million), or around 67 million pounds a year over nine years.  
"Any development (such as the fire) which has the potential to impact future revenues or operating efficiency, could threaten the suffciency of a financial restructuring package."
Passenger car shuttle services resumed through the tunnel on Tuesday, three weeks after the fire closed the undersea link. The fire on a truck destroyed a freight vehicle and damaged a section of the tunnel. Thirty-four people were injured.  
Rail services for passengers between Paris and London and Brussels and London resumed last week but no date has been set for a resumption of the shuttle service for trucks.
The report said that in the aftermath of the fire the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority would have to consider the design and operation of the open-lattice freight carriers.
"Should (it) decide that fundamental changes will be required to the HGV shuttles, the potential for a reduction in revenues and/or increases in costs could reduce the contingency made available by the restructuring," it added.
Klesch &amp; Co also pointed out the fire had highlighted that Eurotunnel "consists in its entirety of a single, high profile, effectively irreplaceable, hugely expensive and vulnerable operating asset," a factor at the core of its concerns.
Bre-X Minerals Ltd's hold on the huge Busang gold deposit in Indonesia remained unclear Thursday after a string of statements from the company defending its rights to the find.
Calgary, Alberta-based Bre-X issued three news releases in as many hours early on Thursday about its grasp on Busang, worth at least $21 billion at today's gold prices and one of the world's biggest gold deposits.
Bre-X said its exploration permits and applications for contracts of work on Busang remained in good standing.
"Obviously significant progress is being made on all fronts toward the development of the Busang deposit," Bre-X Chief Executive David Walsh said in a statement issued from Jakarta.
Bre-X said its officials had met with Umar Said, Indonesia's secretary general of the Ministry of Mines, to clarify its status with Busang.
The company said Umar apologised for comments relating to the cancellation of permits and contract of work applications for Busang.
"The exploration permits and CoW applications for Busang II and Busang III remain in good standing," Bre-X said. Busang II contains most of the gold found so far on the property.
But earlier on Thursday, Umar repeated his comments to Reuters in Jakarta casting Bre-X's status in doubt.
Indonesian mining officials told Reuters in Jakarta that they had stopped processing Bre-X's applications for vital contracts of work on the gold find. Instead, Bre-X and Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp. must jointly submit new applications for the permits.
"The government has stopped processing the previous application for contracts of work by Bre-X because of various problems," Umar said. "Therefore, the previous application by Bre-X that has been delayed must be stopped and must be said to have been cancelled."
While mining officials were explaining their position in Jakarta, Bre-X was issuing optimistic statements.
Bre-X said it appeared that the development of Busang was "possibly open to negotiation" and that draft documents showed it had exclusive operating rights to Busang.
The Indonesian government encouraged Bre-X in November to form a joint venture with Barrick, with Barrick getting 75 percent of the joint venture, Bre-X keeping 25 percent and the two companies granting the Indonesian government a 10 percent stake.
But Bre-X said on Thursday that "the government of Indonesia appears to be seriously reconsidering its earlier decision that would have compelled Bre-X into a partnership with Barrick."
Bre-X cited a published report that suggested Indonesian President Suharto was ready to intervene in the process.
Bre-X and Barrick said last week they reached agreement on some points to form a joint venture for Busang, but outstanding issues remained and no overall agreement had been settled.
But Bre-X was still hopeful on Thursday that the negotiations for Busang could be opened up to an auction process.
"We have believed from the outset that the best interests of the Indonesian people and their economy would best be served by a truly open negotiation process for the development of this extraordinary natural resource," Walsh said in a letter to Indonesia's Minister of Mines.
Bre-X shares were still halted on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The company requested a halt on Wednesday so it could clarify statements from Jakarta. The stock closed Tuesday at C$20.50.
Revised rules for Ivory Coast's electronic cocoa and coffee auction system have been agreed to stop overbidding, a source close to discussions on the issue said.
Changes agreed between marketing board Caistab, exporters and the World Bank were expected to be put in place but no date had been set.
"Bidders will be held to the price they offer rather than the second highest bid price now applied," said the source.
"There are two main changes we have agreed which should now be applied quickly," he told Reuters, pointing to a date in late December or early 1997.
The second rule change would allow exporters to buy 15 percent of contracts previously reserved for Caistab direct sales to traders abroad if prices were right, said the source.
Existing rules mean the Caistab's 15 percent is withdrawn and submitted for later auction even when exporters are prepared to pay more than outsiders.
The rules were originally designed to ensure lots could be held back in the hope of higher offers later.
"Direct sales only act as a safety valve when traders bid more than exporters," said one observer. "The changes on that point will favour the exporters as more will remain on offer."
Contracts would also be awarded to the five highest bidders rather than one and scaled down pro rata if total demand outstripped supply. Bids are made without knowing what quantities are on offer for a particular session.
The donor-backed auction was launched on May 2 as part of a $150 million World Bank loan deal, but Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauze said at the time it could lead to distortion of contract prices.
"There is a double speculation here because the futures
market is a type of speculation and the same goes for the auctioning system," he said.
Up to 115,000 tonnes of cocoa is estimated by exporters and industry analysts to have been sold forward for 1996/97, plus another 100,000 tonnes for 1997/98, since the new screen-based system replaced telephone trading.
About 660,OOO tonnes of 1996/97 cocoa was sold before the auction opened.
Exporters told Reuters average quantities now offered at each auction session were too small.
Others said exporters had bought cocoa on the spot market but lacked Caistab contracts for shipping to clients abroad.
About 2,500 tonnes are auctioned daily, or about 20,000 tonnes in each of 50 trading weeks after allowing for about 15-20 percent destined for local production, one said.
"We would prefer two weekly sessions of 10,000 tonnes to make sure we can secure whole contracts in one go," he said. "Coffee contracts are smaller so the same problem doeen't arise there."
"Support for the system is disappearing, especially for physicals traders. Most of this year's crop is sold so we are really talking about contracts for next year," said one exporter.
The exporters' GEPEX trade body was still in talks with the Caistab this week after claims that a few firms had won too many contracts by bidding unrealistically high prices.
Exporters have said they lack the financial clout of foreign operators and face higher costs.
"It (the auction) is completely unworkable," said one exporter.
The Caistab has estimated a total of 950,000 tonnes of cocoa and 230,000 tonnes of coffee for the 1996/97 season.
Colombian lawmakers met on Thursday in an 11th hour bid to rescue a bill that would strip drug barons of their fortunes and help avoid U.S. economic sanctions.
An 11-member conference committee was debating whether to override the lower house of Congress and empower the government to seize drug-related assets accumulated over the last 20 years.
In a narrow 59-57 vote late Tuesday, the House of Representatives rejected the 20-year time limit, previously approved by the Senate, ruling instead that criminal assets could only be seized if they had been amassed after 1991.
The conference committee meeting was convened under intense pressure from President Ernesto Samper and senior ministers. They condemned the lower house's decision as a "virtual amnesty" and raised fears that the United States would impose economic sanctions on Colombia in retaliation for its failure to crack down on billionaire drug lords.
The committee is widely expected to toe the government line and send the bill back to a plenary session of Congress, recommending that the 20-year time limit be reincorporated.
Colombia's business community has taken an unusually outspoken approach and been vociferous in calls to Congress to approve an asset forfeiture law with a 20-year clause.
The United States decertified Colombia as an ally in the drug war last March. Four months later, it withdrew Samper's U.S. entry visa, citing allegations that he financed his 1994 election campaign with drug cartel cash. Foreign Relations Minister Maria Emma Mejia said earlier this week there is a very real prospect of U.S. economic sanctions starting next year.
Other anti-drug legislation that the United States has demanded, such as stiffer sentencing and the reintroduction extradition, has been watered down or sunk in Congress in recent weeks.
Hong Kong's chief executive designate Tung Chee-hwa, fresh from an overwhelming leadership victory, launched a charm offensive on Thursday aimed at winning public confidence in a smooth transition to China.
At a meeting in this Chinese frontier city, the 59-year-old Shanghai-born former shipping magnate was also endorsed as Hong Kong's future leader by the 150-member China-controlled Preparatory Committee, which is crafting the territory's future political institutions.
A beaming, animated Tung appeared at a Shenzhen news conference, vowing to make himself regularly available to the press, and promising to aim for friendly cooperative relations with Hong Kong's Democratic Party and the outgoing colonial administration.
"Have you eaten?" was his first remark as he entered a gathering of 100 Hong Kong journalists. He fielded his questions skillfully, shifting effortlessly between three languages -- Mandarin, Cantonese and English.
Tung quipped and charmed with great self-confidence and a charismatic style that would be the envy of many Chinese leaders in Beijing, not known for their skillful handling of the media.
He declared he would go on the offensive to persuade Hong Kong's 6.3 million people to trust a controversial 60-member provisional legislature which China plans to install in place of the present elected Legislative Council (Legco) when Britain hands back the colony to Beijing next July 1.
"I think you'll find the provisional legislature will have good credibility," the businessman turned politician said.
"The acceptability of the provisional legislature is gaining ground every day. I'm confident we'll find 60 people with credibility among the people of Hong Kong."
Thursday's Preparatory Committee meeting in the boomtown of Shenzhen was working on a package of procedures for selecting the legislature on December 21, the next milestone in Hong Kong's march to Chinese rule.
Hong Kong's Democratic Party has condemned the move as an attempt to snuff out the territory's embryonic democracy and vowed to challenge the legislature's legality in the courts, forcing China to consider locating the body on the mainland rather than in Hong Kong.
But Tung said he would also like to charm the Democrats by sitting down with them and "peacefully" discussing the transition problems.
Tung said he hoped to cooperate with departing governor Chris Patten and the British colonial administration. He recognised there were many difficulties but said: "Let's do what is best for Hong Kong."
He also said that Hong Kong would continue its gradual shift towards greater democracy but only at the slower pace laid down in the territory's post-1997 constitution, the Basic Law.
"We will of course move forward on the course of democracy in accordance with the Basic Law," he said. "The process has already begun. It's quite clearly defined in the Basic Law."
Tung said he had no news yet on who he planned to bring into his kitchen cabinet, the Executive Council, or whether Hong Kong's current chief civil servant Anson Chan would stay on.
"I hope she will stay, I hope she will be my deputy," he said, repeating his desire for a through-train civil service and smooth transition.
Tung also said he would go to Beijing for investiture as the Chief Executive-designate of Hong Kong but no date had been set.
China's B shares fell once again on Thursday with investors running scared in the face of reports that securities authorities would restrict mainland Chinese from trading in B shares, traders said.
Shanghai's foreign-currency B share index closed down 5.127 points or 6.35 percent to 75.558 points while Shenzhen's B index fell 11.23 points, or 6.02 percent, to 175.22.
Securities authorities in Shenzhen have contacted brokerages in the city, located across the border from Hong Kong, telling them to not accept money from domestic investors for stock purchases unless they had proof the money came from abroad, traders said.
An influx of funds from local investors has been at the heart of the spectacular rise in B shares over the past month, and fears that the tap would be turned off is making investors re-assess their positions, analysts said.
Chinese authorities have in the past expressed concern at domestic investors buying B shares, which were intended for foreign investors, saying it left locals vulnerable to the inflows and outflows of foreign money.
Shanghai stocks reacted on Thursday to the Shenzhen reports, but analysts said Shanghai securities authorities had so far not issued the same warning to the city's brokerages.
"The Shenzhen crackdown has triggered fears it will spread to Shanghai," said a trader. "Sentiment has been badly hurt."
"We have not heard of any crackdown in Shanghai. There is no indication of a crackdown here," said one foreign broker.
The broker said other factors in the Shanghai B market's fall were profit-taking and the issue of new Shanghai Diesel Engine Co Ltd B shares, which started trading today at a lower price than the company's existing shares.
He said the three largest brokerages in Shenzhen were believed to have stopped opening B share accounts for Chinese nationals.
"But large punters have ways to circumvent these regulations and have capital offshore," he said, adding that many retail investors could also easily call relatives abroad or in Hong Kong to arrange transfers.
"The CSRC (China Securities Regulatory Commission) is going for one weak link in the trading arrangements... the flow of funds," said Bruce Richardson, chief representative of HG Asia in Shanghai.
The Shanghai B index has risen 80 percent over the past month on expectations that Beijing would take measures to support the market.
"Profit-taking focused on cheap shares which rose the most during the surges of recent weeks," a trader said.
Shanghai Sanmao Textile was the biggest loser, plunging $0.072 or 20.11 percent to $0.286 on volume of 643,700 shares.
Shanghai Lianhua Fibre, which had surged 200 percent in recent weeks, was the second biggest loser, shedding $0.044 or 13.75 percent to $0.276, on heavy volume of 1.4 million shares.
Shanghai Diesel Engine, which listed an additional 85 million shares on Thursday, had the highest volume in inter-institutional trading, traders said. It lost $0.036 or 6.21 percent to $0.544 on volume of 6.0 million shares.
Shanghai's A share index closed down 70.491 points or 5.42 percent to 1230.831 points on a technical correction after repeatedly hitting three-year highs over the past few sessions, traders said. The Shanghai Stock Exchange's 30-share blue-chip index lost 111.482 points or 3.64 percent to 2952.753 points.
Brokers said A share market sentiment was still good and the index would recover next week after the powerful correction.
The most magnificent building of old Shanghai -- the former Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Bank headquarters on the waterfront Bund -- became a bank once again on Thursday, with a state-run Shanghai bank renting it from the city.
In a signing ceremony in the huge main banking hall of the building, first opened in 1925, the Shanghai Pudong Development Bank took out a 30-year lease on the structure.
The ceremony marked the failure of the city's search to find a foreign bank to rent or buy the structure, long the city's main landmark.
The city had tried to interest a foreign bank in the 24,000-square-metre building, and spent two years discussing terms with Hongkong Bank.
But they failed to reach agreement and Hongkong Bank, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, finally announced it would not to take it back.
Bankers said the city asked for an unrealistically high price and that the building was unsuited for modern banking.
The bank, once a symbol of the financial power of the British empire, was also the Shanghai headquarters of the Chinese Communist Party from 1949 until last year, when city officials moved out, leaving it empty and echoing.
The chairman of the Pudong bank, Zhuang Xiaotan, told reporters that his bank would pay an annual rent of 145 million yuan ($17.47 million) for the building, amounting to about $2 per square metre per day.
Pudong, Shanghai's main development zone across the Huangpu River from the Bund and the bank building, is earmarked to become the new financial heart of the city.
The Pudong Development Bank is building its own multi-storey headquarters there that will be ready in about the year 2000, Zhuang said.
"We will use this building as the bank's headquarters until the new building is ready," Zhuang said.
The building and the Pudong development bank are both basically owned by the Shanghai city government, and some analysts said the lease agreement had little significance.
"It's the left hand moving money to the right hand," said one analyst with a foreign bank in Shanghai.
But Zhuang denied this was the case.
"We are an independent economic unit and this is a commercial deal," he said, adding that the bank would consider sub-letting space in the huge building.
($1=8.3 yuan)
One of the hottest topics this week at an Internet show is so-called "push technology," which directly broadcasts customized news to a networked PC, but it is also already seen as the next area ripe for a shakeout.
Internet broadcasters are lead by companies like PointCast Inc., a privately-held firm in Santa Clara, Calif., which announced a major deal with Microsoft Corp on Tuesday.
PointCast of Cupertino, Calif., and several other start-up companies deliver customized news, or specific Web sites, depending on the service, to consumer or corporate users, several times a day, so that a user doesn't have to go to the Internet and wait, the content is delivered.
"Making the Internet a broadcast medium is a direction that a lot of companies are going in, but that's already really crowded," said Ted Julian, an analyst with IDC Corp.
At Internet World, there are several privately-held push technology companies that are exhibiting and demonstrating their service, and trying to differentiate themselves amid all the hype about Internet broadcasting.
PointCast was the first company to develop these systems, called personalized broadcast systems, and it now has 1.7 million subscribers. It delivers news from the New York Times, the Boston Globe, Reuters Holdings Plc, and now, MSNBC, the online venture of Microsoft and General Electric's NBC.
PointCast and most of the other startup companies all operate on the same model, which is an advertising-based model. These companies sell advertising space on their service and offer the service for free to subscribers. By building up lots of subscribers, they can gain more advertising revenue.
The deal PointCast signed Tuesday with Microsoft has the potential to significantly expand its subscriber base, because PointCast will become part of its next generation desktop software.
The Boston-based Yankee Group said in a study to be soon released that the Internet broadcasting market will significantly affect the way companies collect advertising dollars on the World Wide Web.
Yankee is predicting that by 2000, Internet broadcasting will be worth $5.7 billion in revenues.
But with many more companies arriving on the scene and Microsoft and Netscape Communications Corp getting into this market, consolidation in on the horizon, because media companies will not want to develop a channel for each delivery system, most of which for now are proprietary.
"There is no way I am going to download all four of these, and I am in the industry," said Jerry Yang, one of the founders of Yahoo! Corp. "This is a huge issue."
Even the players themselves are also predicting a shakeout, but each company predicts it will be one of the winners.
Some of the other players include Freeloader, which was recently purchased by Individual Inc. Freeloader lets subcribers customize whatever Web sites they want delivered to their desktop, plus the news that is available on Individual.
"Clearly there will be a big shakeout," said Sunil Paul, president of Freeloader. "PointCast clearly stands out and we will be one of them (survivors)."
Another talked about startup, called IFusion, is offering television-like content with video and audio in its service which will be introduced early next year, called Arrive. The company also offers development for media companies.
"Ultimately there will be some sort of shakeout and we will be left standing," said Candice Meyers, director of content development at IFusion, based in New York.
The television and entertainment industries vowed Thursday to use only their system for rating TV programmes and promised to reject -- by legal means, if necessary -- any government-imposed plan.
Following months of work, a group of TV and Hollywood executives are scheduled next week to unveil plans for a system to rate shows based on their suitability for kids of different ages, especially those under 14 years of age.
It will be similar to the 28-year-old system of letters and numbers used by the motion-picture industry and which includes the ratings G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17.
"We will not use any other TV rating guidelines other than the ones we are going to announce next week," said Jack Valenti, chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America and head of the "implementation group" developing the ratings.
But parental groups, children's advocates, educators and some key lawmakers -- including Representative Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat -- have demanded that the group include a content-based system specifying the level of sex, violence and bad language.
Lawmakers have not ruled out a legislative fix.
"It is clear that the industry has so far failed to respond adequately to the fundamental interest of parents in knowing the specific content of TV shows in advance," Markey said at a news conference accompanied by other lawmakers and groups pushing for a content-based system like the one now used by the HBO cable channel.
At a press conference responding to Markey, Valenti lashed back. He accused Markey of trying to use government as a "big brother" to impose his own scheme. And Valenti vowed not to bend under pressure and alter his group's system.
"We're not going to change a word of it. We're not going to redot an 'i' or recross a 't,'" Valenti said. "If there is any intervention by government, we're going to be in court in a nanosecond."
The Federal Communications Commission also must approve or reject the ratings system. If it were to reject it, the agency could call for development of an alternative plan -- one that Valenti said the industry would ignore.
Once the ratings are implemented in January, Valenti did say the industry would revisit the system after about a year to determine whether it should be changed or "tweaked."
"Is it perfect? Of course not. All subjective systems are flawed. So is ours," Valenti said.
The ratings -- expected to include six broad categories -- will not apply to news, news magazine shows such as "60 Minutes" or sports. TV networks and syndicators will issue the ratings, with the categories "mingling" age and content, according to Valenti.
Proposed guidelines leaked to the media include two for children: "TV-K" for kids and suitable for all ages; and "TV-K7" for children older than seven.
The other four are: "TV-G" for general audiences; "TV-PG," parental guidance suggested; "TV-14" for parents strongly cautioned; and "TV-M" for mature audiences only.
The rating are to be used in conjunction with a "V-chip" installed in TV sets that allow parents to block out shows they consider too violent or racy.
The HBO system, developed in the mid-80s, offers ratings such as "MV" for "mild violence," "SC" for "strong sexual content" and "AL" for "adult language."
But Valenti said that system is unworkable and is too complicated to appear in TV listings in the newspaper.
He also said a 19-member monitoring and oversight group will be created to oversee the new ratings. It will include a chairman and representives from the creative side of the industry, TV broadcasters and the cable-TV industry.
Bre-X Minerals Ltd. and Barrick Gold Corp. are trying to forge an alliance to mine the huge Busang gold deposit in Indonesia despite a cloud of uncertainty over the rights to the find, Bre-X's chief executive said Thursday.
But the negotiations with Barrick are progressing slowly, Bre-X Chief Executive Officer David Walsh told Reuters.
"We're moving ahead, albeit at a snail's pace," he said, adding that legal issues stood in the way of a full agreement. "We're trying to get them to appreciate our views and the legal stance that we've taken."
Last month the Indonesian government advised Bre-X to form a joint venture with Toronto-based Barrick to operate Busang. The government, which also requested a 10 percent stake, set a Dec. 4 deadline, but the two companies announced after that date that several issues remained outstanding.
Since then, the Indonesian government has raised doubts about Bre-X's grip on Busang, estimated to contain at least 57 million ounces of gold, worth about $21 billion at today's prices.
"The government has stopped processing the previous application for contracts of work by Bre-X because of various problems," Umar Said, Indonesia's secretary-general of mines, told Reuters in Jakarta on Thursday. "Therefore the previous application by Bre-X that has been delayed must be stopped and must be said to have been cancelled."
He said Bre-X and Barrick must jointly submit new applications for work on the deposit. Without contracts of work granted by the Indonesian government, Bre-X cannot proceed to exploit the find.
Walsh defended his company, saying its permits and applications for the gold property were "in good standing."
He said two Bre-X officials met with Umar in Jakarta Thursday and were assured everything was in line. "The telephone call that I got from Rolie (Francisco), he was quite pleased with the meeting. He said we're making very good progress in our relationship (with the mines ministry)," Walsh said.
Bre-X spokesman Steve McAnulty, explaining the apparent contradiction, said: "What the government wants to do in essence is that if an agreement with Barrick is made, the existing applications will be replaced with new applications."
Bre-X earlier said that Umar had apologised for the misunderstanding, saying his comments were "erroneously reported in a Dec. 11 Reuters newswire article." But Peter Thomas, a Reuter spokesman in London, said the international news and information company was confident the quotations in its Dec. 11 story from Jakarta were accurate.
Umar's comments to Reuters Thursday were essentially repeating what he said on Wednesday.
Despite a barrage of statements from Bre-X on Thursday, Barrick was still seeking clarification on the situation from the Indonesian government.
"We're still seeking clarification and we want to hear directly from the government of Indonesia," Barrick spokesman Vince Borg said in Toronto. "We're not saying anything until we talk directly to the government of Indonesia."
Bre-X, too, is waiting for the Indonesian government to make a move.
Walsh said he still had high hopes that Indonesian President Suharto would open up an auction for Busang, allowing other mining companies to bid on the project. He said Bre-X had not made a formal request for an auction, but added: "We understand that the president is reviewing the situation."
An auction would be advantageous for Bre-X shareholders and for Indonesia, he said. "We're not soliciting offers. We are getting other phone calls," Walsh said. "I am talking to principals of other companies."
He said he had spoken to executives at Placer Dome Inc., Newmont Mining Corp. and Teck Corp.
In Vancouver, Placer Dome spokesman Hugh Leggatt said any suggestion of an open auction on Busang was encouraging. His company has made a formal request for an open bidding process.
But gold mining analyst Bill Belovay of CIBC Wood Gundy said Barrick's competitors may be trying to make a deal with Bre-X more expensive for Barrick. "They're playing games," he said. "One has got to read between the lines."
Belovay said Busang was so fraught with uncertainty that he has a hard time understanding why the major gold producers would be interested. "One doesn't even know what percentage (Barrick) will end up with. One doesn't even know how to keep Suharto happy," he said. "To me it's a whole big nightmare."
Investors were confused by Thursday's developments, analysts said.
Bre-X, whose stock was halted all day on Wednesday, fell 85 cents to C$19.80 in heavy trading of more than 8.6 million shares. Barrick, which lost C$2.75 on Wednesday, regained C$1 to C$39.50 in trading of more than 2 million shares.
The Securities and Investments Board (SIB), responsible for overseeing financial regulation in Britain, has clamped down on the use of stockmarket derivatives to profit from inside information.
SIB said on Thursday that firms should ensure they do not use derivatives to buy or sell stakes for themselves or customers where inside information would have prevented them from doing so in the open market.
Front-line regulators such as the Securities and Futures Authority are to have day-to-day responsibility for enforcing the guidance, designed to ban the improper use of inside information in the derivatives market.
Derivatives such as futures or options, are financial instruments derived from the value of an underlying asset such as a stock or a bond.
The 1993 Criminal Justice Act which made insider dealing a criminal offence only covers individuals, but firms are expected to observe the spirit, as well as the letter, of the new advice, said SIB.
It also said that firms should not rely on arguments about equality of information' -- that the information is widely known -- to justify such stakes, even where this defence could be relied on in relation to the criminal law.
Neither should they rely on the defence, called bid facilitation', if taking a stake provides only a cash benefit rather than a step towards completing a takeover bid for a client.
The SIB said its advice was based partly on the standards set in the criminal law on insider dealing, and that authorised firms are required under SIB principles to meet a higher standard in some areas than may be imposed on individuals by the criminal law.
The SIB published a consultative paper on the issue in June.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7721
Australia-based transport equipment hire and logistics firm, Brambles Industries Ltd, reported a 15.8 percent profit lift for the 1995/96 year on Friday, despite flat Australian and European economies.
Surging profits from Brambles' U.S. and European CHEP pallet hire joint venture with Britain's GKN Plc compensated for otherwise slow growth from Australia, the company said.
"The continuing improvement in our performance reflects, in part, the successful rationalisation of our wholly owned businesses and strong growth from our CHEP joint ventures," Brambles Chief Executive John Fletcher said.
"CHEP USA, in particular, continues to justify our confidence in its long-term growth prospects in the region," he said in Brambles' profit statement.
Brambles' net profit rose 120.2 percent to A$215.1 million (US$169.9 million) for the year to June 30 from A$97.7 million in 1994/95. The previous year's result was undermined by an abnormal loss of $112.3 million.
Stripping away abnormals, profit for 1995/96 rose 15.8 percent to A$214.8 million, at the top end of analysts' expectations.
Pre-tax profits rose 13 percent and 30 percent from Europe and the United States respectively, while Australian profits rose eight percent.
"Overseas profits grew at twice the rate in Australia and the trend is likely to continue," Fletcher said.
"In particular we expect further contributions from CHEP in Europe and North America," he said.
Fletcher later told Reuters this strong performance from Brambles' non-Australian operations had encouraged it to actively look at further acquisitions outside Australia.
"You should anticipate some acquisition work in the Northern Hemisphere, but in businesses we already operate in here," he said, referring to areas like transport equipment rentals and records managements.
Looking ahead, he said strong contributions from the United States and Europe should continue to offset soft Australian conditions and help produce profit growth.
"We haven't got an expectation that we will get too much help from this economy...for at least another six months," he said. "But all in all we've got enough things going to see another (profit) increase for this year," he said.
The result generally pleased analysts, who also pointed to the strong U.S. pallet operations as the main bullish note.
"CHEP USA is the outstanding area," said Macquarie Equities analyst Ian Myles.
"As long as they're saying positive things about CHEP in the USA then they'll be alright and there's a reasonable amount of momentum there," another Sydney transport analyst said.
Brambles' shares closed up five cents at A$18.90 against a soft market overall.
(A$=US$0.79)
Australia-based transport equipment hire and logistics firm, Brambles Industries Ltd, reported a 15.8 percent profit lift for the 1995/96 year on Friday despite flat Australian and European economies.
Surging profits from Brambles' U.S. and European CHEP pallet hire joint venture with Britain's GKN Plc compensated for otherwise slow growth from Australia, the company said.  
"The continuing improvement in our performance reflects, in part, the successful retionalisation of our wholly owned businesses and strong growth from our CHEP joint ventures," Brambles Chief Executive John Fletcher said.
"CHEP USA, in particular, continues to justify our confidence in its long term growth prospects in the region," he said in Bramble's profit statements.
Brambles' net profit rose to A$215.1 million (US$169.9 million) for the year to June 30, 1997 from A$97.7 million in 1994/95, but the previous year's result was undermined by a large abnormal loss.  
Pre-abnormal profits for 1995/96 rose 15.8 percent to A$214.8 million, at the top end of analysts' expectations.
Pre-tax profits rose 13 percent and 30 percent from Europe and the United States respectively, while Australian profits rose eight percent.
"Overseas profits grew at twice the rate in Australia and the trend is likely to continue," Fletcher said.
"In particular we expect further contributions from CHEP in Europe and North America," he said.  
Fletcher later told Reuters this strong peformance from Bramble's non-Australian operations had encouraged it to actively look at further acquisitions outside Australia.
"You should anticipate some acquisition work in the Northern Hemisphere, but in businesses we already operate in here," he said, referring to areas like transport equipment rentals and records managements.
Looking ahead, he said strong contributions from the United States and Europe should continue to offset soft Australian conditions and help produce profit growth.  
