"We haven't got an expectation that we will get too much help from this economy ... for at least another six months," he said. "But all in all we've got enough things going to see another (profit) increase for this year," he added.
The result generally pleased analysts, who also pointed to the strong U.S. pallet operations as the main bullish note.
"CHEP USA is the outstanding area," said Macquarie Equities analyst Ian Myles.
"As long as they're saying positive things about CHEP in the USA then they'll be alright and there's a reasonable amount of momentum there," another Sydney transport analyst said.  
Brambles' shares closed up five cents at A$18.90 against a soft market overall.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Australia-based transport, logistics and security group Brambles Industries Ltd said it was actively considering acquisitions in United States, Europe and Asia in the current year.
Brambles chief executive John Fletcher told Reuters in an interview that Brambles would only look at acquisitions in areas where it had Australian experience.
"You should anticipate some acquisition work in the Northern Hemisphere, but in businesses we already operate in here," he said.  
"Anything new we'll do on home turf," he said.
Fletcher repeated that Brambles was looking at participating in the privatisation of Australia's airports being carried out before June next year.
Fletcher said the vehicle for airport investment would be Bramble's joint venture company, Australian Airport Services, formed with property and financial services company, Lend Lease Corp Ltd.
Brambles would look at acquisitions in the Northern Hemisphere in the industrial services, waste management, equipment rentals and records management areas.  
Earlier Brambles reported a 120.2 percent jump in net profit to A$215.1 million for the year to June 30, 1996. Before abnormals, the net profit rose 15.8 percent to A$214.8 million, at the upper end of analysts' expectations of A$208 million to A$214 million.
Fletcher said the result would have been a bit ahead of brokers' expectations.
"It's a marginally pleasant result rather than a huge shock," he said.
Strong growth in earnings from Brambles CHEP pallet business in the United States helped boost the results.  
Fletcher said the Australian economy, which provides the bulk of Bramble's earnings, remained flat and was expected to remain so for some time.
"We haven't got an expectation that we will get too much help from this economy ... for at least another six months," he said.
The U.S. economy remained strong while Europe and Britain were flat, he said.
"But all in all we've got enough things going to see another (profit) increase for this year," he said.  
Profits from Brambles overseas operations grew at twice the rate of those from local economies and this trend was likely to continue.
This continued overseas growth would however affect the allocation of franking credits on dividends.
"The continuing growth expected in overseas earnings meant that the company would need to reduce moderately the level of franking of dividends declared on 1996/97 earnings," Fletcher said in an earlier statement.
Recipients of franked dividends receive tax credits for Australian company tax already paid by the companies involved.  
Brambles posted a 35 cents per share fully franked final dividend for 1995/96, up from a 33 cents per share final dividend in 1994/95.
The total dividend rose to 69 cents per share from 65 cents.
Earnings per share rose to 97.6 cents from 84.8 cents.
Brambles' shares were down five cents at A$18.80 at 3.40 p.m. (0540 GMT).
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800
Shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa made his first appearance in China as Hong Kong's leader-in-waiting on Thursday as Beijing prepared the next milestone in the British colony's transition to Chinese rule.
In a one-day meeting on Thursday in Shenzhen, just over the border from Hong Kong, Tung was endorsed as successor to colonial governor Chris Patten by the 150-member Beijing-picked Preparatory Committee, which is crafting the territory's political future.
Britain hands Hong Kong back to China on July 1.
Tung, 59, was selected as the post-handover leader in Hong Kong on Wednesday by a separate 400-member body carefully assembled by Beijing, smothering his two rivals by winning 80 percent of the votes.
At the Preparatory Committee meeting in Shenzhen, presided over by Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, Tung was greeted with hearty applause, smiles and back-patting as he entered the hall.
"We have already completed the selection of the first Chief Executive of Hong Kong... Tung Chee-hwa received the majority vote of 320," said senior Chinese envoy Lu Ping, director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office.
Preparatory Committee Vice Chairman Wang Hanbin urged delegates to show their support for China's endorsement of Tung.
"If you don't have any objection, then approve it by applauding," Wang said, prompting the delegates, who include some of Hong Kong's top business leaders, to begin clapping.
In a meeting with reporters later, Tung reiterated his hope that Anson Chan, Hong Kong's popular chief secretary and head of the civil service, would stay on as his deputy.
"I haven't decided on my deputy, I hope Anson Chan will stay and I hope she can be my deputy," Tung said.
Tung said he would also work closely with the current British-led government to promote Hong Kong in the final months of colonial rule and ensure a smooth transition.
Tung's selection was met with scuffles, anger and apathy on Wednesday in Hong Kong, where pro-democracy activists and politicans denounced the selection process as undemocratic and condemned the magnate's appointment.
In addition to endorsing Tung's appointment on behalf of the Beijing government, Thursday's Preparatory Committee meeting in Shenzhen will also discuss a package of procedures for establishing a provisional legislature on December 21 that will replace Hong Kong's elected chamber with the handover.
The legislature plan has been strongly opposed by Hong Kong pro-democracy groups, which see it as a move to crush freedom and introduce repressive laws.
An official said the gathering was also expected to discuss a move by Britain to introduce a lenient anti-subversion law in Hong Kong before the handover. A Preparatory Committee legal sub-group has recommended repealing the British law.
Tung has said he would take a hard line against meddling by provincial Chinese bosses who may disregard Beijing's edict that Hong Kong be a Special Administrative Region of China with considerable autonomy in governing its own affairs.
Hong Kong's Economic Times newspaper said China was expected to rank the future chief executive as equal to a state councillor.
This position, one level below vice-premier, would mean he outranks provincial governors and will help discourage interference in Hong Kong affairs by regional cadres, it said.
A break-in at the U.S. Justice Department's World Wide Web site last week highlighted the Internet's continued vulnerability to hackers.
Unidentified hackers gained access to the department's web page on August 16 and replaced it with a hate-filled diatribe labelled the "Department of Injustice" that included a swastika and a picture of Adolf Hitler.
Justice officials quickly pulled the plug on the vandalised page, but the security flaws that allowed hackers to gain entry likely exist in thousands of other corporate and government web sites, security experts said.
"The vast majority of sites are vulnerable," said Richard Power, senior analyst at the Computer Security Institute. "The Justice Department shouldn't be singled out."
Justice Department officials said the compromised web site was not connected to any computers containing sensitive files. The web site (http://www.usdoj.gov) included copies of press releases, speeches and other publicly available information.
The security breach "is just like graffiti on the outside of the building," spokesman Bert Brandenburg said.
Other organisations have been targeted in the past. Last year, the Nation of Islam's Million Man March web site was vandalised. And hackers make 250,000 attempts annually to break into U.S. military computers, according to a General Accounting Office report.
Windows Magazine recently found security flaws at web sites of a dozen major corporations. "The web is spectacularly insecure," editor Mike Elgan said. Relying on security holes that had been documented by software manufacturers months earlier, the magazine's specialists were able to gain various degrees of unauthorised access at the different sites.
Elgan said hackers who are exploiting some of the same flaws are motivated by anger over the growth and commercialization of the Internet. "A common theme is that hackers are fed up with non-hackers on the Internet," he said.
The battle is not completely hopeless. "You can secure a web site," Richard Power said. "There's all kinds of measures you can take. Most corporations and institutions don't take them simply because nothing bad has happened to them yet."
Some sites are using multiple layers of security, well beyond simple password protection, to keep hackers out.
One site mentioned by Windows Magazine was Fidelity Investments. Fidelity's site advertises its mutual funds and disseminates information about personal finance but does not contain confidential customer information.
Fidelity officials immediately closed the loophole identified by the magazine, a spokeswoman said. But multiple security measures previously in place would have prevented a security breach despite the hole, the spokeswoman added.
China charged on Thursday that politics was holding up its application for entry to the world trade body, the World Trade Organisation (WTO), and said it wanted to join as soon as possible,
"The accession of the applicants to the WTO has been slowed down due to political consideration and the excessive demand for immediate commercial benefits," China's Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Long Yongtu told the WTO ministerial meeting in Singapore.
In a thinly veiled attack on the United States, Long accused some members of taking advantage of the negotiation process to resolve bilateral trade disputes not relevant to WTO rules.
"As a result, some accession negotiations have encountered undue delay, which has slowed down the process of economic globalisation," he said.
China was bitterly disappointed when it failed in its decade-long bid to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade by becoming a founding member of the WTO at its inception two years ago.
Beijing has met particularly stiff resistance from the United States, which disputes Beijing's demand it join as a developing country and says the size of China's economy means it should enter as a developed nation.
The United States also says Beijing must comply with a "road map" to open its markets and eliminate trade and non-trade barriers before it can win U.S. support for its entry.
Beijing maintains the price of the road map is too high, and talks continue at a snail's pace at WTO headquarters in Geneva.
"The Chinese government has consistently held a positive attitude towards joining the WTO not because we believe the membership will bring out miracles to our economy and foreign trade," he said.
He welcomed an initiative by the European Union to support phased accession for China.
"We...hope the positive attitude will be translated into actions in resolving specific actions in the negotation," Long said.
"On our part, we shall take a flexible, pragmatic and forward-looking attitude and in the hope that other members will do likewise," Long said.
Long said China was keen to join the world trade body as soon as possible and repeated Beijing's official stand that exclusion of the world's fastest-growing economy from the WTO would benefit no one.
Asked when Beijing hoped to see accesion, Long said Beijing had never specified a timetable, but added: "We hope it can be rather quickly."
Senior Chinese analyst Pei Changhong said in an interview last week that China was unlikely to concede on its demand to enter the WTO as a developing country and had the patience to hunker down for a long wait to win accession on its terms.
A goal of 1997 entry seemed an ambitious target given the distance between the United States and China on so many issues, but Pei said he hoped to see entry by 1999.
China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said last month that talks with the United States on entry could be wrapped up by mid-1997.
China and Britain moved closer on Friday to removing some obstacles to Hong Kong's smooth transfer to Chinese sovereignty next year, but fresh controversies raised new potential hurdles.
Agreements took shape on issues of handover ceremonies and budgets but quarrels brewed over China's moves to appoint new political leaders for Hong Kong.
Hong Kong government radio quoted diplomats saying London and Beijing were closing in on an agreement on a ceremony to mark Hong Kong's handover to China next June 30/July 1 and that the deal might be announced next month.
The sources signalled progress in informal talks and that a basic accord could be forged before foreign ministers of the two nations meet at the United Nations General Assembly in New York next month, the government-run radio said.
Differences over handover ceremonies have posed a stumbling block in negotiations on the sovereignty transfer, especially the question of what role Governor Chris Patten will play.
At the same time concrete progress was announced in talks on Hong Kong's next budget, which will straddle the handover date.
British and Chinese negotiators agreed on ways to allocate resources for the 1997/98 budget, Chinese senior official Chen Zuo'er told reporters after the latest talks.
Chen announced agreement on spending guidelines, maximum spending limits and procedures for dealing with new requests for money from the budget. Hong Kong Treasury Secretary K.C. Kwong was upbeat about the breakthrough.
"We have in the past few days had very positive pragmatic discussions on the preparation of the 1997-98 Budget," he said.
"We have for all practical purposes completed the preparatory stage of the resource allocation exercise," he said.
"Our next step will be to consider the bids for new resources from branches and departments."
But prospects of a smooth handover on the political front appear less bright. A Beijing official was quoted as saying a list of names of people being nominated by the public to sit on a caucus that will pick the first post-colonial legislature and governor, the chief executive, would not be made public.
The official was quoted by the South China Morning Post as saying some nominees might not want their names to be publicised and that only the nominees would have the right to see the list.
"This whole fiasco is too much. The whole thing is such a sham," pro-democracy legislator Emily Lau told Reuters.
"Perhaps they feel some important people will be embarrassed if they are not picked. The whole process lacks transparency and accountability and credibility."
The Wen Wei Po newspaper, flagship of Beijing's propaganda machine in Hong Kong, attacked Britain on Friday for trying to amend Hong Kong's laws in order to preserve London's influence after 1997.
The salvo came just a day after the paper criticised Britain's chief handover negotiator, Hugh Davies, accusing him of touting Britain's own favourite for post-1997 leader.
Davies' office dismissed the claim as ludicrous but Chinese spokesman Zhang Junsheng told reporters: "The British side should not meddle, and has no right to poke its nose in. This is entirely a matter for China."
China on Thursday warned the United States to stop selling arms to Taiwan, saying the issue could ruin relations despite the friendly smiles shown on Defence Minister Chi Haotian's current U.S. visit.
Washington's arms sales to Beijing's island rival would destroy the warming Sino-U.S. relationship that was vital for maintaining regional and world peace, the official China Daily said in a commentary.
"To continue to sell weapons to Taiwan will upset Washington's apple cart and eventually ruin Sino-U.S. relations," the commentary said.
Although Chi Haotian's long-delayed visit to the United States could help renew bilateral ties, Washington's policy towards Taiwan would continue to be a sore point in relations between the two Pacific giants, the commentary said.
"A friendly smile cannot ignore or wipe away the underlying embarrassment that exists bewteen the two countries," it said.
"The ties can be broken if the U.S. continues to sell advanced weapons and military equipment to Taiwan."
Chi is on a two-week fence-mending visit that was postponed twice by wrangling over Taiwan.
Taiwan's procurement of U.S. weapons would only undermine peaceful reunification with mainland China by fanning sentiment for independence on the island, the commentary said.
"The sale of weapons to Taiwan will whip up whatever dreams of independence some people are harbouring on the island," it said, adding that Beijing would seek reunification at any cost.
"The Chinese government will not stand idly by and ignore any challenge to that goal," the commentary said, echoing a blunt speech Chi delivered to U.S. military officers on Tuesday.
Chi held talks with President Bill Clinton and Defence Secretary William Perry on Monday, pointedly refusing to renounce Beijing's right to retake Taiwan by force if necessary.
Beijing and Taipei split at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949 when the Nationalist army fled into exile on the island off the mainland's southeastern coast.
Sino-U.S. relations were strained in March when Washington sent two aircraft carriers to waters near Taiwan in the wake of missile tests and military exercises held by Beijing to intimidate the island in the run-up to its first direct presidential elections.
Washington recognises communist Beijing as the sole legal representative of all China but maintains the right to arm and even defend the island that Beijing regards as a renegade province.
Taiwan's Defence Minister Chiang Chung-ling said on Wednesday he was not worried that the thaw in U.S.-China military ties would harm the island's ability to procure advanced weapons from the United States.
Two days before Chi arrived in the United States, the U.S. Army announced it had awarded a $63 million contract to a Boeing Co unit to produce 74 high-tech Avenger anti-aircraft missile systems for Taiwan.
Taiwan has also been allowed to buy Patriot anti-missile missile batteries from U.S. defence giant Raytheon Co.
The Avengers and Patriots are to enter service by 1999, boosting the island's defences against China's People's Liberation Army.
China endorsed Hong Kong's Tung Chee-hwa on Thursday as the man to lead the territory after it reverts to Chinese rule in 1997.
The 59-year-old shipping magnate proved the overwhelming choice of a Beijing-vetted panel to lead the territory after the British pull down the flag, ending more than 150 years of colonial rule.
The Preparatory Committee, the 150-strong body of prominent Hong Kong and Chinese citizens established to manage the handover, extended China's recognition of Tung's new role at a session in the southern China boomtown of Shenzhen.
The endorsement was proposed by Preparatory Committee vice-chairman Wang Hanbin. "If you don't have any objection, then approve it by applauding," Wang said.
The delegates, who include some of Hong Kong wealthiest and most powerful tycoons and deal-makers, dutifully clapped in unison.
Tung, whose father fled the Chinese communist revolution in 1949, will take over the helm when the colony reverts to China in 201 days' time, at midnight on June 30.
Tung said on Thursday that China's role in bailing out his family shipping empire when it ran into trouble a decade ago would not affect his leadership.
"Gratitude is one thing. Being the chief executive is another. The chief executive has to put interests of Hong Kong people before anything else," Tung said in an interview with Cable Television.
Hong Kong newspapers, many of which had prepared celebratory issues ahead of Wednesday's poll in which Tung eclipsed his two rivals by taking 80 percent of votes cast, heralded him as proof that Hong Kong people could run Hong Kong.
Tung has said he will take a hard line against meddling by provincial bosses who may seek to disregard Beijing's edict that Hong Kong will be a Special Administrative Region of China with considerable autonomy in governing its own affairs.
Hong Kong's Economic Times newspaper said China was expected to rank the future chief executive equal in status to a state councillor.
This position, one level below vice-premier, would mean he outranks provincial governors and would help ensure against interference in Hong Kong affairs by regional cadres, it said.
Tung's victory was considered a foregone conclusion in Hong Kong, where he has been regarded as China's man since President Jiang Zemin singled him out for a pointed handshake in January.
The Preparatory Committee is scheduled to address during the afternoon session what promises to be its most controversial task -- setting the ground rules for a Provisional Legislature in Hong Kong to replace the existing elected chamber.
China, angered by the reforms spearheaded by British Governor Chris Patten, vowed to neutralise them by dissolving Hong Kong's legislature when it takes control.
Navigating this potential minefield could prove Tung's biggest immediate headache.
Opposition in Hong Kong to the new chamber is stiff and many people are deeply concerned about the confusion that may arise if two rival legislatures jockey for power in the final six months of British rule.
The Internet browser wars heated up Monday as market leader Netscape Communications Corp launched its latest Navigator software and officials of rival Microsoft Corp. said they saw little new.
Netscape, countering Microsoft's high-profile launch of its Internet Explorer 3.0 last week, said it had linked up with more than 20 content providers, including The New York Times and Sportsline USA, to offer tailored news and information to users.
Microsoft last week made a similar offer, saying that users who download its new browser would get free trial subscriptions to The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition, ESPN SportsZone and other services.
While Netscape has a commanding lead in the growing browser market, with a share estimated at over 80 percent, industry analysts say Microsoft's latest software poses a threat to that dominance.
"I'd say at the very minimum Microsoft has leveled the playing field, and the real battle can now begin," said Adam Schoenfeld of the Jupiter Communications research firm.
Microsoft said more than 1 million users had downloaded its browser off the Internet since it became available last Tuesday.
Microsoft stock fell 75 cents to $123.50 a share, while Netscape dropped $2.375 to $36.50, its lowest close since October.
In launching the latest version of Navigator, Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape highlighted a new electronic mail feature that will deliver information from selected content providers directly to the user's computer "in box."
The new software also offers enhanced audio, video and three-dimensional animation.
In a statement sent to reporters, Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft called Netscape's new electronic mail feature "glorified junk mail" and said its own Internet Explorer offers faster access to multimedia clips.
On its World Wide Web site, Microsoft was less blunt but invited users to try both products and compare.
"We're confident that in this scenario Internet Explorer 3.0 will fare very well," Microsoft said in the Web statement.
Schoenfeld agreed, saying, "To the average user now, the products are probably indistinguishable in terms of quality."
Microsoft also pointed out that its product is free, while Netscape charges most users a $49 license fee after a free 90-day trial period.
While Navigator is available for a variety of computer platforms, the new version of Internet Explorer so far requires Microsoft's most recent operating systems, Windows 95 or Windows NT.
Microsoft officials said versions for previous versions of Windows and for Apple Computer Inc.'s Macintosh system were forthcoming.
Analysts said while the rapidly expanding Internet market was big enough for both players, Netscape was certain to see its share of the browser market diminish.
They said the browser war was likely to become even more intense when Microsoft unveiled its Internet Explorer version 4.0, expected early next year.
The new browser will be integrated into the Windows operating system, allowing users to "browse" through their local computer as well as the Internet.
"Netscape doesn't own the operating system, so it will be very difficult for them to counter that," said Michael Wallace of UBS Securities.
Telefonica de Espana, the leading telephone group in the Spanish speaking world, on Friday dismissed concerns that new rivals would force its prices and profits down and said it saw robust growth.
"The wind is behind us. The growth is there," Juan Villalonga Navarro, Telefonica's new chairman and chief executive, told Reuters in an interview in London.
The $20 billion company, which serves a market of more than 300 million customers mainly in Spain and South America, faces its first home competitor in the form of state broadcaster Retevision SA next year.
The Spanish government, which also plans to float the last 21 percent tranche of Telefonica early next year, will award a third licence in early 1998, completing telecommunications liberalisation by the end of the same year.
Villalonga, 43, who joined Spain's biggest company in June, insisted that the firm would weather the uncertainty of rivals moving into its markets by streamlining businesses and riding on a wave of increased demand -- especially for mobile telephones.
Spain's mobile telephone market was growing faster than any in Europe and in four years, penetration would jump from seven to 27 percent, he said.
Double digit growth is also expected in South America. In Peru, it is forecast to rise to 10 percent from six percent, Chile will see growth of 21 percent from a current 14 percent and growth in Argentina will jump to 28 percent from 10 percent.
"Obviously we will lose market share (through competition) but this will be compensated for by the growth of the market and an increase in efficiency," Villalonga stated.
Telefonica plans to slash its 69,000-strong workforce in Spain by 11,000 over the next four to five years.
Telefonica has been long hailed by analysts, who have called it both "one of the best stocks in Spain" with a rising income stream and falling financial costs and "one of the best strategically positioned operators in Europe".
Villalonga thanks what he calls the company's "unbelievable track record of success" for its strategy of breaking into new markets by taking minority stakes, keeping the old management and linking up with "very, very strong local partners".
Analysts say Telefonica's robust third quarter profits in August confirm 20 percent earnings growth estimates for the year -- a second year of high growth.
But rather than a one-off to impress prior to the final sale of government stock, analysts such as brokers UBS say they believe the company is more than able to sustain high earnings growth and say the shares, that have surged more than 20 percent since October, should be bought up to 3,300 pesetas.
The stock ended trade at 2,875 pesetas on Friday.
There have been delays in releasing details about the impending flotation of the state's last 197 million Telefonica shares -- at current share prices worth about 566 billion pesetas ($4.3 billion). Spain's financial media is tipping a 60 percent of the total offer will go to retail investors.
While Villalonga declined to comment on the sell-off, newspapers say five to six percent of the offer will be put aside for Spanish institutional buyers, with the rest going to foreign institutions.
Broker Morgan Stanley, global coordinator for the international tranche of the offer, argues that competition will take longer to become a harsh reality than suggested by the official European Union January 1, 1998 timetable and in the meantime investors face "years more of nice, fat cash flows".
But the broker noted recently: "We think we are right on this, although we are becoming distinctly more nervous."
($1=130.0 Peseta)
This year's rally at the Toronto Stock Exchange, Canada's biggest equity market, will stretch through 1997 and may last until the turn of the century, analysts forecast.
"I think the Toronto Stock Exchange is in the middle of a bull market," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist with Oppenheimer &amp; Co Inc in New York.
Canadian equities investors have enjoyed spectacular gains this year. Toronto's key 300 Composite Index jumped as much as 28 percent in 1996 and was now up 21 percent after a correction this month.
By contrast, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which Toronto generally tracks, was up 23 percent this year, down from a peak of 26 percent.
Analysts said Toronto's market -- the 10th most active worldwide -- would continue to benefit from poor bond yields, which make stocks more attractive.
Bond yields have dropped across the board this year, with 50 basis points shaved off the return of Canada's 30-year benchmark bonds.
Most of the seven analysts polled by Reuters said Toronto's 300 index next year would break its all-time high of 6018 points, set on November 28. The index was at about 5700 on Friday.
Analysts' median estimate for the 300 index was 6600 points by the end of 1997, rising to 7600 by 1998's close.
"We're in a general long-term uptrend," said Katherine Beattie, technical analyst for MMS International in Toronto. "The stock market is still going to be the best place to invest given the relatively low interest rates."
"We will start inching up, but even if we do get two or three interest rate hikes in the first couple of quarters next year - which I think is going to cause a correction in the markets - it's not going to put bonds or bills at a competitive enough level," Beattie said.
Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at brokerage ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Canadian equities were being snapped up by the large baby boom population, which was now focusing on generating wealth for retirement amid the uncertain future of government pensions.
"I think that basically we're into fairly firm markets right through until the end of the century," Ketchen said. "Demographics are certainly helping here."
Josef Schachter, president of Schachter Asset Management Inc, predicted Toronto's heavily weighted resource sectors could push the 300 index to 7000 by the end of 1997 and to at least 8500 a year later.
"I see (it) potentially higher than that if we can get precious metals...and base metals joining the party," Schachter said.
Montreal-based portfolio consultant Ron Meisels forecast th index would climb to 8000 by the end of 1998 and 10000 by the year 2000.
But some analysts were more bearish, with John Ing, president of Toronto-based Maison Placements Canada Inc, predicting the index would sink to 5750 by the end of 1997 and 5400 by the end of 1998.
Ing said interest rate hikes would cut short the party.
"The inevitable increase in rates has got to happen sometime within the next 12 months and that will test the markets," Ing said.
The Czech Agriculture Ministry on Friday halted a shipment of U.S. maize thought to contain genetically-manipulated strains, pending further study on its effects.
Until the study is finished no maize from the shipment will be distributed in the Czech Republic, it added.
Frantisek Havir of the ministry's agriculture production section said the Institute for Agricultural Production would conduct the study as soon as possible.
"The state Veterinary Administration is halting the shipment of maize...until it is decided whether these genes can pass into the food chain," Havir said.
On Thursday, protestors in Hamburg disrupted loading of the shipment, chaining themselves to the trains bound for the Czech Republic, where laws regulating how genetically manipulated products should be treated do not exist.
The exact location of the 33,000 tonne shipment was unknown, but the Czech chapter of Greenpeace carried on with the protest on Friday, with five demonstrators dressing up as laboratory rabbits.
"Today, the issue is that there is a precedent being made. There is no legislation in the Czech Republic regulating dealing with genetically-modified materials," said Vaclav Masku of Greenpeace.
The protests are the latest of several blockades in Europe in recent weeks aimed a halting the import of genetically altered soybeans, and now maize.
It is illegal to market such modified maize in the EU, though Greenpeace says cargoes may have already reached Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Portugal.
An EU Commission is due to decide on December 18 whether to allow imports of such modified maize, made in the U.S. under licence by Swiss chemicals company Ciba  CIGZsn.S Geigy AG.
U.S. exporters do not separate the maize, estimated to amount to 0.6 percent of their crop, from conventional maize.
Havir, who met Greenpeace protestors before the news conference, said the Czechs would cooperate with the EU in any way possible, in addition to conducting its own study.
But he added: "Genetically-modified commodities do not have to be dangerous. Their usage is a great advance in agriculture."
Colombian lawmakers bowed to intense government pressure on Thursday and put the bite back into a bill to strip drug barons of their ill-gotten gains.
If the legislation survives a congressional plenary vote -- likely to be plain sailing after a stormy passage -- it could go some way to appeasing the United States, which has threatened to slap economic sanctions on Colombia for its perceived failure to crack down on billionaire drug barons.
A conference committee hauled the asset forfeiture bill back from the brink by reversing a decision by the lower house which would have taken the teeth out of the law.
In a narrow vote on Tuesday, the House of Representatives rejected the provision, previously approved in the Senate, that would empower the government to seize drug-related assets accumulated over the last 20 years.  The House ruled the law could only be retroactive to 1991, leaving much of the property amassed by the jailed Cali Cartel kingpins, estimated at more than $50 billion, untouched.
Justice Minister Carlos Medellin, who like a handful of other top ministers spent much of the day lobbying key lawmakers in the halls of Congress, was buoyed by the committee's decision.
"Now we just have to see if the plenary session of the Senate and Chamber of Representatives approves the decision. But I don't think there will be any problem," he said.
Colombia's business community also heaved a sigh of relief. It had campaigned for Congress to approve the 20-year time limit in a series of pleas over the last two days. Key export sectors of the economy are likely to be hardest hit if U.S. sanctions are imposed.
Even though the asset forfeiture law now seems to have reached high ground, the road back into the good books of the United States still promises to be rocky.
Political analysts agree there is little chance of Colombia regaining certification as a U.S. ally in the drug war, which it lost last March, even if it escapes threatened sanctions.
Other anti-drug legislation which the United States has demanded, such as stiffer sentencing and the reintroduction extradition, have been watered down or sunk in Congress in recent weeks.
British Petroleum Co Plc considers its Piedemonte prospect in eastern Colombia "fundamental" to its worldwide operations despite drilling problems and wrangles over the exploitation contract, a top company official said Thursday.
John Doust, executive director of BP's local subsidiary, British Petroleum Exploration (Colombia) Ltd, predicted the field, still at the test stage, could come on stream by the end of 1999.
He estimated the total cost of developing the field, estimated to contain between 600 million and one billion barrels of crude and condensates, could run to about $2.2 billion, some of which would be shared by state oil company Ecopetrol.
"The oil project currently under way in the Piedemonte is fundamental for the worldwide organisation of the BP group," Doust said in a speech to journalists.
His recognition of the strategic importance of the 287,000 hectare block, in which BP has pinpointed three promising hydrocarbon formations after exploring just 15 percent of the total area, once again raises the question how BP will push the Colombian government for sweeter contract terms.
BP, Colombia's single largest foreign investor, argues that given tough drilling conditions, the terms of its so-called sliding scale association contract with Ecopetrol makes it unprofitable to exploit the field.
Under the existing contract, Ecopetrol's share of the profits rise as production increases from 50 percent to a maximum 76 percent.
BP has been pushing for a so-called R Factor contract -- which the Colombian government has so far denied -- which would take account of investment and operating costs to ensure adequate profit margins.
"We understand the uncertainty of the (Piedemonte) issue and the nature of the debate have caused uneasiness amongst many people... Let us keep in mind that we are truly seeking to achieve a break-even point and a platform of confidence for BP so that we can operate in an internationally competitive economic position," Doust said.
Last month, Colombia's Mines and Energy Minister Rodrigo Villamizar proposed BP should hand back rights to the 85 percent of the block that is virtually unexplored with the guarantee that Ecopetrol would re-award BP half that area under R Factor conditions at a later date and contract out the remainder to other companies.
Doust said BP was "seriously considering" the proposal. It is understood, however, that BP would be loath to surrender the rights to almost 50 percent of a block with huge potential under the current offer on the table.
BP has recently been hit by allegations of indirect links to right-wing paramilitary death squads that have assassinated social leaders close to its operations in eastern Colombia.
Doust blamed the accusations on a campaign to discredit the company and repeated earlier statements that he had invited the country's chief prosecutor to carry out an in-depth investigation into the claims.
China's defence sector and state-owned heavy industries are the country's biggest loss-makers but reform of the lumbering state sector is proceeding at a snail's pace, analysts said on Friday.
More than 45 percent of China's 68,800 state industrial firms posted losses from January to September, a rise of 17.6 percent from the same period last year, according to the latest data from the State Statistical Bureau.
"Those most in need of help would be the military industries and traditional industries," said Zheng Haihang, a professor of industrial economics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Traditional industries included the coal and oil sectors as well as heavy industry, Zheng said by telephone.
"To put it simply, it's mostly these traditional industries, which have a very backward structure," Zheng said of the state sector's mounting losses.
Many of China's state-run enterprises are overstaffed and unable to compete in domestic or overseas markets. They also carry the heavy burden of providing cradle-to-grave welfare services for their employees.
The combined losses of state firms reached 65.12 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) during the first nine months of the year, a rise of 45.7 percent from a year ago, official figures show.
Compounding the problem is interest on unpaid debts -- a substantial burden even after two interest rate cuts this year.
"The debt burden of state-owned enterprises is very heavy, so of course this affects their profitability," Zheng said.
The January-September net profits of China's state industries fell to 11.28 billion yuan, down 75.8 percent from the same period last year, the statistics show.
Reform of defence industries -- many based in remote and backward inland regions and fitted with ageing technology -- had proceeded slowly, the economist said.
"Military industries are trying to transform into civilian industries, but the transition is extremely difficult -- there's no capital," he said.
Officials have said more than 200 state firms have been declared insolvent to date but Beijing has been wary of pushing ahead with bankruptcies.
Beijing fears that reform of state enterprises will lead to mass unemployment and eventually spark social unrest, said one Western analyst reached by telephone.
"That's one major reason why reform is going so slowly," said the analyst, who declined to be identified.
China's trade unions had set up a special fund this year to help workers in ailing state firms, the China Daily newspaper said on Friday.
"The relief fund...is designed to help employees from money-losing state-owned enterprises maintain decent living standards," the newspaper said.
Unions had raised 1.2 billion yuan so far this year to help about seven million impoverished workers in state enterprises and disaster-stricken areas, it said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)
The Chinese authorities acted decisively on Friday to stop extraordinary price movements on the country's two stock markets by imposing a limit of 10 percent in the movement of any stock on one day.
In announcements made after the market closed on Friday, the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchange set daily movement limits for all shares and investment fund units at 10 percent in either direction, with effect from next Monday.
"From Monday on, all bids and asks exceeding the limits are null and void," the announcement said. "No brokerage must accept invalid bids and asks."
The announcements followed several days of dramatic falls in the B share indices of both Shanghai and Shenzhen, which on Friday alone plunged 12.26 percent and 14.75 percent respectively.
On Friday, the exchanges also ordered brokerages to make public the top losing and gaining stocks on any one day and the names of the key institutions involved in trading.
Brokers said the order would tend to limit institutional speculation, adding that while restriction of market manipulation was good, the move would also hinder the activity of the markets.
The announcements all made clear that they had been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), which supervises all securities and futures markets.
Chinese brokers generally welcomed the new limits, saying they would effectively help control erratic trading on the fledging markets founded in 1990.
"The decisions indicate the securities authorities are determined to standardise the markets and will be a key step in stabilising share prices," said Xu Zhiling, deputy general manager of the securities trading department of China Guotai Securities.
But some brokers said setting the limits would benefit buyers and help creating buyers' markets.
"Unlike futures contracts, investors cannot build short positions on the stock markets," said one broker. "Price limits thus will help buyers who can build large positions without much risk of price plunges."
A foreign broker in Shanghai said the limits were overall not beneficial to the market or its development.
"Trading limits generally distort markets rather than rationalise trading," he said. "But the real question is how long can this can go on."
Shanghai's B share index ended down 9.267 points or 12.26 percent at 66.291 points on Friday on fears that Beijing would crack down on domestic investors trading B shares, traders said.
The fears were sparked by news reports that the securities authorities in Shenzhen had ordered local brokerages not to accept foreign exchange to buy B shares from local people unless they could prove the money originated from outside China, they said.
Shanghai's A share index lost 67.781 points or 5.51 percent to 1,163.050 on news that checks had begun in some parts of China on the risk management systems of securities brokerages.
Meanwhile, Shenzhen's B share index plunged 25.85 points or 14.75 percent to end at 149.37 in heavy trading because of the crackdown by local securities authorities on mainland Chinese buying B shares, brokers said.
The Shenzhen A share index lost 23.60 points, or 4.84 percent, to 463.81 on turnover of 9.26 billion yuan compared with 14.24 billion on Thursday.
Quaker Oats Co. is looking to shed its Snapple beverage business and, in the process, may also end up selling the Gatorade sports drink line, its single largest brand, analysts said Friday.
"I think it's up for sale," Prudential Securities analyst John McMillin said of Quaker's beverage division.
Speculation that Quaker may get rid of Snapple, which has posted operating losses since it was purchased for $1.8 billion two years ago, boosted Quaker's stock, which gained $2 and closed at $38.125 on the New York Stock Exchange.
"We've been saying since this summer that there was a high probability that Quaker would pursue a restructuring, and beyond just Snapple," CS First Boston analyst Michael Mauboussin said.
He said that a possible restructuring at Quaker likely would include selling some assets, which Mauboussin said were currently under-valued.
"Gatorade being the crown jewel, clearly," he added.
Rumours regarding an outright purchase of Quaker or various parts of its businesses have swirled around the Chicago-based company for about three years. Quaker has consistently declined to comment on any speculation.
"I will simply tell you that it is our policy not to comment on rumours and speculation," Quaker spokesman Ronald Bottrell said Friday.
The speculation gained credibility, analysts said, when the Wall Street Journal reported Friday that Quaker might sell Gatorade and Snapple, with prices quoted between $3 billion and $4 billion.
"I would have said (the chance of Quaker selling its beverage business was) less than 50-50 before I read the article," BT Securities analyst John O'Neil said. "But I think if somebody offers them $4 billion ... they have to take it."
The Wall Street Journal said the most likely buyers for Quaker's beverage business were said to be Procter &amp; Gamble Co. and PepsiCo Inc.
Procter &amp; Gamble and PepsiCo both declined to comment.
"We have a long standing policy of not commenting on rumours," said Richard Detwiler, director of public relations for PepsiCo.
If Quaker sold its beverage businesses, its food businesses, including oatmeal, ready-to-eat cereal and pasta and rice dishes, could also attract buyers, analysts said.
The Wall Street Journal said Philip Morris Cos. Inc. might be interested in buying some of Quaker's food brands to bolster its Kraft Foods operation.
A Kraft spokesman did not return a call seeking comment.
It had been widely anticipated that Quaker would scale back Snapple to a regional brand, spin it off or sell it.
Quaker management, however, said earlier this year that Snapple's fruit-flavored and iced tea beverage business would remain a national brand.
"What he (Chairman William Smithburg) has been saying does not indicate that he is looking to sell the business right now," O'Neil of BT Securities said. "But he always comments that he will act to increase shareholder value."
Smith Barney analyst David Rabinowitz said selling off Quaker's businesses may yield the highest return to shareholders on a short-term basis. But "it doesn't have to happen," Rabinowitz said.
Analysts have said previously that they expected Quaker to write off additional goodwill for Snapple, which would be a non-cash charge.
The company said in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it will review Snapple for a possible charge to reduce its carrying value.
One year after the peak of Japan's banking crisis, financial institutions are still reeling from the shock, and some have not escaped bankruptcy, analysts say.
Bankers say the worst of the bad loan nightmare is over, but analysts believe Japan's financial industry remains vulnerable.
"It will take some time for confidence in Japanese banks to be restored -- at least until real estate transactions are reactivated," said Yushiro Ikuyo, first vice president at Smith Barney International.
Bad loans largely take the form of land collateral.
"Even for big banks, it will take a few years to write off most problem loans and this will hurt their earnings," he said.
Financial analyst Hideichiro Nishimura at Yamaichi Research Institute of Securities and Economics said that despite vigorous efforts by the government and banks to clear the bad loan mess in the past year, confidence in Japanese financial institutions has not improved in international markets.
Currently stable share prices and low interest rates are helping banks dispose of problem loans steadily and on schedule, but their efforts to restructure operations still fall short of boosting their declining asset quality, he said.
August 30 last year saw Japan's first bank failure since World War Two. The financial system was jolted as major regional bank Hyogo Bank and the country's biggest credit union, Kizu Shinyo Kumiai, collapsed due to adventurous lending during the "bubble economy" of the late 1980s.
Ahead of that dark day, the biggest credit union in Tokyo, Cosmo Shinyo Kumiai, had collapsed, and then this year, second-tier regional bank Taiheiyo Bank went under.
Several analysts expect more bank failures.
"Everyone knows what has to happen (more financial failures), but no one knows when and how and who pays," an analyst at a foreign securities firm said.
To dispose of 10.7 trillion yen ($99.0 billion) of loan losses, many of Japan's biggest banks posted net losses in the fiscal 1995/96, ended March 31.
But counting all deposit-taking institutions, on that date there were still 8.3 trillion yen ($76.8 billion) of loan losses which need to be written off, the Finance Ministry said.
In June, parliament passed bills to clean up the nation's bad loan mess and deal with bank failures, along with a scheme to wind up failed mortgage firms, using taxpayers' money.
Analysts are cool about such efforts, however.
A spokeswoman at international credit-rating agency Moody's Investors Service said it has not much changed its BFSR (bank financial strength rating) since August last year, when it unveiled the BFSR for major Japanese banks for the first time.
Moody's last week warned that some of Japan's seven major trust banks may need external support in order to survive growing competition and the burden of bad debts.
Moody's gave Chuo Trust &amp; Banking and Yasuda Trust &amp; Banking an "E" ranking, meaning that they suffer from very weak intrinsic financial strength, and gave only a slightly better "E+" rating to Mitsui Trust &amp; Banking and Nippon Trust Bank.
It also kept Hokkaido Takushoku Bank and Nippon Credit Bank at the "E" it gave them last August.
"We expect banks with very weak financial fundamentals to ultimately require assistance either from the authorities or from their respective corporate group members," Moody's said.
The television and entertainment industries vowed Thursday to use only their system for rating TV programs and promised to reject -- by legal means, if necessary -- any government-imposed plan.
Following months of work, a group of TV and Hollywood executives are scheduled next week to unveil plans for a system to rate shows based on their suitability for kids of different ages, especially those under 14 years of age.
It will be similar to the 28-year-old system of letters and numbers used by the motion-picture industry and which includes the ratings G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17.
"We will not use any other TV rating guidelines other than the ones we are going to announce next week," said Jack Valenti, chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America and head of the "implementation group" developing the ratings.
But parental groups, children's advocates, educators and some key lawmakers -- including Rep. Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat -- have demanded that the group include a content-based system specifying the level of sex, violence and bad language.
Lawmakers have not ruled out a legislative fix.
"It is clear that the industry has so far failed to respond adequately to the fundamental interest of parents in knowing the specific content of TV shows in advance," Markey said at a news conference accompanied by other lawmakers and groups pushing for a content-based system like the one now used by the HBO cable channel.
At a press conference responding to Markey, Valenti lashed back. He accused Markey of trying to use government as a "big brother" to impose his own scheme. And Valenti vowed not to bend under pressure and alter his group's system.
"We're not going to change a word of it. We're not going to redot an 'i' or recross a 't,'" Valenti said. "If there is any intervention by government, we're going to be in court in a nanosecond."
The Federal Communications Commission also must approve or reject the ratings system. If it were to reject it, the agency could call for development of an alternative plan -- one that Valenti said the industry would ignore.
Once the ratings are implemented in January, Valenti did say the industry would revisit the system after about a year to determine whether it should be changed or "tweaked."
"Is it perfect? Of course not. All subjective systems are flawed. So is ours," Valenti said.
The ratings -- expected to include six broad categories -- will not apply to news, news magazine shows such as "60 Minutes" or sports. TV networks and syndicators will issue the ratings, with the categories "mingling" age and content, according to Valenti.
Proposed guidelines leaked to the media include two for children: "TV-K" for kids and suitable for all ages; and "TV-K7" for children older than seven.
The other four are: "TV-G" for general audiences; "TV-PG," parental guidance suggested; "TV-14" for parents strongly cautioned; and "TV-M" for mature audiences only.
The rating are to be used in conjunction with a "V-chip" installed in TV sets that allow parents to block out shows they consider too violent or racy.
The HBO system, developed in the mid-80s, offers ratings such as "MV" for "mild violence," "SC" for "strong sexual content" and "AL" for "adult language."
But Valenti said that system is unworkable and is too complicated to appear in TV listings in the newspaper.
He also said a 19-member monitoring and oversight group will be created to oversee the new ratings. It will include a chairman and representives from the creative side of the industry, TV broadcasters and the cable-TV industry.
Firstar Corp's announcement on Thursday that it expected to fall short of analysts' fourth-quarter earnings estimates for what it believes are temporary factors includes one element -- a continued modest decline in commercial loans outstanding -- that could be a more lasting concern, analysts said.
The Milwaukee-based bank holding company, which has $19.9 billion in assets, said it expects fourth quarter earnings of about $0.95 a share excluding any one-time gains, $0.08 short of the consensus and unchanged from a year ago.  
Firstar is in the midst of a program to trim costs and enhance revenues and said factors including the implementation of that program and assimilation of recent acquisitions would hurt earnings. But the bank also said continued declines in its commercial loans outstanding would also hinder earnings, and was a temporary factor.
"I think while that sounds plausible, it also remains to be proven," said Ben Crabtree, banking analyst at Dain Bosworth. Crabtree had forecast earnings of $1.08 a share for the quarter.  
While expenses from the restructuring and acquisitions should eventually be eliminated, analysts were not as sure that the loss of loans would be reversed.
"The question going forward, and that's an unanswerable question, is the long-term impact on the revenue side," said Thomas Maier, banking analyst at EVEREN Securities.
Firstar investor relations spokesman Joe Messinger said the decline in loans outstanding is due mostly to the focus on the restructuring during the first two quarters of the year.  
Firstar also said credit card charge-offs will remain higher than the company's historic levels in the quarter, though they will be in line with the industry overall.
"It's something they've indicated in the past," Maier said, adding that higher charge-offs were already built into his previous $1.05 a share estimate on fourth quarter earnings and outperform rating on the stock.
In the 10-Q filing with the SEC for the third quarter, Firstar said it expected credit card charge-offs to rise to 4.5-5.0 percent in the fourth and first quarters, before declining to 4-4.5 percent. Charge-offs were 4.06 percent in the third quarter.
If Firstar meets its $0.95 a share estimate for the quarter, 1996 earnings would be $3.34 a share, compared to $3.00 a share a year ago.
Firstar shares fell one to 51 Thursday amid a downturn in banking stocks.
((--Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787))
Shares in British insurer Commercial Union (CU) jumped on Friday amid renewed speculation the insurance group may become the next victim in the industry's push to consolidate.
Rumours that a merger were in the offing were given a new lease of life after buying of CU shares late on Thursday. The shares rose on Friday, jumping in late trading to close 19-1/2p at 663-1/2p, ignoring worries about interest rates which sent stock prices across the rest of the London market tumbling.
Tobacco and financial sevices giant BAT Industries has been at the centre of the most recent rumours with reports last weekend that discussions between the two had foundered.
Both companies have maintained their silence on whether discussions have actually taken place but earlier this week BAT said it was keeping an open mind about the opportunities for finding a partner for its financial services arm.
The search for cost savings and economies of scale are behind the latest drive to consolidate in Britain's increasingly competitive and fragmented insurance industry.
New entrants selling insurance over the telephone such as Direct Line have added to competition while the selling of insurance products through banks, building societies and shops is also expected to gather momentum.
Royal Insurance and Sun Alliance combined operations back in July to create Britain's biggest insurer and estimates it will be able to cut costs by 175 million pounds ($289.6 million) annually by 1998, shedding some 5,000 employees in the process.
Like the retail banking industry, insurance companies tend not to be dependent on key individuals and mergers are not fundamentally difficult to achieve, said analysts.
One estimated that cost savings in a tie-up between Commercial Union and BAT Industries could probably add another 20 percent to combined operating profits.
While analysts conceded that reports the company has been discussing a deal with others in the industry may be true, they were quick to point out that such discussions have been commonplace in recent years.
"Anyone who wanted to talk to CU would at least be listened to -- they've got shareholders to consider. But these things are not new. These companies have been talking to each other for as long as I can remember on a regular basis," said one analyst.
"But I think CU feels quite capable of controlling its own destiny and I'm not convinced that they would think another insurance company had much to offer."
The question of which management would come out on top in any merger is another tricky issue and was said to have been behind the breakdown in talks with BAT.
Interest from abroad has also been rumoured with German insurance group Allianz said to have been contemplating a move for CU. General Accident and Guardian Royal Exchange have also been linked with CU.
A full-scale takeover is a more remote possibility with the necessary premium on the current share price likely to offset many of the cost savings.
But even a merger would bring with it a multitude of problems and would put questionmarks over relationships built up with banks and financial institutions in its continental European businesses.
"There's pressure on both the non-life and life industries to get together and cut costs and CU is as much a part of that as anybody else. I'm sure that most companies have talked or thought about talking to other companies. Whether anything comes of it or not is a completely different matter," said an analyst.
Takeover talk also extended to the insurance broking market late Friday as rumours circulated of a predator stalking Sedgwick Group Plc whose shares closed 5p higher at 125-1/2p.
($1=.6043 Pound)
Quaker Oats Co. is looking to shed its Snapple beverage business and, in the process, may also end up selling the Gatorade sports drink line, its single largest brand, analysts said Friday.
"I think it's up for sale," Prudential Securities analyst John McMillin said of Quaker's beverage division.
Speculation that Quaker may get rid of Snapple, which has posted operating losses since it was purchased for $1.8 billion two years ago, boosted Quaker's stock, which gained $1.50 to $37.50 in early afternoon trading on on the New York Stock Exchange.
"We've been saying since this summer that there was a high probability that Quaker would pursue a restructuring, and beyond just Snapple," CS First Boston analyst Michael Mauboussin said.
He said that a possible restructuring at Quaker likely would include selling some assets, which Mauboussin said were currently under-valued.
"Gatorade being the crown jewel, clearly," he added.
Rumors regarding an outright purchase of Quaker or various parts of its businesses have swirled around the Chicago-based company for about three years. Quaker has consistently declined to comment on any speculation.
"I will simply tell you that it is our policy not to comment on rumors and speculation," Quaker spokesman Ronald Bottrell said Friday.
The speculation gained credibility, analysts said, when the Wall Street Journal reported Friday that Quaker might sell Gatorade and Snapple, with prices quoted between $3 billion and $4 billion.
"I would have said (the chance of Quaker selling its beverage business was) less than 50-50 before I read the article," BT Securities analyst John O'Neil said. "But I think if somebody offers them $4 billion ... they have to take it."
The Wall Street Journal said the most likely buyers for Quaker's beverage business were said to be Procter &amp; Gamble Co. and PepsiCo Inc..
PepsiCo also declined to comment.
"We have a long standing policy of not commenting on rumors," said Richard Detwiler, director of public relations for PepsiCo.
If Quaker sold its beverage businesses, its food businesses, including oatmeal, ready-to-eat cereal and pasta and rice dishes, could also attract buyers, analysts said.
The Wall Street Journal said Philip Morris Cos. Inc. might be interested in buying some of Quaker's food brands to bolster its Kraft Foods operation.
A Kraft spokesman did not return a call seeking comment.
It had been widely anticipated that Quaker would scale back Snapple to a regional brand, spin it off or sell it.
Quaker management, however, said earlier this year that Snapple's fruit-flavored and iced tea beverage business would remain a national brand.
"What he (Chairman William Smithburg) has been saying does not indicate that he is looking to sell the business right now," O'Neil of BT Securities said. "But he always comments that he will act to increase shareholder value."
Smith Barney analyst David Rabinowitz said selling off Quaker's businesses may yield the highest return to shareholders on a short-term basis. But "it doesn't have to happen," Rabinowitz said.
Analysts have said previously that they expected Quaker to write off additional goodwill for Snapple, which would be a non-cash charge.
The company said in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it will review Snapple for a possible charge to reduce its carrying value.
-- Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787
U.S.-owned express freight carrier United Parcel Service (UPS) could start flying its own planes to Australia if growth in the Australian market continued at the current rate, a senior company official said on Friday.
UPS, which started serving Australia in 1991, currently uses commercial airlines to carry packages in and out of the country, UPS general manager Australia Terry Hales said in an interview.
"If things continue the way they are I could see very quickly the realisation of that ...", Hales said.
"It is certainly not beyond the terms of possibility at all. I would say that we have a plan that it would happen in the next five years," he said.
UPS does not use its own planes, which currently total 300 worldwide, to fly to Australia as there was not enough export business from Australia, he said.
"We don't fly planes into Australia. The market is not yet large enough to warrant bringing in an airplane every day full up and then turn them around and fly them back," Hales said.
"We have no problems filling them up coming in. Going out is another matter on a regular basis," he said.
Hales said Australia imports four times as much air freight as it exports. However, he said UPS projects large export growth, albeit from a low base in Australia.
"Our volume of revenue forecasts are in the region of 34 percent (growth) in calendar 1997," he said.
The import business is seen growing at a more modest pace.
"We still feel fairly bullish that we will still grow in the (import) market, probably seven or eight percent which is reasonable for the business," he said.
UPS uses Australia as a service centre rather than a hub for the Asia Pacific. Hales said UPS was spending US$400 million on its Asia Pacific hub terminal in Taiwan, which was chosen due to its proximity to other Asian nations and the United States.
"When you sit down and work out the best location to service the customers, in our case we came out with Taiwan as the best location for the Asia Pacific," Hales said.
However, he did not rule out Australia becoming an Asian Pacific hub in the future.
UPS currently uses Honolulu as a connection point for freight bound for Australia.
Cargo is transferred to a Qantas Airways Ltd flight to carry it the rest of the way to Australia.
But this could change in the future if growth continued at the current pace, Hales said.
Atlanta-based UPS is privately owned.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
An independent shareholder advisory firm recommended Thursday that investors of Conrail Inc. reject a key provision in the railroad's proposed acquisition by CSX Corp.
Maryland-based Institutional Shareholder Services, which provides corporate analyses to institutional clients, suggested that shareholders defeat a proposal that would permit CSX to pursue its proposed $8.5 billion stock and cash transaction.
In making the recommendation, senior analyst Peter Gleason noted Norfolk Southern Corp.'s rival $10 billion cash bid that has been rejected by Conrail.
"We believe that all shareholders should be treated equally in any merger transaction, and because of NS's higher offer currently outstanding, we do not believe it would be in shareholders' best interest to opt out of the fair price provision at this time," Gleason wrote in a 16-page report.
Conrail investors are being asked to waive a Pennsylvania law that requires an all-cash payment by CSX, which already has bought 19.9 percent of Conrail in a cash tender offer.
In October, CSX and Conrail announced a merger that calls for CSX to buy Conrail in a cash-and-stock deal.
CSX is offering to pay $110 in cash for 40 percent of Conrail's outstanding shares. Based on Thursday's closing stock prices, the remaining 60 percent would be bought for about $83 per share.
Although Norfolk Southern has submitted a higher all-cash bid, Conrail contends the CSX offer is a better fit.
Institutional Shareholder Services disputed that argument, saying that both potential combinations would create an East Coast railroad powerhouse.
"However, CSX's front-end loaded, two-tiered takeover does not treat all Conrail shareholders fairly, and the lock-ups provided in the agreement have denied Conrail shareholders the possibility of accepting a higher payment for their shares," Gleason wrote.
Under the agreement between Conrail and CSX, Conrail would be prohibited from entering a pact with another company before July 1997.
"The only thing prohibiting the higher offer from being presented to sharheolders are the barriers erected by Conrail to ensure the company merges with CSX," Gleason wrote.
CSX declined to comment on the report. Conrail also did not have any immediate comment.
Conrail has scheduled a special shareholder meeting for Dec. 23 to consider a waiver of the Pennsylvania law.
Institutional Shareholder Services, which held meetings with Conrail and Norfolk Southern, also recommended that shareholders reject a Conrail request to adjourn the meeting if more votes are needed to ensure passage of the waiver.
"In this case, shareholders already have the information they need to make their voting decisions. Once their votes have been cast, there is no justification to spend extra money to continue pressing shareholders for more votes," Gleason wrote.
The shareholder advisory firm also said the Conrail-CSX union could run into trouble from the Surface Transportation Board, the federal regulatory agency overseeing railroads.
"Although Conrail and CSX believe STB approval and/or concessions will not create significant problems, we see the competitive issues as a major concern, and do not share Conrail's belief that STB approval of the transaction is assured," Gleason wrote.
He also noted that many shareholders expect CSX and Conrail to amend their pact to sweeten the stock portion of their proposed transaction.
"Conrail has indicated that it has had discussions with CSX about raising the back end of the consideration to make the offer more equitable to shareholders, but no decisions have been made to date," Gleason wrote.
He also noted that Norfolk Southern would likely raise its rival offer if CSX sweetened its deal.
Separately on Thursday, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said it planned to intervene in any Conrail merger and would hire a consultant to analyse the impact of any transaction.
The aggressive cost cutting programmes planned by Australia's two major airlines Qantas Airways Ltd and Ansett Airlines Ltd can be achieved without affecting services, analysts said.
Both Qantas and Ansett face pressure on profits because of the stronger Australia dollar, higher fuel prices, a soft domestic market and competition in the international market.
"Australian airlines are seen as high cost operators compared with the rest of world," said Peter Harbison, managing director of the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation consultancy service.
"So I suppose there is scope there to reduce the cost base," Harbison told Reuters.
Qantas, which is 25 percent owned by British Airways Plc, announced at its annual meeting last month that it will increase its cost cutting programme by about A$100 million for the 1996/97 year on the previous target of A$330 million.
Ansett, which is a joint venture between News Corp Ltd and Air New Zealand Ltd, said three months earlier that it plans to cut A$150 million from its annual cost base of A$3 billion.
"They will have to reduce their costs along with every other airline in the world and that will continue to happen for some time," Harbison said.
Investors are focusing on Qantas, which is cutting costs more aggressively so that it can meet profit estimates.
Qantas has said it aims to cut costs right across the airline, without specifying particular areas.
Analysts said Qantas will have plenty of scope to cut costs, using its alliance with major shareholder British Airways to share facilities.
"They have got a lot of inefficiences, they can outsource some of their engineering and maintenance," said Greg Ward, aviation analyst at First Pacific Stockbroking.
Analysts said the Australian flag carrier will also cut costs in areas where it is not so noticeable to customers, such as in the accounts and marketing and sales departments.
"It's the tail that Qantas will hack into, Qantas will not hack into the sharp end," said David Turner, analyst at Shaw Stockbroking, referring to accounts and sales areas as the tail, while the sharp end was the flight services.
He said Qantas is very competitive with other world airlines in terms of its pilot performance and aircraft ultilisation, so there is little change seen in those areas.
Analysts said Qantas has to focus on cutting costs in order to grow profits and release funds for the expansion of services and purchase of new aircraft.
"They haven't got the capacity to go out and buy planes and fill them up and fly hundreds more routes so the focus is on improving their balance sheet and generating more profits to do that," one Melbourne-based aviation analyst said.
However, analysts said both Qantas and Ansett run a risk in cutting costs as it may affect staff morale, which in turn affects customer service and in turn customer loyality.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
The Australian Stock Exchange's transport sector is likely to see more modest gains over the next year after a sharp rise over the past year, analysts said.
The transport index has risen about 30 percent during 1996, while the broader market has increased six percent this year.
"Brambles and Mayne's have had a extraordinary run over the last eight to 10 months, and the impression of the market is that they have reached their short term value," said Paul Xavier transport analyst at BNP Equities.
Over half of the transport sector is made up by Brambles Industries Ltd and Mayne Nickless Ltd.
"In the last 12 months the sector has outperformed quite significantly," Pru-Bache Securities transport analyst Andrew Mullholland said.
It is outperforming because of a lot of stock specific issues," Mulholland said.
"You look at Mayne - it's because of Optus and healthcare and if you look at Brambles it's all to do with a turnaround in earnings," he said.
"If you look at TNT it is all to do with the bid," he said.
TNT Ltd, which was seen as a laggard among the majors, has been taken over by Dutch post and telcoms group PTT Nederland NV through its A$2 billion bid.
Mayne Nickless plans to sell its 25 percent stake in Optus Communications through the planned float of the telecommunications group in 1997, raising around A$1.0 billion.
Analysts said the Qantas Airways Ltd share price has underperformed the transport sector, with the stock trading for most of 1996 below its A$2.26 price at the start of January.
"If you look at Qantas they have underperformed, but they represent good value at these levels," Mullholland said.
Qantas shares are currently trading just above the A$2.00 price institutional investors paid for the shares in the airline's float in mid-1995.
However, analysts said that given the diverse operations of Mayne Nickless and Brambles the transport index is no longer seen as by investors as a leading indicator of economic activity and so not much attention is paid to the movement of the index.
"I have always seen the transport index as a bit of a misnomer, it is kind of a diversified hybrid," Pru-Bache's Mullholland said.
If investors want pure exposure to the domestic transport sector they would have to look at medium sized groups Finemores Holdings Ltd, Scott Corp Ltd and Toll Holdings Ltd, analysts said.
"If you want to be in transport in Australia, you are better off looking at the medium sized players not the big players," one Melbourne-based transport analyst said.
Analysts said that although transport companies represent some leverage to a slower growing Australian economy. But this leverage is limited as much the economic growth is seen in the service sector and not traded goods, which use transport.
"Economy growth is seen in telecommunications, media and entertainment and hardly any growth in the traded sector and that limited growth in the traded goods sector means that there isn't that much growth in the transport side," one analyst said.
Analysts said in the future the transport sector may start to represent more of a transport infrastructure index as Australian government's are expected to privatise airports, railways and shipping ports over the next few years.
The Australian government is expected to complete the first phase of its airport privatisation programme in the first half of 1997 with the sale of Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth airports.
The aggressive cost cutting programmes planned by Australia's two major airlines Qantas Airways Ltd and Ansett Airlines Ltd can be achieved without affecting services, analysts said.
Both Qantas and Ansett face pressure on profits because of the stronger Australia dollar, higher fuel prices, a soft domestic market and competition in the international market.  
"Australian airlines are seen as high cost operators compared with the rest of world," said Peter Harbison, managing director of the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation consultancy service.
"So I suppose there is scope there to reduce the cost base," Harbison told Reuters.
Qantas, which is 25 percent owned by British Airways Plc, announced at its annual meeting last month that it will increase its cost cutting programme by about A$100 million for the 1996/97 year on the previous target of A$330 million.  
Ansett, which is a joint venture between News Corp Ltd and Air New Zealand Ltd, said three months earlier that it plans to cut A$150 million from its annual cost base of A$3 billion.
"They will have to reduce their costs along with every other airline in the world and that will continue to happen for some time," Harbison said.
Investors are focusing on Qantas, which is cutting costs more aggressively so that it can meet profit estimates.
Qantas aims to cut costs across the board but has not revealed specific areas.  
Analysts said Qantas will have plenty of scope to cut costs, using its alliance with BA to share facilities.
"They have got a lot of inefficiences, they can outsource some of their engineering and maintenance," said Greg Ward, aviation analyst at First Pacific Stockbroking.
Analysts said the Australian flag carrier will also cut costs in areas where it is not so noticeable to customers, such as in the accounts, and marketing and sales departments.  
"It's the tail that Qantas will hack into, Qantas will not hack into the sharp end," said David Turner, analyst at Shaw Stockbroking, referring to accounts and sales areas as the tail, with the sharp end being flight services.
He said Qantas is very competitive with other world airlines in terms of pilot performance and aircraft ultilisation, so there is little change seen in those areas.
Analysts said Qantas has to focus on cutting costs in order to grow profits and release funds for the expansion of services and purchase of new aircraft.  
"They haven't got the capacity to go out and buy planes and fill them up and fly hundreds more routes so the focus is on improving their balance sheet and generating more profits to do that," one Melbourne-based aviation analyst said.
However, analysts said both Qantas and Ansett run a risk in cutting costs as it may affect staff morale, which in turn affects customer service and in turn customer loyality.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
The Australian Stock Exchange's transport sector is likely to see more modest gains over the next year after a sharp rise over the past year, analysts said.
The transport index has risen about 30 percent during 1996, while the broader market has increased six percent this year.
"Brambles and Mayne's have had an extraordinary run over the last eight to 10 months, and the impression of the market is that they have reached their short term value," said Paul Xavier, transport analyst at BNP Equities.  
More than half of the sector is made up by Brambles Industries Ltd and Mayne Nickless Ltd.
"In the last 12 months the sector has outperformed quite significantly," Pru-Bache Securities transport analyst Andrew Mullholland said.
"It is outperforming because of a lot of stock specific issues," Mulholland said.
"You look at Mayne - it's because of Optus and healthcare and if you look at Brambles it's all to do with a turnaround in earnings," he said.
"If you look at TNT it is all to do with the bid," he said.  
TNT Ltd, which was seen as a laggard among the majors, has been taken over by Dutch post and telecoms group Koninklijke PTT Nederland NV through its friendly A$2 billion bid.
Mayne Nickless plans to sell its 25 percent stake in Optus Communications through the planned float of the telecommunications group in 1997, raising around A$1.0 billion.
Analysts said Qantas Airways Ltd's share price has underperformed the transport sector, with the stock trading for most of 1996 below its A$2.26 price at the start of January.  
"If you look at Qantas they have underperformed, but they represent good value at these levels," Mullholland said.
Qantas shares are currently trading just above the A$2.00 price institutional investors paid for the shares in the mid-1995 price.
However, analysts said that given the diverse operations of Mayne Nickless and Brambles the transport index is no longer seen by investors as a leading indicator of economic activity and therefore less attention is paid to the index.  
"I have always seen the transport index as a bit of a misnomer, it is kind of a diversified hybrid," Pru-Bache's Mullholland said.
If investors want pure exposure to the domestic transport sector they would have to look at medium sized groups Finemores Holdings Ltd, Scott Corp Ltd and Toll Holdings Ltd, analysts said.
"If you want to be in transport in Australia, you are better off looking at the medium sized players not the big players," one Melbourne-based analyst said.  
Analysts said transport companies represent some leverage to a slower growing Australian economy. But this leverage is limited as much as the economic growth is seen in the service sector and not traded goods, which use transport.
"Economy growth is seen in telecommunications, media and entertainment and hardly any growth in the traded sector and that limited growth in the traded goods sector means that there isn't that much growth in the transport side," one analyst said.  
Analysts said in the future the transport sector may start to represent more of a transport infrastructure index as Australia's federal and state governments are expected to privatise airports, railways and shipping ports over the next few years.
The Australian government is expected to complete the first phase of its airport privatisation programme in the first half of 1997 with the sale of Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth airports.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800
Two hundred days before its historic handover to China, Hong Kong has adopted a charismatic shipping tycoon as helmsman to lead it into the 21st century.
But the British colony of 6.3 million people is waiting to see if chief executive-designate Tung Chee-hwa can form a "dream team" with the territory's most popular public figure, "iron lady" Anson Chan, head of the present colonial Civil Service.
The former tycoon, who resigned from his shipping empire to become Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader, takes over from British Governor Chris Patten at midnight next June 30, when a century and a half of colonial rule comes to an end.
"If Tung can keep Anson in her job, we will have a dream team leadership that both Britain and the Hong Kong community will be happy with," a senior official said.
Tung, 59, selected by a Beijing-vetted electoral college to run the future Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China, named Chan on Thursday as favourite to be his deputy, saying he wanted her to stay on as head of the 180,000-member civil service.
"I have said I hope she can remain at her post. She, too, has indicated she is willing to do so. I hope she can be my chief secretary," Tung said in the Chinese city of Shenzhen.
"I would like to see a smooth transition. I hope most of the senior officials can remain in office," he said.
Chan, 56, has signalled her interest in working for Tung but restated her fervent belief in libertarian values.
She praised Tung for urging Hong Kong to forget political squabbles and "find common ground to build Hong Kong together".
But she cautioned that the freedoms and plurality of views that made Hong Kong one of the world's economic marvels must be preserved, and said pragmatism and flexibility were vital to it.
"Its very success has been founded on tolerance of different viewpoints," she told the college gathering. "I believe that the law was made for man, not man for the law, that government is the servant of the people, not their master."
Of a similar age, Tung and Chan have much in common and have always described their relationship as friendly.
Both their families moved from Shanghai to Hong Kong as the Communists overran China, defeating the Nationalists in a long civil war that ended in 1949.
The contest for Hong Kong's handover leadership has been dominated by the Shanghai connection. The two candidates who lost to Tung -- former Chief Justice Yang Ti Liang and entrepreneur Peter Woo -- were also Shanghai-born.
Chan herself had earlier been touted as a leadership candidate, having emerged in the polls this year as Hong Kong's most popular political personality with more than 60 percent of public support. But she decided not to run against Tung.
The Shanghainese form one the greatest networks within Hong Kong. Tens of thousands of Shanghai people fled the Communist regime and relocated their businesses in Hong Kong after 1949.
The current leadership in China is also heavily dominated by the so-called "Shanghai faction" led by President Jiang Zemin, who has been actively promoting officials from his home area.
Tung, a conservative who was once bailed out by Chinese funds and who opposes conflict with Beijing, has evolved from a publicity-shy figure into a charismatic leader-in-waiting who can charm and quip his way through news conferences.
He shifts comfortably from one language to another -- English, Cantonese and Mandarin.
Chan is profoundly respected by civil servants for her no-nonsense, efficient administrative style, which has earned her a reputation for toughness -- tempered by a huge smile, kind heart and balanced political outlook.
"The question is whether it is too balanced. Beijing may reject her for defending democracy too much," the official said.
China has sentenced two veteran democracy activists to hard labour for up to three years, a fellow dissident said on Saturday.
Authorities in Taiyuan in central China's Shanxi province sentenced Fu Guoyong to three years of re-education through labour, the dissident told Reuters by telephone.
Fellow activist Chen Ping, who had worked with Fu on pro-democracy tracts, had been sentenced to one year of labour reform, said the dissident who asked not to be identified.
"The reason was because they published articles abroad about democracy," said the dissident. "They just wrote some articles. There really was no reason for this."
Authorities had branded the essays counter-revolutionary, said a statement by the Information Centre of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China.
Taiyuan police detained Fu, 29, in late July for what they said were illegal political activities.
Chen, 45, had been arrested in Taiyuan in August and was sentenced together with Fu, the source said, adding he did not know when the sentences had been passed.
Police in Taiyuan contacted by telephone declined to comment on the cases. Family members were not available.
Fu moved to Taiyuan in late June, complaining of repeated harassment by police in Hangzhou city in the eastern province of Zhejiang, where he had been living with his wife.
Fu previously served two years in a labour camp for his role in the student-led demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square that were crushed by the military with heavy loss of life on June 4, 1989.
Police detained Fu for more than a month in December 1995 after he, along with dissidents Wang Donghai and Chen Longde, wrote a letter calling for the release of Wei Jingsheng, widely regarded as the father of China's modern democracy movement.
Fu also joined in an appeal with Wang and Chen Longde to China's parliament before the 1996 anniversary of the bloody June 4 crackdown, demanding the release of those jailed for their involvement in the movement.
Fu and Chen Ping's sentences come amid a widening crackdown on dissent by Beijing. Most dissidents are already serving lengthy sentences in prisons or labour camps or have been forced into exile.
China drew international condemnation when a Beijing court sentenced former student leader Wang Dan to 11 years in prison in October for conspiring to subvert the government.
Beijing dismisses criticism of its human rights record as interference in its internal affairs.
A Chinese court last week sentenced dissident Zhang Zong'ai to five years in prison for counter-revolutionary incitement.
Three pro-democracy activists are currently standing trial on charges of counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement in Hefei, capital of the central province of Anhui.
In the southern boomtown of Shenzhen that borders Hong Kong, two labour activists are standing trial for conspiring to subvert the government.
International Business Machines Corp. said Friday it was reorganizing its global sales and services businesses under a single brand, IBM Global Services.
IBM's services business has operated under various names outside the United States and the move should help clarify the IBM brand as well as boost efficiency, the company said.
The Armonk, N.Y.-based computer giant also named Lucio Stanca, general manager, global marketing operations.
Stanca, who has headed IBM operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa since the autumn of 1994, will continue as chairman of that operation, based in Paris. In his new role, he will head a new direct-marketing effort around the world using the new structure and single brand name.
Previously, IBM's direct marketing efforts have been in various regions without a consistent focus, analysts said. The efforts include direct mail, telemarketing and electronic marketing via the Internet in 159 countries.
Separately, IBM said it and its partners will discontinue development of Microsoft Corp.'s Windows NT software to run on systems using the PowerPC chip IBM developed with Motorola Inc. and Apple Computer Inc.
IBM was working with Microsoft and Motorola to develop a version of Windows NT for the PowerPC chip, but an IBM spokesman said that they will no longer develop the product.
Analysts said the Power-PC-based systems running Windows NT were not very successful for IBM.
Succeeding Stanca as general manager of Europe, Middle East and Africa is William Etherington, who was general manager of IBM Industries, which manages 11 industry-specific business units.
The industry units will now be managed by David Thomas, who was general manager, IBM North America. In his new role, Thomas will be responsible for IBM's industry-specific strategies and performance.
He will be succeeded in North America by John Thompson, who had been general manager of IBM's personal software products including the beleaguered operating system OS/2. No successor was named.
An IBM spokesman said a replacement will be named for Thompson.
"Some people are saying, what does this mean for OS/2?" said the IBM spokesman. "It means no change whatsoever in strategy. We have not selected anyone yet."
While the OS/2 software has made inroads with about 13 million users, according to IBM, it is still a small share of the world personal computer market, dominated by Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system.
IBM stock rose $1.25 to $152.875 on the New York Stock Exchange in late trading after falling on profit-taking in recent sessions.
This year's rally on the Toronto Stock Exchange, Canada's biggest equity market, will stretch through 1997 and may last until the turn of the century, analysts forecast.
"I think the Toronto Stock Exchange is in the middle of a bull market," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist with Oppenheimer &amp; Co. Inc. in New York.
Canadian equities investors have enjoyed spectacular gains this year. Toronto's key 300 Composite Index jumped as much as 28 percent in 1996 and was up 21 percent after a correction in December.
By contrast, the Dow Jones industrial average, which Toronto generally tracks, was up 23 percent this year, down from a peak of 26 percent.
Analysts said Toronto's market -- the 10th most active worldwide -- would continue to benefit from poor bond yields, which make stocks more attractive.
Bond yields have dropped across the board this year, with 50 basis points shaved off the return of Canada's 30-year benchmark bonds.
Most of the seven analysts polled by Reuters said Toronto's 300 index next year would break its all-time high of 6,018 points, set on Nov. 28. The index was at about 5,700 on Friday.
Analysts' median estimate for the 300 index was 6,600 points by the end of 1997, rising to 7,600 by 1998's close.
"We're in a general long-term uptrend," said Katherine Beattie, technical analyst for MMS International in Toronto. "The stock market is still going to be the best place to invest given the relatively low interest rates.
"We will start inching up, but even if we do get two or three interest rate hikes in the first couple of quarters next year -- which I think is going to cause a correction in the markets -- it's not going to put bonds or bills at a competitive enough level," Beattie said.
Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at brokerage ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Canadian equities were being snapped up by the large baby boom population focusing on generating wealth for retirement amid the uncertain future of government pensions.
"I think that basically we're into fairly firm markets right through until the end of the century," Ketchen said. "Demographics are certainly helping here."
Josef Schachter, president of Schachter Asset Management Inc., predicted Toronto's heavily weighted resource sectors could push the 300 index to 7,000 by the end of 1997 and to at least 8,500 a year later.
"I see (it) potentially higher than that if we can get precious metals ... and base metals joining the party," Schachter said.
Montreal-based portfolio consultant Ron Meisels forecast the index would climb to 8,000 by the end of 1998 and 10,000 by the year 2000.
But some analysts were more bearish, with John Ing, president of Toronto-based Maison Placements Canada Inc., predicting the index would sink to 5,750 by the end of 1997 and 5,400 by the end of 1998.
Ing said interest rate hikes would cut the party short.
"The inevitable increase in rates has got to happen sometime within the next 12 months and that will test the markets," Ing said.
Boeing Co, the world leader in commercial aviation, flew into the ranks of the top military contractors as well on Sunday when it announced its planned $13 billion acquisition of McDonnell Douglas Corp.
Boeing's increased resources should put competitive pressure on its commercial rival, Europe's Airbus Industrie. But industry analysts said the chief benefits for Boeing would be on the military side.  
"Historically Boeing's military business was something of an also-ran," said Cai von Rumohr, an analyst at Cowen &amp; Co. "With this transaction in one fell swoop they become a very major player."
One analyst said the combined company could get nearly 50 percent of its revenues from government contracts, up from Boeing's historical 25 to 30 percent.  
The deal follows by little more than a week the completion of Boeing's $3.2 billion acquisition of Rockwell International Corp's defense and space business and comes just a month after McDonnell Douglas was was eliminated from consideration to build the military's 21st century joint strike fighter plane.
Instead, the Pentagon chose Boeing and Lockheed Martin Corp -- the nation's largest military contractor -- to build prototype versions of the new fighter jet in a contract that could be worth $200 billion or more to the eventual winner.  
The addition of McDonnell Douglas' expertise makes Boeing "the team to beat" on that crucial program, said Paul Nisbet of JSA Securities.
Loss of the joint strike fighter was the final blow for McDonnell Douglas, said analyst Nick Heymann of Natwest Securities. McDonnell had already announced its intention to back away from the commercial aviation market, where it has been only a marginal player in recent years.  
"McDonnell Douglas just didn't have the resources to aggressively fund its development programs," he said. "They got stretched too thin on transports and fighters and commercial, and they underinvested."
Nevertheless the friendly all-stock deal does not necessarily mean that McDonnell Douglas executives failed in their effort to turn around the company, analysts said.
For one thing, the offer price of about $62.89 a share based on Friday's close is well beyond McDonnell's all-time high and about 10 times its level of the early 1990s, said Wolfgang Demisch of BT Securities.  
In addition, the merger is being done at the very beginning of an expansion cycle in the industry, meaning layoffs can be minimized and the companies have several years to rationalize their operations before the next expected downturn.
"It isn't a case that you're merging because you're starving to death," said Demisch. "It's a case that there's lots of opportunity. ... That's a much healthier basis on which to consolidate."  
Indeed, Boeing Chief Executive Phil Condit said the combined companies would have revenues of $48 billion next year, up more than 30 percent from a projected $35 billion this year.
"We are going to be going after $1 billion or more of savings a year, but we are going to be doing in it in an environment where the overall growth is occurring," Condit said at a news conference. "That's the advantage we have got right now."  
Company officials said any job losses would likely be minimal. There may be overlaps in some areas, Condit said, but he added: "I don't think those are going to be significant numbers."
Executives said the merger would cause "reassignments," and operations were expected to continue at existing major locations, including St Louis, where McDonnell Douglas is based.
Murray Weidenbaum, chairman of the Centre for the Study of American Business at Washington University and former chief economist for Boeing, said the deal could have benefits for St. Louis.  
Boeing has a better chance of landing the $200 billion U.S. fighter-jet contract, which is still up for grabs, with McDonnell Douglas on board, he speculated. That could mean more work for St. Louis.
"It's an opportunity and a threat to the St. Louis economy," he said.
Condit, who will become chairman and chief executive officer of the combined company, said final merger negotiations began Tuesday, the day after he was elected to become Boeing's chairman effective Feb. 1.
While Boeing does not currently need additional capacity to produce commercial jets, it will benefit from additional engineering strength, which will allow it to produce new models or variations of existing jets more quickly.
The merger will leave Airbus Industrie as the only other major player in the business of making large commercial aircraft. An Airbus spokesman said McDonnell Douglas has not been a competitor in the civilian aircraft business for a number of years "so it hasn't altered the equation in the commercial field at all for Airbus."
Analysts predicted the deal would win clearance from federal antitrust regulators, noting that no protests were raised this month when the two companies struck a deal to work together on engineering new wide-body jets.
They thought the deal would win approval from the Pentagon, which has encouraged industry consolidation and backed the deal that created No. 1 defense contractor Lockheed Martin in 1994.
Perhaps the chief concern for federal regulators will be Boeing's overwhelming size, which will be nearly twice that of its nearest rival Lockeheed Martin.
Major U.S. airlines said it was too soon to forecast the impact of the proposed merger on airliner prices or their airplane-buying strategies. "It is too early to tell," Delta Air Lines Inc spokesman Todd Clay said.
The deal with the United States to open Japan's insurance market will create some convulsions in the industry, but analysts said it will help make way for the deregulation of Japan's financial sector.
A final agreement was reached on Sunday, ending a dispute that U.S. President Bill Clinton had called the biggest trade barrier between the two nations.
While it focuses on such esoteric issues as who can sell cancer healthcare policies and whether auto insurance can be purchased through the mail, the issue had become a major political dispute.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher even got in on the act, calling his Japanese counterpart to apply some last-minute pressure ahead of the Sunday deadline. Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said he was relieved that the whole thing was over.
The United States, in a statement issued by the embassy here, said the measures "represent fundamental change in the Japanese insurance market, making it more open and competitive."
Insurance trade groups were less than thrilled, however, saying the agreement ignores the needs of consumers and keeps their firms out of some fast-growing parts of the business.
Under the agreement, Japanese companies will be allowed -- in stages -- to enter the niche "third sector" that includes cancer, healthcare and accident coverage. This is the area where foreign firms have gained a foothold.
Foreign firms are expected to benefit from a deregulation of rates in the non-life insurance sector, including fire and auto insurance, to take place by the end of 1998.
Analysts say that even without the U.S. pressure, the changes were coming as part of Hashimoto's drive to revitalise Japan's financial sector.
"It was a matter of when," said Kouya Hasegawa, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre.
He said that as with most deregulation, smaller firms will find it tougher to compete in the new world.
"The liberalisation of premiums is a major blow to the non-life insurance industry, particularly medium- to small-sized firms," Hasegawa said
Takehito Yamanaka, an analyst at SBC Warburg (Japan) Ltd, agreed: "It is inevitable that non-life insurers will compete by cutting premiums."
Medium and small insurers must streamline their network of sales agents to cut costs, he said.
It was not until October that Tokyo removed a ban on mail-order auto insurance under U.S. pressure. Without a network of agents, insurance by mail was seen as an important step for foreign firms.
Income from auto insurance policies account for 40 percent to 50 percent of income at non-life insurance companies, analysts say.
Last month, American Home Assurance Co announced plans for what it says will be Japan's first mail-order car insurance service.
Analysts said the liberalisation of the premiums would eventually result in the disappearance of some financially weak firms and an increase in mergers.
To cope with deregulation, major non-life insurance firm Yasuda Fire &amp; Marine Co Ltd recently announced it would take a majority stake in the Japanese unit of U.S. life insurance giant CIGNA Corp within the next year or two, the first time a Japanese non-life insurer has purchased a life insurance operation.
Under Japan's new Insurance Business Law, which took effect on April 1, non-life and life insurers were allowed to enter each other's business sectors for the first time.
Some in the industry argue that deregulation could create huge problems. They say that higher rates will lead to more uninsured drivers and jeopardise the protection of accident victims.
But no one is predicting that the concerns will stop a deregulation drive across the financial sector that comes to Japan a decade after it hit most industrialised nations.
China's once strained ties with the United States have improved dramatically in recent months with a series of top level visits healing some of the old wounds.
But as the two nations move closer, the United States is sidestepping one of China's most sensitive figures -- Premier Li Peng -- who is still too closely linked to the 1989 crushing of pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, diplomats said on Sunday.
They said that Li is one Chinese leader who does not fit into the agenda for a visit to Washington.
"It may be a bit unfair but he is the one leader everyone remembers for his role in the (1989) crackdown," said a senior foreign diplomat.
Last month U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher made his first visit to China in two years, setting the stage for the series of meetings between other high ranking officials of the two countries.
During Christopher's visit, the two sides reached an understanding that their relationship should not be side-tracked by any one issue. That meant contacts would proceed despite continued disagreements over a range of issues from human rights, to trade and China's political rivalry with Taiwan.
Chinese Minister of Defence Chi Haotian is now in the United States after twice delaying a visit -- both times due to tension over Taiwan. He met President Bill Clinton on Monday last week.
Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin held talks at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in the Philippines last month, and an exchange of visits by the two leaders is planned over 1997 and 1998.
U.S. Vice President Al Gore is expected to visit China some time during the first half of next year.
But there is no talk yet of a return visit to the United States by Premier Li, Gore's counterpart in the Chinese government.
U.S. officials in Beijing played down the lack of an invitation, saying the timing of the Gore visit itself had not been set.
Other foreign analysts said an invitation would be made but there was little chance of a visit before a new premier takes office in 1998.
China is expected to sort out its leadership line-up at the Communist Party congress late next year and then formally install new government figures at the parliament meeting in March 1998.
"They (the Americans) seem to be waiting for the selection of the next premier," said another foreign diplomat.
Western leaders, including Americans, have been willing to meet Li in China. But for some of them, hosting him in their own country is another matter, diplomats said.
Li has been tarred with the decision to use military force to crush the pro-democracy protests in Beijing in 1989, though paramount leader Deng Xiaoping was the only man with sufficient clout to order in the army.
President Jiang was also elevated to his role as Communist Party chief because of his tough stance on dissent.
Li has not visited the United States, the United Kingdom or Australia since 1989. He has travelled to Germany, France and Canada since then, though he has been dogged by controversy on each trip.
Boeing Co's planned $13 billion acquisition of McDonnell Douglas Corp. will propel it to a leading position as a military contractor, matching its stature as the world leader in commercial aviation.
While Europe's Airbus Industrie is likely to feel competitive pressure because of Boeing's increased resources, industry analysts said the chief benefits for Boeing would be on the military side.
"Historically Boeing's military business was something of an also-ran," said Cai von Rumohr, an analyst at Cowen &amp; Co. "With this transaction in one fell swoop they become a very major player."
One analyst said the combined company could get nearly 50 percent of its revenues from government contracts, up from Boeing's historical 25 to 30 percent.
The deal follows by little more than a week the completion of Boeing's $3.2 billion acquisition of Rockwell International Corp's defence and space business.
And it comes just a month after McDonnell Douglas was eliminated from consideration to build the military's 21st century joint strike fighter plane.
Instead the Pentagon chose Boeing and Lockheed Martin Corp -- the nation's largest military contractor -- to build prototype versions of the new fighter jet in a contract that could be worth $200 billion or more to the eventual winner.
The addition of McDonnell Douglas' expertise makes Boeing "the team to beat" on the crucial programme, said Paul Nisbet of JSA Securities.
Analyst Nick Heymann of Natwest Securities said the loss of the joint strike fighter was the crowning blow for McDonnell Douglas, which already had announced its intention to back away from the commercial aviation market, where it has been only a marginal player in recent years.
"McDonnell Douglas just didn't have the resources to aggressively fund its development programmes," he said. "They got stretched too thin on transports and fighters and commercial, and they underinvested."
Nevertheless the friendly all-stock deal does not necessarily mean that McDonnell Douglas executives failed in their effort to turn around the company, analysts said.
For one thing the offer price of about $62.89 a share based on Friday's close is well beyond the stock's all-time high and about 10 times its level of the early 1990s, said Wolfgang Demisch of BT Securities.
In addition the merger is being done at the very beginning of an expansion cycle in the industry, meaning layoffs can be minimised and the companies have several years to rationalise their operations before the next expected downturn.
"It isn't a case that you're merging because you're starving to death," said Demisch. "It's a case that there's lots of opportunity. ... That's a much healthier basis on which to consolidate."
Indeed Boeing chief executive Phil Condit said the combined companies would have revenues of $48 billion next year, up more than 30 percent from a projected $35 billion this year.
"We are going to be going after $1 billion or more of savings a year, but we are going to be doing in it in an environment where the overall growth is occurring," Condit said at a news conference. "That's the advantage we have got right now."
Condit, who will become chairman and chief executive officer of the combined company, said final merger negotiations began Tuesday, the day after he was elected to become Boeing's chairman effective Feb. 1.
While Boeing does not currently need additional capacity to produce commercial jets, it will benefit from additional engineering strength, which will allow it to produce new models or variations of existing jets more quickly.
Analysts predicted the deal would win clearance from federal antitrust regulators, noting that no protests were raised this month when the two companies struck a deal to work together on engineering new wide-body jets.
And analysts said they thought the deal would win approval from the Pentagon, which has encouraged industry consolidation and backed the deal that created No. 1 defence contractor Lockheed Martin in 1994.
Perhaps the chief concern for federal regulators will be Boeing's overwhelming size, which will be nearly twice that of its nearest rival Lockeheed Martin if the deal goes through.
Partners in European aircraft consortium Airbus must speed up plans to convert the partnership into a single company after news of a merger between its two U.S. competitors, an aerospace executive said on Sunday.
Boeing Co and McDonnell Douglas earlier announced a $13.3 billion merger plan which would create the world's largest aerospace firm, with 1997 sales of about $48 billion and employing 200,000 people, dwarfing rival Airbus.  
The merger meant Airbus's shareholders had "to get their act together quickly," the executive said.
Airbus is a consortium made up of Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc (BAe), Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
The partners, who are also Airbus subcontractors, are in talks on how to change the grouping into a joint stock company from the present "groupement d'interet economique" (GIE) partnership. The aim is to create a more competitive and responsive organisation.  
"The need for the Europeans to integrate becomes more urgent," the executive said. The merger move showed "the arguments (between partners) are trivial."
BAe's group managing director John Weston has said the future Airbus should be a large, integrated company with design offices, manufacturing and sales functions, and have a solid balance sheet to finance aircraft sales, to better rival Boeing.  
But Aerospatiale's chairman Yves Michot has said he sees the new Airbus as essentially a large prime contractor, directing its suppliers' work, but retaining its design offices.
Some executives see the design office as the heart of the business, with the ability to create new aircraft. Aerospatiale's design office are in the southwestern city of Toulouse, next to Airbus headquarters.  
Eventually, BAe wants Airbus to be the civilian arm of a huge pan-European aerospace grouping, with a military wing to build future generations of combat planes, built from the national companies.
But for the time being, the partners also need to resolve differences over the valuation and transfer of assets.
Airbus declined comment. "We can't comment on things happening in North America," an Airbus spokeswoman said.
Officials at Aerospatiale were not available for comment.  
The Airbus negotiations slowed over the summer, when the government moved then-chairman Louis Gallois to the helm of troubled state railway operator SNCF and promoted his number two, Yves Michot.
A memorandum of understanding was due to be signed by the end of this year setting out the main lines of the new company, but the industry executive said the talks are due to last through the winter, up to March 31.
U.S. broker Lehman Brothers has estimated Airbus could be worth between $15-18 billion after its conversion, based on historical and prospective financial data.  
Previous major consolidation moves in the United States between fierce rivals such as Lockheed and Martin Marietta, and now Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, showed all that was needed was the ability to look ahead and for the political will to exist.
The internal debate over the shape and scope of the future Airbus has run on for years, with managing director Jean Pierson a fervent enthusiast of an integrated company. The new Airbus company is supposed to be formed by the end of 1999.
Airbus expects to notch up firm orders for more than 300 aircraft in 1996, worth around $20 billion, compared to 106 sales last year, worth $7 billion. Boeing said it has received orders for 621 planes at the end of November.
The irony is that Airbus held merger talks with McDonnell Douglas in 1988, but the U.S. firm was stronger in those days and Airbus had not consolidated its position in the world market. The European company has historically held around a 30 percent share of the market, with Boeing around 60 percent and McDonnell 10 percent.
A deal with the United States to open Japan's $400 billion insurance market will create some convulsions in the industry, but analysts said Sunday it will help make way for the deregulation of Japan's financial sector.
A final agreement was reached on Sunday, ending a dispute that President Clinton had called the biggest trade barrier between the two nations.
While it focuses on such esoteric issues as who can sell cancer healthcare policies and whether auto insurance can be purchased through the mail, the issue had become a major political dispute.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher even got in on the act, calling his Japanese counterpart to apply some last-minute pressure ahead of the Sunday deadline. Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said he was relieved that the whole thing was over.
The United States, in a statement issued by its embassy here, said the measures "represent fundamental change in the Japanese insurance market, making it more open and competitive."
Insurance trade groups were less than thrilled, however, saying the agreement ignores the needs of consumers and keeps their firms out of some fast-growing parts of the business.
Under the agreement, Japanese companies will be allowed -- in stages -- to enter the niche "third sector" that includes cancer, healthcare and accident coverage. This is the area where foreign firms have gained a foothold.
Foreign firms are expected to benefit from a deregulation of rates in the non-life insurance sector, including fire and auto insurance, to take place by the end of 1998.
Analysts say that even without the U.S. pressure, the changes were coming as part of Hashimoto's drive to revitalise Japan's financial sector.
"It was a matter of when," said Kouya Hasegawa, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre.
He said that as with most deregulation, smaller firms will find it tougher to compete in the new world.
"The liberalisation of premiums is a major blow to the non-life insurance industry, particularly medium- to small-sized firms," Hasegawa said
Takehito Yamanaka, an analyst at SBC Warburg (Japan) Ltd, agreed: "It is inevitable that non-life insurers will compete by cutting premiums."
It was not until October that Tokyo removed a ban on mail-order auto insurance under U.S. pressure. Without a network of agents, insurance by mail was seen as an important step for foreign firms.
Income from auto insurance policies accounts for 40 percent to 50 percent of income at non-life insurance companies, analysts say.
Last month, American Home Assurance Co. announced plans for what it says will be Japan's first mail-order car insurance service.
Analysts said the liberalisation of the premiums would eventually result in the disappearance of some financially weak firms and an increase in mergers.
To cope with deregulation, major non-life insurance firm Yasuda Fire &amp; Marine Co. Ltd recently announced it would take a majority stake in the Japanese unit of U.S. life insurance giant CIGNA Corp. within the next year or two, the first time a Japanese non-life insurer has purchased a life insurance operation.
Under Japan's new Insurance Business Law, which took effect on April 1, non-life and life insurers were allowed to enter each other's business sectors for the first time.
Some in the industry argue that deregulation could create huge problems. They say that higher rates will lead to more uninsured drivers and jeopardise the protection of accident victims.
But no one is predicting that the concerns will stop a deregulation drive across the financial sector that comes to Japan a decade after it hit most industrialised nations.
Partners in European aircraft consortium Airbus must speed up plans to convert the partnership into a single company after news of a merger between its two U.S. competitors, an aerospace executive said on Sunday.
Boeing Co and McDonnell Douglas announced a $13.3 billion merger plan which would create the world's largest aerospace firm, with 1997 sales of about $48 billion and employing 200,000 people, dwarfing rival Airbus.
The merger meant Airbus shareholders had "to get their act together quickly", said the executive, who asked not to be identified.
Airbus is a consortium made up of France's Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc (BAe), Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Germany's Daimler-Benz AG, and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
An Airbus spokesman said the U.S. merger would not alter the competitive threat to Airbus: "(McDonnell) Douglas hasn't been a competitor in the civilian aircraft business for a number of years," the spokesman said. "So it hasn't altered the equation in the commercial field at all for Airbus."
Boeing is effectively swallowing up McDonnell Douglas, he said. "It was expected Douglas would have to look in the civil field for its fortunes elsewhere, or merge, or opt out of the business altogether," he said. Boeing was the obvious merger candidate.
MD decided in October to drop plans to build the MD-XX wide body passenger jet, which would have doomed it to niche player status with its two current products, the MD-11 and MD-80/90.
Airbus, which has historically held around a 30 percent market share, with Boeing some 60 percent and McDonnell 10 percent, wants at least half the market by the end of the decade.
Airbus expects to notch up firm orders for more than 300 aircraft in 1996, worth around $20 billion, compared to 106 sales last year, worth $7 billion. Boeing said it has received orders for 621 planes at the end of November.
The Airbus partners, who are also Airbus subcontractors, are in talks on how to change the grouping into a joint stock company from the present "groupement d'interet economique" (economic interest group) partnership. The aim is to create a more competitive and responsive organisation.
"The need for the Europeans to integrate becomes more urgent," said the executive who spoke on condityion of anonymity. The merger move showed "the arguments (between partners) are trivial".
BAe's group managing director John Weston has said the future Airbus should be a large, integrated company with design offices and manufacturing and sales functions, and have a solid balance sheet to finance aircraft sales, to better rival Boeing.
But Aerospatiale's chairman Yves Michot has said he sees the new Airbus as essentially a large prime contractor, directing its suppliers' work but retaining its design offices.
Some executives see the design office as the heart of the business, with the ability to create new aircraft. Aerospatiale's design offices are in the southwestern French city of Toulouse, next to Airbus headquarters.
Eventually, BAe wants Airbus to be the civilian arm of a huge pan-European aerospace grouping, with a military wing to build future generations of combat planes, built from the national companies.
But for the time being, the partners also need to resolve differences over the valuation and transfer of assets.
The Airbus negotiations slowed over the summer, when the French government moved the then chairman, Louis Gallois, to the helm of troubled state railway operator SNCF and promoted his number two, Yves Michot.
An agreement was due to be signed by the end of 1996 setting out the main lines of the new Airbus but the industry executive said the talks are due to last up to March 31.
U.S. broker Lehman Brothers has estimated Airbus could be worth between $15-18 billion after its conversion, based on historical and prospective financial data.
The internal debate over the shape and scope of the future Airbus has run on for years, with managing director Jean Pierson a fervent enthusiast for an integrated company. The new Airbus company is supposed to be formed by the end of 1999.
Partners in European aircraft consortium Airbus must speed up plans to convert the partnership into a single company after news of a merger between its two U.S. competitors, an aerospace executive said on Sunday.
Boeing Co and McDonnell Douglas announced a $13.3 billion merger plan which would create the world's largest aerospace firm, with 1997 sales of about $48 billion and employing 200,000 people, dwarfing rival Airbus.
The merger meant Airbus shareholders had "to get their act together quickly", the executive said.
Airbus is a consortium made up of France's Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc (BAe), Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Germany's Daimler-Benz AG, and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
The European company has historically held around a 30 percent share of the market, with Boeing holding around 60 percent and McDonnell 10 percent.
Airbus expects to notch up firm orders for more than 300 aircraft in 1996, worth around $20 billion, compared to 106 sales last year, worth $7 billion. Boeing said it has received orders for 621 planes at the end of November.
The Airbus partners, who are also Airbus subcontractors, are in talks on how to change the grouping into a joint stock company from the present "groupement d'interet economique" (economic interest group) partnership. The aim is to create a more competitive and responsive organisation.
"The need for the Europeans to integrate becomes more urgent," said the executive, who asked not to be identified. The merger move showed "the arguments (between partners) are trivial".
BAe's group managing director John Weston has said the future Airbus should be a large, integrated company with design offices and manufacturing and sales functions, and have a solid balance sheet to finance aircraft sales, to better rival Boeing.
But Aerospatiale's chairman Yves Michot has said he sees the new Airbus as essentially a large prime contractor, directing its suppliers' work but retaining its design offices.
Some executives see the design office as the heart of the business, with the ability to create new aircraft. Aerospatiale's design offices are in the southwestern French city of Toulouse, next to Airbus headquarters.
Eventually, BAe wants Airbus to be the civilian arm of a huge pan-European aerospace grouping, with a military wing to build future generations of combat planes, built from the national companies.
But for the time being, the partners also need to resolve differences over the valuation and transfer of assets.
Airbus officials in France declined comment. "We can't comment on things happening in North America," a spokeswoman said. Officials at Aerospatiale were not available for comment.
The Airbus negotiations slowed over the summer, when the French government moved the then chairman, Louis Gallois, to the helm of troubled state railway operator SNCF and promoted his number two, Yves Michot.
A memorandum of understanding was due to be signed by the end of this year setting out the main lines of the new company but the industry executive said the talks are due to last up to March 31.
U.S. broker Lehman Brothers has estimated Airbus could be worth between $15-18 billion after its conversion, based on historical and prospective financial data.
Previous major consolidation moves in the United States between fierce rivals such as Lockheed and Martin Marietta, and now Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, showed all that was needed was the ability to look ahead and for the political will to exist.
The internal debate over the shape and scope of the future Airbus has run on for years, with managing director Jean Pierson a fervent enthusiast for an integrated company. The new Airbus company is supposed to be formed by the end of 1999.
The irony is that Airbus held merger talks with McDonnell Douglas in 1988 but the U.S. firm was stronger in those days and Airbus had not consolidated its position in the world market.
The tentative deal with the United States to open Japan's insurance market will create some convulsions in the industry, but will help pave the way for the financial sector deregulation both sides say is vital.
A basic agreement was reached on Saturday, ending a dispute that U.S. President Bill Clinton had called the biggest trade barrier between the two nations.
While it focuses on such esoteric issues as who can sell cancer healthcare policies and whether auto insurance can be purchased through the mail, the issue had become a major political dispute.
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher even got in on the act, calling his Japanese counterpart to apply some last-minute pressure ahead of the Sunday deadline, and Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said he was relieved that the whole thing was over.
Insurance trade groups were less than thrilled, however, saying the agreement ignores the needs of consumers and keeps their firms out of some fast-growing parts of the business.
Under the agreement, Japanese companies will be allowed -- in stages -- to enter the niche "third sector" that includes cancer, healthcare and accident coverage. This is the area where foreign firms have gained a foothold.
Foreign firms are expected to benefit from a deregulation of rates in the non-life insurance sector, including fire and auto insurance, to take place by the end of 1998.
Analysts say that even without the U.S. pressure, the changes were coming as part of Hashimoto's drive to revitalise Japan's financial sector.
"It was a matter of when," said Kouya Hasegawa, an analyst at Nikko Research Centre.
He said that as with most deregulation, smaller firms will find it tougher to compete in the new world.
"The liberalisation of premiums is a major blow to the non-life insurance industry, particularly medium- to small-sized firms," Hasegawa said
Takehito Yamanaka, an analyst at SBC Warburg (Japan) Ltd, agreed: "It is inevitable that non-life insurers will compete by cutting premiums."
Medium and small insurers must streamline their network of sales agents to cut costs, he said.
It was not until October that Tokyo removed a ban on mail-order auto insurance under U.S. pressure. Without a network of agents, insurance by mail was seen as an important step for foreign firms.
Income from auto insurance policies account for 40 percent to 50 percent of income at non-life insurance companies, analysts say.
Last month, American Home Assurance Co announced plans for what it says will be Japan's first mail-order car insurance service.
Analysts said the liberalisation of the premiums would eventually result in the disappearance of some financially weak firms and an increase in mergers.
To cope with deregulation, major non-life insurance firm Yasuda Fire &amp; Marine Co Ltd recently announced it would take a majority stake in the Japanese unit of U.S. life insurance giant CIGNA Corp within the next year or two, the first time a Japanese non-life insurer has purchased a life insurance operation.
Under Japan's new Insurance Business Law, which took effect on April 1, non-life and life insurers were allowed to enter each other's business sectors for the first time.
Some in the industry argue that deregulation could create huge problems. They say that higher rates will lead to more uninsured drivers and jeopardise the protection of accident victims.
But no one is predicting that the concerns will stop a deregulation drive across the financial sector that comes to Japan a decade after it hit most industrialised nations.
A Florida judge said on Monday that tobacco-company lawyers fighting a massive secondhand- smoking suit brought by sick flight attendants were unlikely to win separate trials for each of as many as 300,000 claims.
Tobacco-company lawyers arguing during an informal hearing in the run-up to a June 2 class-action trial said lung cancer, cardiac ailments and 21 other illnesses attributed by rival lawyers to secondhand smoke inhalation were too complicated to lump together in one trial.  
"There is no way a jury can be asked to weed out these complications," said Hugh Whiting, an attorney for the RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co, a unit of RJR Nabisco Holdings.
Whiting and lawyers for other tobacco companies such as the Brown &amp; Williamson unit of B.A.T Industries Plc said each case was different and the connection between a malady and secondhand smoke would have to individually proven.
But Dade County Circuit Court Judge Robert Kaye said so many trials would be impossible to hold and he expects a two-part trial process for the class-action suit brought by two Miami lawyers to begin June 2.  
In the first, a jury will determine whether or not tobacco companies conspired to keep evidence of dangers from secondhand smoke from the public and if scientific evidence is strong enough to legally blame the illnesses incurred by non-smoking flight attendants on the cigarette smoke they inhaled while working.
A second trial will set money damages, if the tobacco companies lose in the first. But he said that, while he had made no final decision, he believed the claims by the flight attendants could be grouped by category and be handled by just one jury.  
"There's no reason this trial cannot be tried by one jury," Kaye said.
The judge also said he was near deciding the particulars of a campaign to reach the estimated 160,000 to 300,000 U.S. flight attendants who would be eligible for compensation if the class-action suit is lost by the tobacco industry.
Whiting pressed for a national media campaign, in addition to an agreed mailing to about 160,000 current and former flight attendants. He also proposed establishing a toll-free contact number. Such costs would be borne by the flight-attendants lawyers.
Flight-attendants attorneys Stanley and Susan Rosenblatt said such a campaign was wasteful and very expensive and that word-of-mouth spurred by the mail campaign would lift the number of people joining in the class-action suit.
The flight-attendants suit is one of several high-stakes anti-tobacco suits scheduled to come to trial in Florida and elswhere in the United States during 1997. On Friday, another Florida judge overseeing a case brought by the State of Florida ruled tobacco companies can be sued under Florida's anti-racketeering law.
-- Miami newsroom 305-374-5013.
Boeing Co.'s stunning agreement to acquire longtime rival McDonnell Douglas Corp. won a ringing endorsement from Wall Street and sent shock waves through the aerospace industry Monday.
Stock in both companies soared on expectations the deal would boost Boeing's operating profits immediately after its completion, targeted for mid-1997.
Boeing rose $4.375 to $101.125 and McDonnell Douglas jumped $10.375 to $62.375, down from earlier highs on the New York Stock Exchange but good enough to give the all-stock transaction an indicated value of nearly $14 billion.
Industry analysts saw few obstacles to the deal, which marks a startling transformation for a company that just a year ago was completing a final round of cutbacks that had slashed its work force by 30 percent in five years.
Since then Boeing has completed the $3.2 billion acquisition of Rockwell International Corp.'s defense and space business, won the right to compete for the richest military contract in Pentagon history and announced orders for a record $45.6 billion in new commercial jets.
"It's an incredible turnaround story," said Jon Kutler, president of Quarterdeck Investment Partners, which specializes in aerospace. "These are very bold, dramatic, uncharacteristic moves for Boeing and I applaud them for it."
While Boeing had been moving to cut costs and transform its management style under outgoing Chairman Frank Shrontz, the pace has accelerated at the once-sluggish company since Phil Condit was named chief executive officer in April.
Condit began the final round of merger negotiations with McDonnell Douglas last Tuesday, just a day after being formally elected Boeing chairman as of Feb. 1, 1997.
"We're seeing Boeing evolve from kind of a stodgy company to being very aggressive, nimble," said Bill Whitlow, a longtime Boeing analyst at Pacific Crest Securities who praised Condit's energy and stamina.
Executives at the two companies said the deal would be additive to operating profits immediately and reiterated their prediction that Boeing could achieve $1 billion in annual savings without any layoffs because of rapid growth.
Analysts said the merger was a good strategy for McDonnell Douglas, which already had announced plans to pull back from commercial aviation when it was eliminated from bidding for the Pentagon's 21st century joint strike fighter.
But Harry Stonecipher, chief executive of McDonnell Douglas, denied that the merger was born of desperation.
"This is the deal we wanted and we are very happy with it," Stonecipher told CNBC. "This is the only deal we considered."
Boeing executives told analysts they had no immediate plans to make further acquisitions, even though the combined company will generate cash flow of more than $4 billion a year on projected 1997 revenue of $48 billion.
The surprise merger immediately turned up the heat on Europe's Airbus Industrie to move ahead quickly with a restructuring plan. Without such a plan, the consortium would be unable to go ahead with a proposed super-jumbo aircraft to compete with Boeing's 747, which now is unchallenged at the profitable top end of the market, analysts said.
"Airbus Industrie and its partners must agree as soon as possible on an optimal structure that will allow Airbus Industrie to match its American competitors as a powerful, integrated European enterprise," German Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt said in a statement.
Analysts noted that Boeing had ended any chance that Airbus would partner with McDonnell on a new large jet, and some said Boeing's own plans to stretch the 747 might now be deferred.
But both Airbus and Boeing could benefit from stabilized airplane prices with the No. 3 player out of the market.
Despite some overlapping businesses, including helicopters, rockets and missiles, experts saw little possibility the deal would be stopped by the Defense Department, although the combination of the nation's only manufacturers of commercial jets could give pause to federal antitrust regulators.
"It will be interesting to see what the airlines have to say about this," said Don Baker, a former antitrust official now with the firm Baker and Miller in Washington.
"It's worth remembering that there would be just two players in the worldwide market for big planes," he said. "But maybe two is enough competition for the airlines."
On the defense side, analysts said they expected the marriage of Boeing and McDonnell to spur further consolidation, with players such as Raytheon Co. and Northrop Grumman Corp. looking for partners.
Cowen &amp; Co. analyst Cai von Rumohr said the deal gives Raytheon, which supplies missile systems, "a window of opportunity" to buy Hughes Electronics Corp..
"It's not a long-term window," he said. "It will probably last until the (Boeing-McDonnell) deal is closed."
The proposed union of Boeing Co and McDonnell Douglas Corp dramatically raises the stakes for survival in the defense industry, which already has experienced intense consolidation.
Global players, including Northrop Grumman Corp, Raytheon Co and Hughes Electronics Corp, are expected to seek partners in a new cycle of mergers.
"This has broken an uneasy truce in the defense industry," said Jon Kutler, president of Quarterdeck Investment Partners Inc, which specializes in aerospace and defense.  
Although the pace of defense mergers recently has slowed from the booming levels of early 1996, the Boeing-McDonnell Douglas combination is expected to trigger a resurgence of activity, industry experts said.
"This transaction establishes a level of scale that is going to urge additional consolidation. It's clearly going to drive us toward, instead of eight or 10 large firms, three or four mega-corporations," said James Schwendinger, director of Deloitte &amp; Touche's aerospace and defense practice.  
Northrop Grumman is viewed as a leading buyer of defense electronics properties. Shares of the company jumped 1-3/4 to 81-1/8 on views that the Boeing-McDonnell Douglas transaction may speed up its acquisition plans.
"All of a sudden, the scale of Northrop Grumman has been diminished by this merger," said one defense industry source who did not want to be identified.
Formed in 1994 from a union between Northrop and Grumman Corp, the company earlier this year bought Westinghouse Electric Corp's defense business for $3.6 billion in one of the biggest defense deals of 1996.  
A spokesman for Northrop Grumman declined to comment on merger activites, but noted that electronics is a growing part of the company's business.
"We have clearly embarked on a strategy of transforming the company from primarily an airplane builder to electronics," said Tony Cantafio.
Meanwhile, current defense industry leader Lockheed Martin Corp, which early this year bought Loral Corp for $9.1 billion, is viewed as well-positioned to compete against the new and larger Boeing. Lockheed Martin said in a statement on Monday that ongoing industry consolidation is vital.  
"They've gone from being king of the hill to having to share it. They're in an extremely strong position," Kutler said of Lockheed Martin.
The defense sector already has seen several consolidation cycles due to declines in federal spending. But those deals were dwarfed by the latest $13.9 billion merger announced on Sunday.
Industry experts said prices and bidding is expected to intensify for attractive properties, noting that reported seller Hughes Electronics is likely to benefit. Industry sources previously targeted McDonnell Douglas as a potential buyer of Hughes.  
A spokesman for Hughes could not be reached for comment, but the company previously has said in an SEC filing that it would consider acquisitions and consolidation.
Hughes is a unit of General Motors Corp.
The Boeing-McDonnell Douglas combination also is expected to trigger consolidation around the globe.
"This may set the stage for a whole new set of (buyers) from Europe," said Thomas Gallagher, head of the aerospace division at CIBC Woody Gundy, who expects cross-border consolidation in Europe to intensify.  
"The key dimension of defense today is scale. This business takes a huge amount of investment," Gallagher said.
The second large merger between insurance brokers in the space of a week highlights the dilemma many in the industry face over how to counter overcapacity and increasing competition, analysts said on Monday.
The latest move, a 300 million pound ($500 million) merger between Britain's Lloyd Thompson Group and JIB Group comes hard on the heels of last week's $1.23 billion acquisition of New York's Alexander &amp; Alexander Services (A&amp;A) by U.S. broking giant Aon Corp.
Different in scale, the two deals are also very different in motivation but both point to a clear trend in the sector -- consolidation.
Vast overcapacity in broking has left the industry struggling in recent years.
The Aon/A&amp;A deal was driven by a desire to attack costs, increasingly seen as one of the few ways forward for an industry beset by falling rates and declining revenues.
But the merger of Lloyd Thompson and JIB to create Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group is different. It has not been prompted by a search for cost savings but by an effort to release the benefits from the two companies' "complementary" businesses.
Cost savings will be restricted largely to the companies' London operations and the opportunities to build upon each others existing businesses, particularly in Asia Pacific, will be the main drive in future growth, according to Lloyd Thompson chief executive Ken Carter.
However, elsewhere in the sector the need to find ways of offsetting the pressure on rates by stripping out costs, like Aon, has raised the prospect of further deals to come.
Rumours that Aon or Marsh &amp; McLennan were about to launch a takeover bid for British-based broker Sedgwick swept the insurance markets on Friday.
Such rumours are fuelled by the the hand-in-glove nature of the business, say analysts.
"The brokers are constantly in discussions about mergers; they chat all the time. And one is always surprised by seeing the industry bash on, trying to purge overcapacity through consolidation," said one analyst.
One of the main problems with any merger between brokerages is defection of staff. Another is the diminishing number of would-be predators.
While Aon refused to comment on Friday's Sedgwick rumours, a spokeswoman for the company did point out the need to "digest" its most recent prurchases.
The newly merged Jardine Lloyd Thompson will be positioned between global brokers such as Britain's Sedgwick and Willis Corroon and smaller niche brokers such as Lowndes Lambert and C.E. Heath. It is also likely to leave them in something of a dilemma.
As the number of more obvious deals are done, the pressure on those remaining to come up with a means of remaining competitive is likely to rise. Mergers or acquisitions may, however, become less attractive as the more logical tie-ups in the sector are done, leaving those left with fewer options.
"Brokers are all cutting costs but if rates continue to fall, they'll all be cutting back to keep up with the revenue stream coming down. There has to be a huge shock to the industry which will take out a few of the players. Until that happens brokerage isn't going anywhere," said one analyst.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7721 ($ = 0.602 British Pounds)
The fate of one of the world's most glittering gold finds landed back in the hands of the Indonesian government on Monday after two Canadian mining concerns said they finally agreed on a plan of joint development.
Canadian gold giant Barrick Gold Corp. and Bre-X Minerals Ltd. ended weeks of speculation on whether they could work together when they submitted a proposal to develop the huge Busang deposit, which contains at least 57 million ounces of gold.
"We've made a submission...which says we can work together if the government can satisfy requests by both parties on a couple of items," Bre-X chief executive officer David Walsh said in a phone interview from New York.
"Within the document, there were certain concerns that we've asked the government to give us guidance on," said Walsh. "They are concerns from both parties."
He would not say what the concerns were, but he said price was not an issue.
The Indonesian government told the two companies in November to form a joint venture, with Barrick gaining 75 percent and Bre-X keeping 25 percent. The two companies were also asked to give the government a 10 percent cut.
The joint submission "is in accord with the government parameters," said Barrick spokesman Vince Borg. Neither company would say what the terms or structure of the proposed deal were or whether Bre-X shareholders would have a chance to vote on it.
They said a government response was expected in due course.
The government has twice extended a deadline for the two companies, with the latest extension being the end of December.
"This to me looks like they're doing what (Indonesian president) Suharto asked," said gold analyst Rick Cohen with Goepel Shields in Vancouver.
"There wasn't much else Bre-X could have done at this point."
The government's statements have angered Bre-X shareholders and hurt the company's once high-flying stock on Canadian stock exchanges.
One group of shareholders has hired high profile Texas lawyers to make sure shareholders get a fair deal.
"Talk of lawsuits is premature. We've got to see an offer first," said Greg Chorny, a retired lawyer who lives near Toronto and is spearheading the initiative. "We'll see what they have on the table, judge it and react appropriately."
Until Monday, Bre-X had been optimistic that the Indonesian government would endorse an open bidding process for Busang. Mining giants Placer Dome Inc., Newmont Mining Corp. and Teck Corp. have expressed interest.
But the statements from Barrick and Bre-X on Monday suggested there was little hope of an auction process, analysts said.
"We still remain hopeful," Placer Dome spokesman Hugh Leggatt said. "It's not over till it's over."
Investors appeared to be dumping Bre-X shares on Monday and picking up Barrick shares to participate in Busang, analysts said.
Barrick stock was up C$1.35 to C$40.15 while Bre-X fell C$1 to C$20 by late afternoon trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Bulk cocoa shipments from West Africa will more than double to 325,000 tonnes in 1996/97, solidifying a cost-cutting trend sparked by recent trial shipments, exporters and shippers said.
"West African shipments will reach at least 325,000 tonnes this year (1996/97)," said one trader, with most going to large Amsterdam-based buyers. "And that is only a start." he added.
Bulk shipments include beans stuffed directly into containers or poured loose into ship's holds, replacing traditional stacks of 60 kg jute bags.
Ivory Coast would ship about 270,000 tonnes in bulk this year. The world's largest producer blazed the trail by shipping 120,000 tonnes in 1995/96 as bagged cocoa lost favour with large buyers, said the source.
Of this year's total, about 260,000 tonnes would be shipped for two Amsterdam-based clients out of an expected crop of 900,000 to one million tonnes, said the trader.
Less than half, about 120,000 tonnes, would be shipped loose on holds against the same tonnage for all forms of bulk shipments in 1995/96. The remainder would be leave in twenty-foot bag-lined containers packed with drying agents.
Additional shipments of about 5,000 tonnes for trials to Germany, and less for Mediterranean ports would take the total of both bulk methods to around 270,000 tonnes.
Ghana is also expected to build on small shipments with 25,000 tonnes possibly leaving in December. Volumes from Nigeria and Cameroun are widely expected to rise.
Little was shipped in bulk from other West African ports last year but shipping companies say that will change.
Dutch transporters Spliethoffe completed three successful trials from Ivory Coast in 1995/96 totalling about 10,000 tonnes followed by another 110,000 tonnes for processors Gerkens and Cacao De Zaan.
The loading and shipment methods developed then has prompted an expected 100 percent plus jump in overall regional tonnages for 1996/97, say shippers.
Shipping lines Nedlloyd, Compagnie Maritime Belge (CMB) and Delmas (SDV) are already taking bulk cargos from forwarders SAGA and Delmas, and Ivorian exporters/forwarders Jean-Abile Gal and SIFCA.
"Each have loading systems (total of 8) in Abidjan and San Pedro (Ivory Coast's second port) but only direct users have reception facilities," a West Africa region shipping manager said. "Not everyone has a 4,000 tonnes a day capacity plant with storage facilities," he added, referring to large processors in Amsterdam.
"In future, about  25 percent of all cocoa will leave in bulk," said one shipping manager, depending on the size of the reference crop
The manager of another shipper handling large volumes put the figure at 40 percent by 2000 for Ivory Coast.
"The economics are simple. What used to be shipped in four containers is now shipped in three," he said, or 100 tonees per six 20 foot containers.
Shipping companies had gained a 25 percent freight space saving and exporters would expect rebates in return, he said.
A typical charter on FIOS (free in and out, stowed) rates would be 55 dollars, with another 25 dollars in handling to be added depending on terms, said one shipping line.
The marginal cost of loading a container was about 3,750 CFA a tonne with 55,000 CFA for positioning a container, but labour and time savings more than compensated. Conveyor belts, silos and tip-up containers are all used for loading.
Plans to build a new bulk reception warehouse in Amsterdam unveiled by Dutch Cocoa Association (NCV) president Louis Bensdorp on Friday would encourage bulk cocoa advocates, said local exporters.
-- Abidjan newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Germany and the Czech republic announced on Monday that a long-awaited declaration on post- World War Two reconciliation would be initialled this week but politicians on both sides withheld final approval of the text.
The two foreign ministries said Czech Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec and Germany's Klaus Kinkel would sign the document in Prague on Friday, at a ceremony ending two years of talks.
The declaration, expressing regret at both Nazi atrocities during the war and the expulsion of ethnic Germans from former Czechoslovakia afterwards, then has to be signed by the two countries' presidents and confirmed by the two parliaments.
But Germany's Christian Social Union (CSU), political sponsor of the expelled Germans, said its support for the text was not guaranteed.
"I would speak of a conditional 'yes'," Finance Minister and CSU chairman Theo Waigel told reporters. He said last-minute changes to the text could not be ruled out.
Final approval from the CSU, a partner in the Bonn coalition, would depend on assurances that the Sudeten Germans, as they are known, would be "involved at an appropriate level" in a dialogue between Prague and Bonn, he said.
The Bavarian-based CSU has in the past hinted it could use its weight in the government to block the declaration or oppose the Czech Republic's application to join the European Union unless the Sudeten Germans were given better terms.
In the Czech parliament the mainstream parties have backed the declaration, but the extreme-right Republican Party and far-left Communists have ruled out voting for it in any form.
Members of the largest Czech opposition party, the Social Democrats, whose votes may be crucial for approval by parliament, said on Sunday that they still had concerns about vaguely-worded compensation for victims of Nazi aggression.
"(The party) has done all it can for the declaration to be accepted, but it still expects a bit more work (on the text)," a Social Democrat senator from the once German-annexed district of Upper Moravia, Petr Moravek, told Czech Television.
Stanislav Gross, the head of the Social Democrat caucus in the house, was quoted in the daily Pravo on Monday as saying he would not vote for the declaration in its present form.
The Czech foreign ministry said in a statement that Zieleniec and Kinkel would "sign a protocol on the completion of negotiations of the Czech-German Declaration of mutual relations and their future development".
The full declaration, leaked to news media last week, contains mutual expressions of regret for the Nazi occupation from 1938 to 1945 and for excessive brutality during the post-war expulsion of the Sudeten Germans.
The text angered groups representing families of the Sudeten Germans, who complained that it did not compensate those who had lost property during the expulsions.
The declaration sets up a Czech-German Future Fund with the German side paying in 140 million marks ($90 million), and the Czechs paying about one-seventh of that.
The text says the fund is to finance "projects of common interest" including joint environmental, historical, and scientific projects, youth meetings, and partnership projects.
But the text adds that: "The German side acknowledges its obligation of responsibility to all who became victims of National-Socialist violence. That is why the projects, wherever appropriate, should work mainly for the benefit of the victims of National-Socialist violence."
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is expected to visit the Czech Republic, probably on January 21 and 22, to sign the text with Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
In early February Czech President Vaclav Havel and German President Roman Herzog are expected to address the parliaments of each other's countries in ceremonies giving final approval to the declaration.
Germany and the Czech republic will initial a long-awaited declaration on post-World War Two reconciliation between their two states on Friday in Prague, the Czech foreign ministry said on Monday.
A ceremony ending the two-year-long talks on the text will be held with Czech Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec and Germany's Klaus Kinkel in the first part of a three-stage confirmation.
The ministry said in a statement that the two would "sign a protocol on the completion of negotiations of the Czech-German Declaration of mutual relations and their future development".
The full declaration, leaked to news media last week, contains mutual expressions of regret for the Nazi occupation from 1938 to 1945 and for excessive brutality during the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans from former Czechoslovakia.
The text angered groups representing families of expelled Germans, known as Sudeten Germans, who complained that it did not compensate those who lost property during the expulsions.
But the Christian Social Union (CSU), the political sponsors of the Sudeten Germans, signalled on Monday it would no longer oppose the agreed text.
"By and large, the declaration will stand," Finance Minister and CSU chairman Theo Waigel told reporters.
The Bavarian-based CSU has in the past hinted it could use its weight in the government to block the declaration or oppose the Czech Republic's application to join the European Union unless the Sudeten Germans were given better terms.
But Waigel said it was a "great success" that Prague had gone as far as it had in apologising for the expulsions.
In the Czech parliament the mainstream parties have backed the declaration, but the extreme-right Republican Party and far-left Communists have ruled out voting for it in any form.
Members of the largest Czech opposition party, the Social Democrats, whose votes may be crucial for approval by parliament, said on Sunday that they still had concerns about vaguely-worded compensation for victims of Nazi aggression.
"(The party) has done all it can for the declaration to be accepted, but it still expects a bit more work (on the text)," a Social Democrat senator from the once German-annexed district of Upper Moravia, Petr Moravek, told Czech Television.
Stanislav Gross, the head of the Social Democrat caucus in the house, was quoted in the daily Pravo on Monday as saying he would not vote for the declaration in its present form.
The declaration sets up a Czech-German Future Fund with the German side paying in 140 million marks ($90 million), and the Czechs paying about one-seventh of that.
The text says the fund is to finance "projects of common interest" including joint environmental, historical, and scientific projects, youth meetings, and partnership projects.
But the text adds that: "The German side acknowledges its obligation of responsibility to all who became victims of National-Socialist violence. That is why the projects, wherever appropriate, should work mainly for the benefit of the victims of National-Socialist violence."
Diplomats said privately that the signing ceremony might take place somewhere outside Prague, but Czech officials said last week it would not take place in those areas which Germany annexed in 1938, known as the Sudetenland.
Prague is not part of the area Germany considered as the Sudetenland.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is expected to visit the Czech Republic, probably on January 21 and 22, to sign the text with Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus.
In early February Czech President Vaclav Havel and German President Roman Herzog are expected to address the parliaments of each other's countries in ceremonies giving final approval to the declaration.
A powerful car bomb exploded in the northwest city of Medellin early on Monday, killing one woman and injuring at least 15 other people, police chief Gen. Alfredo Salgado said.
About 120 pounds (50 kg) of dynamite was packed into a minibus and detonated outside the house of Juan Gomez Martinez, a regional newspaper editor and former provincial governor.
Four unidentified gunmen opened fire on private security guards near Gomez's home before the bomb went off about 5:30 a.m. (1030 GMT), Salgado said.
The dead woman was named as Lucia Bernal, 60, the wife of a civil engineer, who lived close to the site of the blast. Gomez was not home at the time but one of his three sons, Juan Camilo, was injured.
"We don't know the motive for this attack. It is too early to say who was behind it. We don't know if it was leftist guerrillas, drug traffickers or right-wing paramilitaries. We're looking at all the possibilities," Salgado said.
Gomez, a member of the opposition Conservative Party, is head of the regional El Colombiano newspaper, which has its headquarters in the industrial city of Medellin, the main city of Antioquia province.
In recent days it has been serializing an extensive interview with Carlos Castano, leader of the country's most-feared right-wing death squad, whose main target is leftist rebels and their suspected supporters.
A few hours after the bomb blast a hitherto unknown group, calling itself the Special Anti-Paramiltary Commando, issued a communique, a copy of which was obtained by Reuters, declaring war on paramilitary groups in Antioquia.
The organisation, claiming to be made up of ex-guerrillas who had laid down their arms, accused serving state governor Alvaro Uribe, of the Liberal Party's right wing, of sponsoring the paramilitaries. Uribe lives close to the site of Monday's blast but it was not clear whether the communique and the attack on Gomez's house were linked.
Medellin has in the past seen some of the worst violence unleashed by the country's powerful drug cartels. It was the scene of multiple attacks by the notorious drug mafia led by the late Pablo Escobar in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The cocaine kingpin waged war against the state in a successful bid to force Congress to ban the extradition of Colombians to the United States.
Last week Congress approved a tough new law designed to strip drug lords of their illicit billion dollar fortunes. More measures including stiffer jail terms are due to be debated in an extended session of Congress this week.
Resources and steel group The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd is expected to report a fall in half year net profit on Friday, but share analysts say Australia's biggest company is likely to be spared another stock market mauling.
BHP, still licking its wounds with sellers having wiped around A$5 billion off its market value since May, is tipped to post a first-half net profit of around A$760 million, down from A$811 million a year ago, according to analysts' forecasts.  
The result, for the six months to November 30, is expected to include roughly A$100 million in net proceeds from asset sales, but slight improvements in the battered copper and steel divisions are also likely to emerge, the analysts said.
BHP's share price, which hit a year high of A$20.05 in early May, has been on a mostly downward roller-coaster ride for the past six months as copper and steel prices turned sour, and analysts revised down their near-term profit forecasts.  
But the copper price has firmed in recent months, steel markets are thought to have bottomed, and brokerages are again reworking their outlooks. BHP shares have also rebounded, closing on Monday at A$17.31 after hitting A$15.58 in September.
"It's one of the few companies where analysts are revising the results upwards," said a fund manager's share analyst.
The five analysts contacted by Reuters on Monday gave widely varying forecasts for interim profit, ranging from A$715 million to a high of A$804 million. The analyst tipping A$715 million said he believed others had forecast even lower numbers.  
But the analysts agreed the interim result would show signs of improved performance in copper and steel, though they would fine tune their estimates after seeing the group's November production data, expected to be released on Tuesday.
"They have definitely had a good two quarters in petroleum and I guess they're struggling in minerals and copper and steel," a Melbourne-based analyst said.
"They are doing a good job given the environment."
Most analysts said they expected a modest profit recovery for full year 1996/97. BHP reported a 20 percent drop in pre-abnormal net profit of A$1.29 billion in 1995/96.  
BHP Petroleum, which in the first half of 1995/96 ranked behind the minerals and steel divisions in terms of profit, will be BHP's biggest earner in the interim result to be released on Friday, said JB Were and Son analyst Neil Goodwill.
"The asset sales are in there though," he said.
The analysts expect BHP to book between A$80 million and A$117 million in asset sales as operating profit, due in effect to gains on the sale of BHP's stake in the Mungo/Monan oil and gas fields in the North Sea and of its interest in the Sierra Chata gas field and Chihuidos block in Argentina.  
BHP also made a A$45 million profit from the sale of its 20 percent stake in an undeveloped gold prospect, Sun Prospecting and Mining Co Ltd, in South Africa. But this was offset by the A$45 million loss booked on the sale of its Mali gold assets.
BHP will not book any of these asset sales as abnormal items, deeming them too small to be taken below the line, one analyst said. But another analyst confessed he initially felt they were being taken above the line to mask the core result.  
"I thought that was the case and then the oil price shot up and copper is a bit better, so without that number (for asset sales) they would have had a reasonably good profit number anyway," he said.
BHP's Magma Copper operation should creep back into profit in the second quarter after posting a loss on a full-cost basis in the first quarter results, he said.
BHP bought Magma last January for US$2.4 billion, making it the world's second biggest copper producer. But the price tag has come under heavy criticism.  
BHP is expected to book a net abnormal gain of around A$100 million from the settlement of its dispute with the Victoria state government over a federal tax on Bass Strait gas revenues.
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1435
A sudden crackdown on China's fledging stock markets pushed most shares to limit-down levels on Monday and triggered an outcry from securities brokerages and retail investors.
The People's Daily, mouthpiece of the Communist Party, said in a commentary on Monday that the country's stock markets had overheated on widespread speculation and warned that Beijing would not step in to help if the stock markets plunged.
Virtually all shares on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets fell 10 percent, the daily limit announced by the authorities last Friday afternoon to prevent sharp fluctuations.
"This is very, very disappointing and outrageous," said one local stock analyst. "With this simple decision they can wipe out nearly all the gains in the securities business in a hard year."
"I can't understand it," said a trader. "Such administrative edicts will eventually kill the markets one day."
Analysts said they were shocked by the sudden change of direction by officials in Beijing.
Since April there have been many official statements, messages and hints indicating clearly that the stock markets had the official blessing of Beijing.
China's foreign currency B share market in Shanghai soared by about 80 percent between November 11 and December 10 while the bourse in the southern boomtown of Shenzhen rose by about 100 percent before sharp falls in the final days of last week.
Shanghai's A share index had surged more than 100 percent and Shenzhen's A share index nearly 300 percent since April.
"They had been talking about encouraging stock invesment and suddenly here comes the new policy," said a retail investor. "Most of us will have our money caught in the markets. It looks like prices will plunge and no one wants to buy."
Foreign brokers and analysts also slammed the sudden official intervention, saying it went counter to the trend in China of gradually allowing market forces and controls to play a greater role.
"Foreign investors will not welcome such administrative interference in the markets," said a Shanghai-based brokerage analyst. "What is worse is that it seems from the People's Daily editorial that they wanted to force prices down."
Shanghai's domestic A share index plunged 9.92 percent to 1,047.680 points and the foreign currency B shares fell 9.6 percent to 59.929 points.
In Shenzhen, the B share index dived 10 percent to 134.43, and the A share index also 10 percent to 417.20.
Brokers and analysts said they expected another 10 percent limit-down day for the markets on Tuesday, with virtually no buyers in sight, and a great sense of unease amongst investors about how quickly the market can be turned by officials edicts.
"For Shanghai B shares, tomorrow will be another 10 percent, but on the third day it may be less," said another foreign brokerage analyst. "Buying interest is very limited."
"Panic selling occurred in many securities trading halls in major brokerages," said one trader. "But nobody wants to buy. Investors believe current prices are very high taking into account the changed market fundamentals after the crackdown."
A second trader said market confidence was destroyed. "We can see no support for the time being," he said. The B index is likely to head for a historical low at around 45 points shortly."
In Shenzhen, local brokers said most Shenzhen-listed stocks were likely to register limit-down closes over the next few sessions as investors have been intimidated by the People's Daily commentary.
"They could have adopted other measures such as an effective ban on widespread illicit trading by institutional punters to cap share prices," a Shenzhen trader complained. "Instead, this method sacrifices many innocent, small investors."
Many investors, including institutions, were sitting on heavy losses on today's fall and investor confidence was unlikely to recover over the short term, brokers said.
($1=8.3 yuan)
China has taken its cue from U.S. Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan and tried to talk its raging stock markets lower but some investors said Beijing regulators did not need to shout.
China's official People's Daily ran a front-page commentary on Monday calling on investors to behave rationally in investing in the market, warning that what goes up must come down.
The commentary, carried prominently in major financial newspapers as well, also reminded the investing public that the safest place to put its money was in the bank.
Many Chinese officials and stock market brokers noted similarities to Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan's now famous remarks this month about "irrational exuberance" of U.S. markets.
Greenspan's remarks, which did not specifically mention stocks, were clear enough to send share markets around the globe into a steep, if brief, fall. Since then many investors have remained cautious.
"There were definite similarities in approach," said a stock market policy official who declined to be identified.
"They (regulators) are looking at the same objectives -- the stock markets were too high and they hoped the markets would move lower," he said.
A spokeswoman for the China Securities Regulatory Commission chuckled over the suggestion that Greenspan might have inspired Beijing's action.
"Our objective was to bring some stability to the market," she said without elaborating.
Whatever the objective, many brokers and investors were not entirely sympathetic with the result.
"The phrasing (of the commentary) was much too tough," said an angry broker in Shenzhen, home of one of the nation's two officially approved stock markets.
"This was over the top," he said.
The commentary called up images of Wall Street's 1929 crash while it lashed out at big investors for manipulating the market and blamed brokers for improperly extending overdrafts to finance stock purchases.
The state media also came under criticism for helping to pump up the market by urging investors to buy shares.
Last week, the bourses in Shanghai and Shenzhen in southern China slapped curbs on share movements, limiting them to a daily 10 percent in either direction.
Shenzhen's A share market for domestic investors fell the 10 percent limit on Monday, sliding 46.34 points to 417.2 while Shanghai's A share market lost 9.92 percent, or 115.37 points, to 1,047.68.
The B share indices, which track shares supposedly reserved for foreign investors, closely mirrored the A share falls.
Both Shenzhen and Shanghai had seen huge run-ups in share prices this year, with most of the gains made in recent months. Shenzhen had surged 360 percent from a trough to the peak this month, while Shanghai had climbed about 150 percent.
Some brokers were sympathetic to the plight of regulators.
"The market was clearly very speculative," said a Beijing-based broker. "I disagree with some people over how far ahead of itself the market actually was but there was bound to be a considerable pyschological impact from any action by the regulators."
Brokers said that part of the reason behind the steep rise was the lack of alternative investments.
Two interest rate cuts this year had played a key role in luring money into the stock market.
U.S. experts are striving to assure China their chicken is safe, but it is impossible to tell if poultry exported to China comes from areas hit by dangerous diseases, government and industry sources said on Monday.
Poultry is processed on such a massive scale in the United States there was no way of knowing where the birds originated, a U.S. agriculture expert told Reuters.
"So it would be impossible to identify in a shipment of meat from Arkansas which chickens came from Oklahoma or Missouri," the expert, speaking on condition of anonymity, said.
A senior U.S. diplomatic source said, however, poultry shipments could be certified as not having come from regions where quarantinable diseases were an issue.
U.S. poultry exports to China, worth around US$500 million a year, were hit by a disease scare last week when the Chinese press reported a ban on poultry from Oklahoma and Missouri.
Chinese quarantine officials confirmed the ban, linking it to a deadly poultry flu called viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease or VVND, discovered in the two states during the summer.  
A Chinese quarantine official in Beijing said he was aware of U.S. claims the disease had been confined to pet birds, but said the ban would stand.
The Chinese official contradicted U.S. sources by saying there were no plans to hold bilateral talks on the issue.
A U.S. source told Reuters he met with Chinese quarantine officials on Monday morning.
"They know it is not of real consequence," he said, adding that talks were slated to take place on this and other agricultural issues in California in late January.
The diplomatic source said banning poultry from those two states would be like banning pineapples from Beijing.
"Pineapples don't come from Beijing and chicken does not come to China from Oklahoma and Missouri," the source said.
Missouri and Oklahoma together produce less than five percent of the total U.S. poultry output, said Phillip Holloway, representative in Hong Kong and China for the Oklahoma state agriculture department.
The disease was found in parrots imported from Mexico for sale in Oklahoma pet shops, Holloway said.  
Federal U.S. veterinarians eradicated the birds and all trace of the disease, he said, adding that it had no contact with commercial flocks.
VVND kills all birds that come into contact with it, and necessitates the eradication of entire commercial flocks.
It is carried principally by psittaciformes -- parrots, parakeets, budgerigars and macaws, Holloway said.
Parrots introduced the disease into California in the 1970s, leading to the destruction of the state's entire poultry flock.
Gus Schumacher, of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Foreign Agriculture Service, said U.S. experts were working to reassure Chinese quarantine officials the disease had no effect on U.S. poultry.
"It is not at all linked to American poultry so we're reassuring the Chinese quarantine officials and working through this in an explanatory, technical way, so the trade will continue on an active basis," he said.
Schumacher, in Hong Kong last Friday, said chickens were not now being shipped to China from these two states, but trade from other areas of the U.S. had not been affected.  
However, cheap land and labour in the two rural states was attracting contract production from major producers that pay for labour and feed, and then purchase all chicks produced, the agriculture expert said.
"Most of the birds produced in these two states are shipped elsewhere for processing, like Arkansas or Mississippi...so it is generic chicken and there is no way to tell," he said.
Boeing Co.'s stunning agreement to acquire longtime rival McDonnell Douglas Corp. won a ringing endorsement from Wall Street and sent shock waves through the aerospace industry Monday.
Stock in both companies soared on expectations the deal would boost Boeing's operating profits immediately after its completion, targeted for mid-1997.
Boeing rose $4.375 to $101.125 and McDonnell Douglas jumped $10.375 to $62.375, down from earlier highs on the New York Stock Exchange but good enough to give the all-stock transaction an indicated value of nearly $14 billion.
Industry analysts saw few obstacles to the deal, which marks a startling transformation for a company that just a year ago was completing a final round of cutbacks that had slashed its work force by 30 percent in five years.
Since then Boeing has completed the $3.2 billion acquisition of Rockwell International Corp.'s  ROK.N defence and space business, won the right to compete for the richest military contract in Pentagon history and announced orders for a record $45.6 billion in new commercial jets.
"It's an incredible turnaround story," said Jon Kutler, president of Quarterdeck Investment Partners, which specialises in aerospace. "These are very bold, dramatic, uncharacteristic moves for Boeing and I applaud them for it."
While Boeing had been moving to cut costs and transform its management style under outgoing Chairman Frank Shrontz, the pace has accelerated at the once-sluggish company since Phil Condit was named chief executive officer in April.
Condit began the final round of merger negotiations with McDonnell Douglas last Tuesday, just a day after being formally elected Boeing chairman as of Feb. 1, 1997.
"We're seeing Boeing evolve from kind of a stodgy company to being very aggressive, nimble," said Bill Whitlow, a longtime Boeing analyst at Pacific Crest Securities who praised Condit's energy and stamina.
Executives at the two companies said the deal would be additive to operating profits immediately and reiterated their prediction that Boeing could achieve $1 billion in annual savings without any layoffs because of rapid growth.
Analysts said the merger was a good strategy for McDonnell Douglas, which already had announced plans to pull back from commercial aviation when it was eliminated from bidding for the Pentagon's 21st century joint strike fighter.
But Harry Stonecipher, chief executive of McDonnell Douglas, denied that the merger was born of desperation.
"This is the deal we wanted and we are very happy with it," Stonecipher told CNBC. "This is the only deal we considered."
Boeing executives told analysts they had no immediate plans to make further acquisitions, even though the combined company will generate cash flow of more than $4 billion a year on projected 1997 revenue of $48 billion.
The surprise merger immediately turned up the heat on Europe's Airbus Industrie to move ahead quickly with a restructuring plan. Without such a plan, the consortium would be unable to go ahead with a proposed super-jumbo aircraft to compete with Boeing's 747, which now is unchallenged at the profitable top end of the market, analysts said.
"Airbus Industrie and its partners must agree as soon as possible on an optimal structure that will allow Airbus Industrie to match its American competitors as a powerful, integrated European enterprise," German Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt said in a statement.
Analysts noted that Boeing had ended any chance that Airbus would partner with McDonnell on a new large jet, and some said Boeing's own plans to stretch the 747 might now be deferred.
But both Airbus and Boeing could benefit from stabilised airplane prices with the No. 3 player out of the market.
Despite some overlapping businesses, including helicopters, rockets and missiles, experts saw little possibility the deal would be stopped by the Defence Department, although the combination of the nation's only manufacturers of commercial jets could give pause to federal antitrust regulators.
"It will be interesting to see what the airlines have to say about this," said Don Baker, a former antitrust official now with the firm Baker and Miller in Washington.
"It's worth remembering that there would be just two players in the worldwide market for big planes," he said. "But maybe two is enough competition for the airlines."
On the defence side, analysts said they expected the marriage of Boeing and McDonnell to spur further consolidation, with players such as Raytheon Co. and Northrop Grumman Corp. looking for partners.
Cowen &amp; Co. analyst Cai von Rumohr said the deal gives Raytheon, which supplies missile systems, "a window of opportunity" to buy Hughes Electronics Corp..
"It's not a long-term window," he said. "It will probably last until the (Boeing-McDonnell) deal is closed."
Conseco Inc. said Monday it would buy Pioneer Financial Services Inc., a health and life insurer, for about $417 million in stock, extending its acquisition spree.
Carmel, Ind.-based Conseco will also pay $60 million to retire bank debt and pay other costs, the companies said.
For Conseco, the Pioneer acquisition -- its seventh deal announced this year alone -- is aimed at building its offerings for senior citizens.
Conseco is already among the leading providers of supplemental health insurance, retirement annuities and life insurance for consumers aged 40 and older, analysts said.
"The (aged) 65-plus consumer is a key part of the current marketplace and also a rapidly growing piece of that 40-plus marketplace," added James Rosensteele, Conseco spokesman.
The companies said the merger would create the largest distribution organisation selling health and life insurance products in the markets where it operates.
"It's an excellent match," Conseco Chairman Stephen Hilbert said in a statement.
Under the transaction, Conseco would use a fraction of a share of its common stock worth $25 to $28, depending on the price in the days before the closing, to buy Pioneer Financial stock. Pioneer debt notes would also become convertible into Conseco stock.
Pioneer Financial jumped $5.50 to $24.50 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange, while Conseco stock was up 50 cents at $60 in consolidated trading.
The transaction is subject to approval by regulators and Pioneer Financial stockholders. It should be completed within 180 days, the companies said.
For Pioneer, a health and life insurance and annuities company based in Schaumburg, Ill., its agreement to join forces with Conseco reflects continued consolidation in the industry. Pioneer markets mainly to people 65 and older, small business owners and the self-employed.
"With the consolidation that's going on in the industry, you're going to have to be a mega-company to have the greatest efficiency and the greatest value to the customer," Everen analyst Frederick Sandburg said.
That consolidation is apparent in Conseco's track record of completing 16 acquisitions involving a total of 29 insurance companies since 1982.
Conseco is one of the nation's leading providers of supplemental health insurance, retirement annuities and universal life insurance.
Rosensteele said while acquisitions continued to be a part of Conseco's strategy, roughly half of the growth of its assets has been from new business generated by companies after they have been purchased.
Conseco said it would have $29 billion of assets and $32 billion of investments under management after completion of the Pioneer acquisition and other deals.
Beyond the portfolio of policies, the Pioneer acquisition also will add to Conseco's marketing efforts, particularly to senior citizens, analysts said. Pioneer has 90,000 agents, in addition to Conseco's 90,000 independent and career agents.
Founded in 1979, fast-growing Conseco has completed several acquisitions recently. In October, it completed the purchase of American Life Holdings Inc., a provider of annuities for retirement savings plans, for $165 million in cash.
On Aug. 26, Conseco agreed to acquire American Travellers Corp., a provider of long-term care insurance, for $793 million in stock, and Capitol American Financial Corp., which markets cancer insurance and other health coverage, for $650 million in cash and stock.
Also in August, Conseco completed the acquisition of Life Partners Group, a life insurer, for $600 million in stock, a deal that was announced on March 12.
Conseco Inc's $477 million planned purchase of Pioneer Financial Services Inc, its seventh acquisition announced this year, is aimed at building the company's product offerings for senior citizens.
Conseco is already among the leading providers of supplemental health insurance, retirement annuities and life insurance for consumers aged 40 and older, analysts said.
"The (aged) 65-plus consumer is a key part of the current marketplace and also a rapidly growing piece of that 40-plus marketplace," added James Rosensteele, Conseco spokesman.  
For Pioneer, a health and life insurance company based in Schaumburg, Ill., its agreement to join forces with Conseco reflects continued consolidation in the industry.
"With the consolidation that's going on in the industry, you're going to have to be a mega-company to have the greatest efficiency and the greatest value to the customer," EVEREN analyst Frederick Sandburg said.
That consolidation is apparent in Conseco's track record of completing 16 acquisitions involving a total of 29 insurance companies since 1982.  
In the latest deal, Pioneer shareholders will receive a fraction of a Conseco share worth $25 to $28 for each Pioneer share held.
Rosensteele said earnings from Pioneer operations will more than offset the dilutive effect of the Conseco shares to be issued in the deal. Conseco said previously it expects Pioneer to add about $0.15 per fully diluted share to its operating earnings in the first year.
Pioneer shares were up 5-7/8 at 24-7/8 at mid-day on Monday, and Conseco shares were up 2-1/8 at 61-5/8.  
Rosensteele said that while acquisitions continue to be a part of Conseco's strategy, roughly half of the growth of its assets has been from new business generated by companies after they have been purchased.
Conseco said it would have $29 billion of assets and $32 billion of investments under management after completion of the Pioneer acquisition and other deals.
Beyond the portfolio of policies, the Pioneer acquisition also will add to Conseco's marketing efforts, particularly to senior citizens, analysts said.  Pioneer has 90,000 agents, in addition to Conseco's 90,000 independent and career agents.  
"It really helps them (Conseco) in distribution capability," Dean Witter analyst Michael Lewis said.
Through its Bankers Life and Casualty unit, Conseco sells to senior citizens through career insurance agents.
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
While the U.S. auto industry celebrated its 100th birthday in 1996 with higher sales and a new labor accord, it expects its 101st year to feature a flat environment and tougher competition from foreign shores.
Forecasts for 1997 project sales of total vehicles will be roughly the same as the 15.4 million seen for 1996. But that's not all that bad, industry executives say. It means the four-year upswing of car, sport/utilty and pickup truck sales could continue for yet another year.  
"We see moderate inflation. We see a steady continuation of economic expansion in the United States," Ford Motor Co Chairman Alex Trotman said recently.
"We're looking for the car and truck industry to fall somewhere in the 15 to 15.5 million range for 1997, which we would describe as a pretty good year," he said.
But clouds loom on the horizon, namely from Detroit's old nemisis -- Japan.
Japanese automakers, which have introduced hot new car and sport/utility vehicles this year, are set to unleash more new products in 1997.  
Honda Motor Co Ltd will soon introduce its CR-V compact sport/utility, and is scheduled to bring out new versions of its Accord sedan and Odyssey minivan.
Toyota Motor Corp, building on the momentum of its new Camry sedan, will unveil a front-wheel drive minivan called the Sienna next fall.
Meantime, the relatively weak value of the Japanese yen promises to give cost-conscious Big Three executives headaches. A weaker yen makes it cheaper for Japanese firms to produce vehicles in Japan and sell them in the U.S.  
Since April 1995, when the yen exchange value hit a high of 80 to the dollar, the yen has weakened. The rate is now about 114, meaning it takes more yen to buy one dollar.
Van Bussman, Chrysler Corp's top economist, sees the yen staying in the 110-115 range for the first three to six months of 1997, then strengthen to about 100 yen per dollar.
"I think it will be a substantial issue in 1997," Bussman said. "The yen having weakened from 80 to 110 has given them tremendous profit potential in North America."
Adds Ford's Trotman: "It's going to be tough next year because we have the weaker yen," Trotman said.  
General Motors Corp will try to reverse a slide in both sales and market share next year as it introduces 15 new cars and light trucks, including a new line of minivans.
GM will also look to improve overall competitiveness with a new three-year contract with the United Auto Workers that could allow it to shed 30,000 workers. But that deal did not come cheaply. GM endured several strikes through the year that will cost it more than $1.6 billion in 1996.
At Ford Motor Co, cost-cutting will remain a top priority next year.  
Ford, the U.S. No. 2 automaker, has scored big in the market place with its new F-Series pickup trucks and Expedition full-size sport/utility.
But car sales have lagged, with Ford being forced to slap incentives on its redesigned Taurus to push them out of dealer showrooms. Ford, which replaced the head of its core automotive operations in October, will also lose hundreds of millions from European and South American operations.
Increasing pressure from customers to hold down prices will keep a profit squeeze on U.S. medical device manufacturers in 1997, although the sector's biggest firms are expected to show healthy growth.
Other variables looming over the industry are the naming of a successor to departing U.S. Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler and Congress' mood on healthcare.
"Expectations are still for a positive environment from a Washington standpoint, but I don't think you can take that for granted," said Prudential Securities analyst Charlene Lu.  
After six contentious years, Kessler announced his resignation from the FDA last month. The White House has not named a replacement. "Questions like who replaces Kessler are going to have a big impact on whether new products get approved quickly," Lu said.
Congressional and White House sentiment on reforming the U.S. healthcare industry is lukewarm at the moment, but could reemerge as an issue, analysts said.
"Meanwhile, managed care marches on and that will have an impact," said Wasserstein Perella analyst Robert Dunne.  
Health maintenance organizations, hospitals and others that buy medical devices -- such as pacemakers, catheters and heart valves -- are squeezing device makers for lower prices. That has cut into profits and limited the growth potential of some companies, analysts said.
"You're going to continue to see greater and greater market pressures," Lu said.
In search of growth, many device companies are looking overseas and finding opportunity. "To grow the top line, you've got to move outside the United States," said Dain Bosworth analyst Rachael Scherer.  
Partly as a result, the sector's biggest firms -- those with global reach -- had the best 1996 and are widely expected to lead the pack again next year. Companies such as Medtronic Inc, Boston Scientific Corp and Guidant Corp are widely seen as market outperformers for 1997.
"I'm looking probably for 20 percent-plus earnings growth from them ... Those stocks will probably perform a little bit better than the market," Dunne said.  
Possibly less rosy is the general outlook for small device companies. Scherer pointed out that Nasdaq medical technology stocks severely underperformed the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Stock Index this year, while larger listed issues topped the index, mirroring a dichotomy seen in other industries, as well.
"We're optimistic that Nasdaq med tech issues will outperform next year," Scherer said.
Smaller and mid-sized firms named by analysts as potential 1997 winners were Datascope Corp, Target Therapeutics Inc, Stryker Corp, Mentor Corp, and Nellcor Puritan Bennett Inc.
On the technology front, growth was expected to continue to be strong for stents, which shore up the insides of diseased blood vessels, and implantable defibrillators, which treat too-rapid heartbeat.
Key products expected next year from industry giant Medtronic include an atrial fibrillation device, a device for continually recording electrocardiogram readouts to help diagnose unexpected fainting, a new stent and an implantable drug pump for cancer patients, Medtronic said.
((--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787))
The proposed union of Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. dramatically raises the stakes for survival in the defence industry, which already has experienced intense consolidation.
Global players, including Northrop Grumman Corp., Raytheon Co. and Hughes Electronics Corp., are expected to seek partners in a new merger cycle.
"This has broken an uneasy truce in the defence industry," said Jon Kutler, president of Quarterdeck Investment Partners Inc., which specialises in aerospace and defence.
Although the pace of defence mergers recently has slowed from the booming levels of early 1996, the Boeing-McDonnell Douglas combination is expected to trigger a resurgence of deals, industry experts said.
"This transaction establishes a level of scale that is going to urge additional consolidation. It's clearly going to drive us toward, instead of eight or 10 large firms, three or four mega-corporations," said James Schwendinger, director of consulting firm Deloitte &amp; Touche's aerospace and defence practice.
Northrop Grumman is viewed as a leading buyer of defence electronics properties. Shares of the company jumped $1.125 to $80.50 on views that the Boeing-McDonnell Douglas transaction may speed up its acquisition plans.
"All of a sudden, the scale of Northrop Grumman has been diminished by this merger," said one defence industry source who did not want to be identified.
Formed in 1994 from a union between Northrop and Grumman Corp., the company earlier this year bought the defence business owned by Westinghouse Electric Corp. for $3.6 billion in one of the biggest defence deals of 1996.
A spokesman for Northrop Grumman declined to comment on merger activites, but noted that electronics was a growing part of the company's business.
"We have clearly embarked on a strategy of transforming the company from primarily an airplane builder to electronics," said Tony Cantafio.
Meanwhile, current defence leader Lockheed Martin Corp., which early this year bought Loral Corp for $9.1 billion, is viewed as well-positioned to compete against the new and larger Boeing. Lockheed Martin said in a statement Monday that ongoing industry consolidation was vital.
"They've gone from being king of the hill to having to share it. They're in an extremely strong position," Kutler said of Lockheed Martin.
The defence sector already has seen several consolidation cycles due to declines in federal spending. But those deals are dwarfed by the latest $13.9 billion merger announced Sunday.
Industry experts bidding was expected to intensify for attractive properties, noting that reported seller Hughes Electronics was likely to benefit. Industry sources previously targeted McDonnell Douglas as a potential buyer of Hughes.
A spokesman for Hughes could not be reached for comment, but the company previously has said that it would consider acquisitions and consolidation. Hughes is a unit of General Motors Corp.
The Boeing-McDonnell Douglas combination also was expected to trigger consolidation around the globe.
"This may set the stage for a whole new set of (buyers) from Europe," said Thomas Gallagher, head of the aerospace division at CIBC Woody Gundy, who expects cross-border consolidation in Europe to intensify.
"The key dimension of defence today is scale. This business takes a huge amount of investment," Gallagher said.
Boeing Co. chief executive officer Phil Condit did not take long to leave his mark on the company.
Just one day after he was elected to become chairman of Boeing's board of directors Dec. 9, Condit began the final round of on-again, off-again negotiations that resulted in a $13.3 billion deal to acquire McDonnell Douglas Corp.
Condit, 55, an engineer who began his career with Boeing in 1965, will serve as chairman and chief executive of the merged company under the agreement, which requires approval from shareholders and federal regulators.
Condit, credited with spearheading the programme to design and build Boeing's new 777 twin-engine jet, was promoted to chief executive in April after more than three years as president under current Chairman Frank Shrontz, 65.
Condit's promotion to chairman is not even effective until Feb. 1, after Shrontz's retirement.
While Shrontz is a lawyer by training with a somewhat formal demeanor, Condit is known for his habit of changing clothes from a business suit to sweater and slacks for his frequent meetings with workers at all levels of the company.
"I'm real impressed with Phil," said Bill Whitlow, a longtime Boeing analyst at Pacific Crest Securities. "Phil's strength is he's a real communicator."
Condit shows an almost boyish enthusiasm for his work, exclaiming "Wow!" to sum up major business triumphs and declaring he is "overwhelmed" by his latest promotion -- no matter that it had been long expected.
Behind that enthusiasm is a drive to cut costs at a company once derided as the "Lazy B" and create a military and commercial aerospace giant better able to ride out the deep industry cycles that have whipsawed Boeing in the past.
"We're seeing Boeing evolve from kind of a stodgy company to being very aggressive, nimble," Whitlow said.
Over the past several years, as Boeing went through the final years of a long industry downturn, Condit was busy putting into practice the philosophy of "working together," which became a mantra for the 777 programme.
At Boeing the phrase means that engineers, contractors and factory workers, once happy to throw problems "over the wall" to the next division, work more closely than before to speed changes and improve processes.
The new philosophy and an overhaul of the company's computer equipment have allowed Boeing to cut the time between an airline order and delivery by as much as 50 percent.
The changes have hardly been accomplished easily. In addition to the layoffs that shrank Boeing's workforce by about one-third over the five years ending in 1995, the company endured a bitter 10-week strike last year by its 32,000 unionized Machinists.
Condit acknowledged last week that the company has "a long way to go" to repair relations with its workers.
Condit got his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California in Berkeley and has master's degrees in engineering and management from Princeton University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Shares in British Sky Broadcasting (BSkyB) rose strongly on Monday after the pay television operator cleared a key regulatory hurdle and amid reports it planned to push ahead and launch digital services in Britain next year.
BSkyB shares added 19p to 495-1/2p by early afternoon, reversing a downward pattern which has seen them shed almost two pounds ($3.3) since mid-October.
The rise was fuelled by an announcement from Britain's Office of Fair Trading (OFT) that it had accepted BSkyB's new terms for the supply of its channels to cable operators.
The stock had earlier been boosted by a report in the Financial Times that BSkyB, 40 percent owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, was poised to order the set-top boxes required to receive its digital satellite services.
"The news flow has been positive and some funds which are underweight in BSkyB have been taking the opportunity to buy," said Anthony de Larrinaga of broker Panmure Gordon, commenting on the price rise.
However, he injected a note of caution.
"We still have to see the performance for dish sales in the run-up to Christmas. The decision to push ahead with digital may be partly a reflection of weaker analogue sales," he added.
The OFT approved BSkyB's revised "rate card" -- setting out the pricing and structure for the supply of satellite channels to cable operators.
"The changes increase the flexibility of cable operators in marketing their services," OFT Director General John Bridgeman said in a statement.
But the cable industry criticised the decision and vowed to continue its fight. One option is to take the issue to the European Commission.
"We fail to see how today's announcement is in the consumers' interest," the Cable Communications Association said in a statement.
BSkyB, which supplies a diet of top-quality sport and Hollywood movies, has more than five million subscribers -- 3.3 million receiving the service via a satellite dish and almost 1.9 million on cable.
BSkyB's shares have fallen from highs in the last two months because of regulatory concerns in Britain and worries over the apparent slow take-up of the digital services of Germany's DF1, in which BSkyB and Kirch Group are partners.
BSkyB has announced plans to launch digital satellite services supplying some 200 channels into Britain late next year but recent reports had suggested that it could delay the launch.
But the Financial Times quoted Murdoch as saying that BSkyB will go ahead with a decoder box concentrating on new channels plus pay-per-view sport and films. A decoder offering access to interactive services such as home shopping would follow later.
"Now I think we will go with a straight simple box and have a second-generation box a year later. How many people really want to do home shopping and banking on their television sets or buy things, we don't know yet," Murdoch was quoted as saying.
($1=.6027 Pound)
Two of Britain's leading insurance brokers Lloyd Thompson Group and JIB Group said on Monday they are to merge in a deal worth 300 million pounds ($496.4 million)
Lloyd Thompson chief executive Ken Carter said the main attraction of the deal was the complementary nature of the two companies' operations and the merger will create an international firm focused on profitable, growth businesses.
"The driver is not cost savings, it's entirely the business enhancements we can get out of the two groups coming together. The cost savings will be there but they would come out in the merger of any two companies," he said.
Carter will become chief executive of the new group which is to be renamed Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc.
The deal comes at a time of increasing problems for brokers as insurance rates fall and revenues decline. Increasing competitive pressures are forcing many to contemplate deals to find a way of cutting costs and achieve economies of scale.
Only last week U.S. broking giant Aon Corp announced it was buying New York's Alexander &amp; Alexander services for $1.23 billion.
"Insurance brokers are going through very difficult times and any activity that will enhance margins has to be beneficial," said one analyst. "It's becoming quite evident that size is more and more important." Under the terms of the Lloyd's Thompson offer, JIB shareholders will receive four new Lloyd Thompson shares for every five JIB shares held. The companies said that deal was expected to be "significantly earnings enhancing" in 1998.
The merger has received the backing of Jardine Matheson Holdings which has a 60 percent stake in JIB. On completion of the merger it will have a 34 percent interest which it said, it intended to hold "for the long term".
The stock market reacted positively to the news. JIB shares rose 20-1/2p to 129-1/2p and Lloyd Thompson 1-1/2p to 174p.
The companies said they believed that the merger would bring significant strategic advantages allowing the development of new products, enhancing JIB's international operations and creating a leading international reinsurance business.
The deal would also deliver cost savings, in particular in the two London market operations' information technology and head office expenditure.
Lloyd Thompson, is currently involved predominantly in the London wholesale and reinsurance broking business. In contrast, JIB, operates in 30 countries worldwide and brings with it an international presence with the "very significant jewel in the crown" of its high quality Asia Pacific business, said Carter.
The newly merged group will be positioned between global brokers such as Britain's Sedgwick and Willis Corroon and smaller niche brokers such as Lowndes Lambert and C.E. Heath.
"We see Jardine fulfilling an essential demand from clients by being a strong international broker focussed on handling business wherever it is in the world outside the U.S. rather than looking to get a flag in every city in the world," said Carter.
Following the merger John Barton, currently chief executive of JIB will become chairman of the new group which is to be headquartered in London.
The company is to pay a special dividend of 6.0 pence per Lloyd Thompson share, subject to the merger with JIB proceeding. ($1=.6043 Pound)
Boeing Co. chief executive officer Phil Condit did not take long to leave his mark on the company.
Just one day after he was elected to become chairman of Boeing's board of directors Dec. 9, Condit began the final round of on-again, off-again negotiations that resulted in a $13.3 billion deal to acquire McDonnell Douglas Corp.
Condit, 55, an engineer who began his career with Boeing in 1965, will serve as chairman and chief executive of the merged company under the agreement, which requires approval from shareholders and federal regulators.
Condit, credited with spearheading the programme to design and build Boeing's new 777 twin-engine jet, was promoted to chief executive in April after more than three years as president under current Chairman Frank Shrontz, 65.
Condit's promotion to chairman is not even effective until Feb. 1, after Shrontz's retirement.
While Shrontz is a lawyer by training with a somewhat formal demeanor, Condit is known for his habit of changing clothes from a business suit to sweater and slacks for his frequent meetings with workers at all levels of the company.
Condit shows an almost boyish enthusiasm for his work, exclaiming "Wow!" to sum up major business triumphs and declaring he is "overwhelmed" by his latest promotion -- no matter that it had been long expected.
Behind that enthusiasm is a drive to cut costs at a company once derided as the "Lazy B" and create a military and commercial aerospace giant better able to ride out the deep industry cycles that have whipsawed Boeing in the past.
Over the past several years, as Boeing went through the final years of a long industry downturn, Condit was busy putting into practice the philosophy developed with the 777 programme of "working together."
At Boeing the phrase means that engineers, contractors and factory workers, once happy to throw problems "over the wall" to the next division, work more closely than before to speed changes and improve processes.
The new philosophy and an overhaul of the company's computer equipment have allowed Boeing to cut the time between an airline order and delivery by as much as 50 percent.
The changes have hardly been accomplished easily. In addition to the layoffs that shrank Boeing's workforce by about one-third over the five years ending in 1995, the company endured a bitter 10-week strike last year by its 32,000 unionized Machinists.
Condit acknowledged last week that the company has "a long way to go" to repair relations with its workers.
Condit got his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the University of California in Berkeley and has master's degrees in engineering and management from Princeton University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The European Airbus consortium must resolve deep differences over the future shape of the aircraft-maker to meet the challenge posed by the merger of its U.S. rivals, industry executives said on Monday.
Boeing and McDonnell Douglas shook the aerospace world on Sunday by announcing they were joining to create a company with annual sales of $48 billion.
The strengthening of Boeing, which already outpaces Airbus in sales of civilian aircraft, puts further pressure on the four-nation Airbus Industrie consortium to agree a status change that might sharpen its commercial muscle.
But the four member companies from France, Germany, Britain and Spain are stuck over differing ambitions for changing their present partnership into an integrated company that could rival the new U.S. titan.
Historically Boeing has held around 60 percent of the world civilian aircraft market, Airbus 30 percent and McDonnell Douglas 10 percent.
Airbus, which had set a target of 50 percent by the end of decade, is a partnership made up of French state-owned Ste Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, British Aerospace Plc, Daimler-Benz Aerospace, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG and Construcciones Aeronauticas SA (CASA) of Spain.
The partners said on July 8 they aimed to reach an agreement by the end of 1996 on the timetable for setting up a new Airbus company, which could be formed by 1999. But an industry source in London said a pact looked likely to slip into the new year.
"The discussions go on. The partners are still working on negotiations for the Airbus Industrie restructuring," said an Airbus spokesman, speaking from its headquarters in Toulouse, southwestern France.
"I think this will clearly introduce a massive sense of urgency," aerospace analyst Sash Tusa, at broker UBS told Reuters Financial Television (RFTV).
A senior executive said the partners have three different positions on the future Airbus. Aerospatiale wants a "minimal" Airbus, Dasa seeks a "maximum", while BAe wants a transfer of "core assets" from the partners to the new company, he said.
Aerospatiale's chairman Yves Michot said in September he wanted Airbus to act as a prime contractor with enlarged powers to direct subcontractors. Aerospatiale does not think Airbus can take on more than its current marketing operations.
"You cannot go from one thing to the next overnight. Marketing is a business in its own right. Managing factories, manufacturing, people is something else," a French industry executive said.
That pits the French firm against Dasa which wants to deepen Airbus' integration to include the design and engineering of sub-assemblies as well as making the major systems such as wings and fuselages. The "maximum Airbus" would also handle procurement, final assembly and product support.
BAe would like to transfer design and manufacturing facilities and provide Airbus with a strong balance sheet to finance aircraft sales.
But Aerospatiale would stand to lose its industrial and intellectual crown jewels if it transferred its design office and manufacturing plant in Toulouse to Airbus.
Aerospatiale gains some 70 percent of annual sales from the civilian sector, more than BAe and Dasa which have military and motor vehicle sales respectively to boost their revenue streams.
Although Aerospatiale would receive Airbus dividends, it would lose key operations --  galling for a company which set up Airbus jointly with the Germans. It is joint senior partner with Dasa with 38 percent ownership.
Stripping out Airbus would leave Aerospatiale with missiles and satellites, both of which are being eyed by the acquisitive Lagardere Groupe, and helicopters -- a business under severe pressure.
Apart from the status change, Airbus also needs to develop a fuller product range.
"We have to enlarge the product line at the upper and lower end," a Dasa spokesman told RFTV. Airbus is studying a large plane seating between 500-600, dubbed the A3XX, and is planning a 100-seater with China and Singapore.
BAe chairman Richard Evans told the Wall Street Journal on Monday that while the A3XX large aircraft was important, it needed to be a sound business decision.
"I recognise that to be successful and compete with Boeing, we in Airbus need as wide a product mix as possible but not at any price, not at the cost of busting the business," he said.
BAe owns 20 percent of Airbus, while Casa owns four percent.
General Electric Co Chairman John Welch was upbeat about GE's prospects for the current year and beyond during a private meeting with Wall Street analysts, several of those who attended said on Tuesday.
In particular, Welch told analysts he was comfortable with current Wall Street estimates for the 1996 calendar year. The First Call consensus is $4.40 per share for the year.
Salomon Brothers analyst Russell Leavit said the GE executive had said on Monday he "expected earnings to be up about 13 percent this year, in line with expectations."  
Analysts said the meeting with analysts helped propel General Electric stock on to the NYSE most actives list on Tuesday. The stock was up 1-1/8 in early afternoon trading after gaining more than two points earlier in the day.
A GE spokesman declined to comment on Welch's remarks to analysts. He said the company had gone on record in its third-quarter earnings report, released October 10, as being on track for a "record year" in 1996 in terms of earnings.
After the meeting, CS First Boston said analyst Martin Sankey reiterated his strong buy on GE and boosted his 1997 earnings estimate by a nickel to $5.00 per share.  
"They are looking for good progress next year," Leavitt said of Monday's meeting, one of the company's regular briefings with Wall Street analysts.
While litle new was disclosed at the meeting, "there seems to be a high level of conviction that progress is in place," the analyst said.
GE's leader specifically cited the company's aircraft engine and power businesses as being well-positioned for growth in the coming year, along with its NBC broadcast unit, Leavitt said.
Leavitt retained his buy rating after the meeting and left his current estimates intact. He said he expected GE to report earnings of $4.40 for 1996 and $4.95 per share for 1997, which is a penny above the First Call consensus.
"Most of the Wall Street analysts came away comfortable that the earnings estimates will be realized this year and next year," one fund manager said. "It's his usual magic with Wall Street," a reference to Welch's popularity.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
Three Canadian mining companies are caught up in a quarrel over what do with the Petaquilla copper-gold project in Panama.
Adrian Resources Ltd, a Vancouver-based exploration company, Teck Corp, a big Vancouver-based miner, and troubled Toronto-based Inmet Mining Corp are partners in the deposit.
Adrian, which controls 52 percent of the find, says that a feasibility study on the property done by Teck was "incomplete and not in compliance with existing arrangements."  
Teck had an option to acquire up to 26 percent of the development by funding a feasibility study and eventually operating and arranging to fund the mine.
But Adrian said Teck has not filled the first requirement to move forward with its option.
"They had a job to do and they didn't complete it," Doug Turnbull, a consulting geologist for Adrian, said in an interview on Tuesday.
"Our stand right now is, they do not have their option until they complete their obligations," Turnbull said.  
But Teck says there was nothing wrong with its feasibility study.
"The study was a comprehensive assessment of the project, but...the economics would make a production commitment difficult under present metal price conditions," Teck's senior vice president of mining operations, Michael Lipkewich, said in a statement.  
Teck hopes to resolve its difficulties with Adrian and work with the junior company and Inmet to continue exploration on the property in search of higher grade ore, Teck's vice-president of corporate affairs, George Stevens, said in an interview.
The ore at Petaquilla so far is low grade, he said.
"The capital costs are higher than we had both anticipated a couple of years ago," he added.
He said Teck's agreement with Adrian allows Teck to defer a production decision twice before Adrian "can make us walk."  
"Their problem is they came out with a very optimistic scoping study," Stevens said. He said Adrian had not revised its projections.
According to Adrian, the study said the property had a geological resource of 3.74 billion tonnes of ore, including 31.8 billion pounds of copper and 9.8 million ounces of gold. The study said the proven reserves came to 1.46 billion tonnes of ore containing 13.74 billion pounds of copper and 3.17 million ounces of gold.
Teck's numbers were considerably lower but the company had not done sufficient infill drilling, Adrian's Turnbull said.  
The spat has knocked Adrian's stock down from C$3.85 on Friday to C$2.07 by Tuesday on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Caught in the middle of the dispute is Inmet, which has just written off a series of mining interests and is struggling to regain investor confidence. Inmet controls 48 percent of Petaquilla.
"Under the current metal price conditions, we agree with Teck," Inmet's chief financial officer Richard Ross said in an interview.
But he said the company did not have anything to add to the dispute.
((Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100))
The Czech government on Tuesday approved the text of a long-awaited declaration on post-World War Two reconciliation with Germany, paving the way for its initialling on Friday.
The declaration, leaked to news media last week, contains mutual expressions of regret for the Nazi occupation from 1938 to 1945 and for excessive brutality during the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans from the Sudetenland region of what was then Czechoslovakia.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus told reporters after a weekly government meeting that he had been authorised to sign the text, which took two years to negotiate, without changes.
"The government has closed the debate by this text and it sees no chance, opportunity or reason to make any changes to it...Negotiation on the text has ended for us, I'm saying that unambiguously," Klaus said.
The foreign ministers of the two countries are now due to initial the text in the Czech capital on Friday. Signature by the two presidents and confirmation by the parliaments are expected early next year.
"In this declaration it is clearly stated that the will of both sides is to close the past, to close the negative chapters of our history. This declaration means a clear turn in our relations toward the future," Klaus said.
The text has angered groups representing families of the Sudeten Germans, who complained that it did not compensate for property lost during the expulsions.
Germany's Christian Social Union (CSU), the political sponsor of the expelled Germans which has in the past hinted it might use its weight in the Bonn government to block the declaration, has given qualified support to the text.
But on Tuesday the CSU government of Bavaria, home of most expellees, made a number of demands.
It said it could accept the declaration only if both Bavaria and the official Sudeten German representatives were allowed to participate in a planned fund for German-Czech projects.
And it picked up a key condition which Prague has so far rejected, saying that it expected a commitment, "no later than when the declaration is signed, that the Czech side will hold talks with the representatives of the Sudeten German community".
In the Czech parliament the mainstream parties have backed the declaration, but the extreme-right Republican Party and far-left Communists have ruled out voting for it in any form.
Members of the largest Czech opposition party, the Social Democrats, whose votes may be crucial for approval by parliament, have said they still had concerns about vague wording on compensation for victims of Nazi aggression.
The declaration sets up a Czech-German Future Fund with the German side paying in 140 million marks ($90 million) and the Czechs paying about one-seventh of that to finance "projects of common interest" including joint environmental, historical and scientific projects and youth meetings.
But the text adds: "The German side acknowledges its obligation of responsibility to all who became victims of National Socialist violence. That is why the projects, wherever appropriate, should work mainly for the benefit of the victims of National Socialist violence."
Czech Justice Minister Jan Kalvoda, a deputy premier and leader of a junior partner in the ruling coalition, quit the government and parliament on Tuesday for falsely using an academic title, the CTK news agency said.
Kalvoda, aged 43, resigned for falsely claiming he was a doctor of law amid a growing row over the academic credentials of Czech politicians after deputies began questioning whether they were all genuine.
"Yes, (Kalvoda resigned) and he delivered his resignation to the president," Mariana Cerna of the parliament's press office told Reuters.
Another member of parliament from a party in the centre-right ruling coalition also quit the house for the same reason, while three other deputies admitted using false titles but did not step down, the news agency reported.
Officials of Kalvoda's party, the Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA), were not immediately available for comment, and it was not yet clear who would take Kalvoda's place in the cabinet or what his status would be within his party.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, head of the senior Civic Democratic Party, said he would meet on Wednesday morning with Christian Democrat chairman Josef Lux and a designated member of Kalvoda's party to assess the situation in the three-party coalition.
"It's a political swerve, it's disquieting and unsettling, and the aim of all of us is that it would happen without any teetering," Klaus told reporters after Kalvoda's resignation.
ODA's press department said it would not comment until a meeting of its party leaders on Wednesday.
Kalvoda, who headed the most pro-business party in the coalition, often bumped heads with Klaus on issues such as speeding up the deregulation of heating prices and rents and lowering taxes.
Pavla Jurkova, a member of the Christian Democrats (KDU-CSL), resigned her seat in the 200-seat lower house -- where the centre-right coalition has 99 seats -- for falsely claiming a law doctorate, CTK said.
Two members of Klaus's party also admitted that their law doctorates, used in campaign material earlier this year, were false, CTK said, but Anna Roeschova and Ondrej Zemina had not resigned their seats.
Also staying put in parliament was a member of the opposition Social Democrats, Marie Noveska, after admitting she had not finished university but still used the title doctor of law.
Western oil companies frustrated by Moscow's foot-dragging on foreign investment laws presented a study Tuesday designed to convince officials that Russia will take the lion's share of rewards in oil deals.
The study, outlining the benefits from six flagship production-sharing contracts requiring $129 billion in expenditure, could be the evidence nationalist and conservative parliamentarians need to pass energy and tax laws in 1997 to get the projects off the ground.
Foreign oil firms have to date invested only a tiny fraction of that total, citing high taxes, a flawed production-sharing law and Moscow's inability to ratify a list of reserves open to output-sharing deals.
"No investments are going to happen until there's a firm legal base," said a top Western oil executive who declined to be identified, speaking after a conference where the study was presented.
The document, prepared by the Petroleum Advisory Forum, or PAF, and a group of Russian academics, said six major international projects requiring $102 billion in Western funding over 57 years would generate $591 billion in total benefits, with Russia getting 87 percent of the total.
The deals would create up to 550,000 jobs, raise real gross domestic product by $450 billion, boost state revenues by $257 billion and Russian private sector revenues by $258 billion.
The foreign side would reap $76 billion in benefits, including $40 billion in foreign investor profits.
"With the overwhelming majority of benefits accruing to Russia, these projects will make an important contribution towards Russia's future economic growth and to the stability of its emerging market economy," a study group statement said.
Russian officials have blocked passage of key energy laws, saying they want to prevent what they call a fire-sale of Russia's natural resources to the West and in effect hampering Western investment in Russia's oil sector.
"Under the current licensing regime regulating the use of subsoil resources and the current gross revenue-based tax system, large-scale investments in the Russian oil industry are not forthcoming," the statement said.
Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister Valery Garipov said the study showed the necessity of Western investment in the oil industry, but he said Russian companies would have to have at least a 50 percent stake in production-sharing deals.
"We don't need stop-gap loans -- we need long-term investments," he told the same conference.
"Domestic investments are not appearing," he said, adding that only Western-financed production-sharing contracts would reverse Russia's steep oil output decline. "There are Russian banks that bought oil companies, but where are their investments?"
The study said that for each dollar directly invested in the oil sector, an additional 90 cents in revenues would be generated in related domestic industries.
Czech Justice Minister Jan Kalvoda, a deputy premier and leader of a junior partner in the ruling coalition, quit the government and parliament on Tuesday for falsely using an academic title, the CTK news agency said.
Another member of parliament from a coalition party also quit parliament for the same reason, while three other deputies admitted using false titles but did not step down.
Kalvoda, aged 43, resigned for falsely claiming he was a Doctor of Law amid a growing row over the academic credentials of Czech politicians after deputies began questioning whether they were all genuine.
"Yes, (Kalvoda resigned) and he delivered his resignation to the president," Mariana Cerna of the parliament's press office told Reuters.
Officials of Kalvoda's party, the Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA), were not immediately available for comment, and it was not yet clear who would take Kalvoda's place in the cabinet or what his status would be within his party.
He told the house however that there would be no changes in the party, CTK reported.
ODA's press department said it would not comment until a meeting of party leaders on Wednesday.
Kalvoda, who headed the most pro-business party in the coalition, often bumped heads with Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus on issues such as speeding up the deregulation of heating prices and rents and lowering taxes.
Earlier on Tuesday, Pavla Jurkova, a member of another coalition party, the Christian Democrats (KDU-CSL), resigned her seat in the 200-seat lower house -- where the centre-right coalition has 99 seats -- for falsely claiming a law doctorate.
Meanwhile two members of Vaclav Klaus's senior party in the three-member coalition, the Civic Democratic Party (ODS), also admitted today that their law doctorates, used in campaign material earlier this year, were false, CTK said.
However Anna Roeschova and Ondrej Zemina had not resigned their seats, CTK reported.
Also staying put in parliament was a member of the opposition Social Democrats, Marie Noveska, after admitting she had not finished university but still used the title doctor of law.
The Czech government on Tuesday approved the text of a long-awaited declaration on post-World War Two reconciliation with Germany, paving the way for its initialling on Friday.
The declaration, leaked to news media last week, contains mutual expressions of regret for the Nazi occupation from 1938 to 1945 and for excessive brutality during the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans from the Sudetenland region of what was then Czechoslovakia.
Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus told reporters after a weekly government meeting that he had been authorised to sign the text, which took two years to negotiate, without changes.
"The government has closed the debate by this text and it sees no chance, opportunity or reason to make any changes to it...Negotiation on the text has ended for us, I'm saying that unambiguously," Klaus said.
The foreign ministers of the two countries are now due to initial the text in the Czech capital on Friday. Signature by the two presidents and confirmation by the parliaments are expected early next year.
"In this declaration it is clearly stated that the will of both sides is to close the past, to close the negative chapters of our history. This declaration means a clear turn in our relations toward the future," Klaus said.
The text has angered groups representing families of the Sudeten Germans, who complained that it did not compensate for lost property during the expulsions.
Germany's Christian Social Union (CSU), political sponsor of the expelled Germans, said its support for the text was not guaranteed.
Final approval from the CSU, a partner in the Bonn coalition, would depend on assurances that the Sudetens would be "involved at an appropriate level" in a dialogue between Prague and Bonn.
The Bavarian-based CSU has in the past hinted it could use its weight in the government to block the declaration or oppose the Czech Republic's application to join the European Union unless the Sudetens were given better terms.
In the Czech parliament the mainstream parties have backed the declaration, but the extreme-right Republican Party and far-left Communists have ruled out voting for it in any form.
Members of the largest Czech opposition party, the Social Democrats, whose votes may be crucial for approval by parliament, have said they still had concerns about vague wording on compensation for victims of Nazi aggression.
The declaration sets up a Czech-German Future Fund with the German side paying in 140 million marks ($90 million) and the Czechs paying about one-seventh of that to finance "projects of common interest" including joint environmental, historical and scientific projects and youth meetings.
But the text adds: "The German side acknowledges its obligation of responsibility to all who became victims of National Socialist violence. That is why the projects, wherever appropriate, should work mainly for the benefit of the victims of National Socialist violence."
At least four people were killed and scores more injured on Tuesday afternoon when a powerful bomb ripped through a building in Monteria, the main town of Colombia's northwest Cordoba province, police said.
The blast occurred at 3:15 p.m. (2015 GMT) at the headquarters of the Fondo Ganadero, a fund set up to promote cattle-ranching in the province. Police said they did not know the motive behind the attack.
The explosion came a day after a 120-pound (50-kg) car bomb went off in Medellin, killing a woman and injuring 48 people. Authorities blamed that attack on drug traffickers in league with leftist guerrillas.
Armed left and right-wing groups are waging a fierce battle in northwest Colombia where both blasts occurred.
"I cannot say yet who was responsible for this attack," provincial governor Carlos Buelvas told reporters. "Everybody must be on their guard."
He said an emergency meeting of the provincial security council, which includes the military and the police, would be called to analyse the situation.
The blast in the downtown area of the small town was the second in Monteria in the last two months. An 88 pound (40 kg) bomb, hidden in a street vendor's cart, exploded outside the town's police headquarters on Oct. 21, injuring 10 people in an attack that was blamed on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the largest guerrilla movement.
It is not clear whether Tuesday's bomb was linked to a communique issued Monday by a hitherto unknown group calling itself the Special Anti-paramilitary Commando.
The group, claiming to be made up of ex-rebels who had previously given up armed struggle, declared war on the country's burgeoning right-wing paramilitary gangs. Human rights groups accuse cattle ranchers of backing them.
Defence Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra said, however, that he believed Monday's attack in Medellin was retaliation for approval last week by Congress of a new law to strip drug lords of their billion-dollar fortunes.
Colombia's main cities, and particularly Medellin, were scarred by a drug-fuelled campaign of bombings, assassinations and kidnappings in the late 1980s when cocaine kingpin Pablo Escobar waged war on the state in a successful bid to ban the extradition of Colombians to the United States.
A powerful car bomb rocked a residential district of Medellin early on Monday, killing a woman and injuring at least 48 other people, police said.
About 120 pounds (50 kg) of dynamite packed into a minibus blew up outside the house of Juan Gomez Martinez, a regional newspaper editor, politician and former provincial governor.
The Colombian government said it suspected drug cartels were behind the massive blast. President Ernesto Samper vowed not to bow to terrorist violence from drug traffickers.
"We will not allow the specter of narco-terrorism to return to this country and intimidate us," he told reporters. "The state will combat these acts of violnce head-on."
Five unidentified gunmen, one of them a woman, opened fire on private security guards near Gomez's home before the bomb went off, Medellin police chief Gen. Alfredo Salgado said.
He said three houses were virtually destroyed and 15 others seriously damaged by the explosion.
The dead woman was identified as Lucia Cevallos de Bernal, 60, who lived near the site of the blast. Gomez was not home at the time but one of his three sons was injured.
Authorities offered a $150,000 reward for information leading to the capture of those responsible.
"This is a savage act. The first indications point to drug traffickers but I don't want to draw premature conclusions," said Defence Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra.
The attack came three days after the Colombian Congress approved a tough new law to strip Colombia's cocaine barons of their multi-billion dollar fortunes. Another bill to introduce stiffer jail terms for drug traffickers is due to come up for discussion in a special session of Congress later this week.
But it was not clear why Gomez, who is not a congressman, should have been targeted.
Gomez is a member of the opposition Conservative Party and head of the regional El Colombiano newspaper, which has its headquarters in Medellin, once home to the world's most powerful cocaine cartel.
His newspaper recently printed an interview with Carlos Castano, leader of a feared right-wing death squad, whose main target is leftist rebels and their supporters.
A few hours after the blast an unknown group calling itself the Special Anti-Paramilitary Commando issued a communique, a copy of which was obtained by Reuters, declaring war on paramilitary groups. The group claimed to be made up of ex-guerrillas who had previously laid down their arms and accused the state of sponsoring paramilitary groups.
Medellin was scarred by violence in the late 1980s and early 1990s when drug lord Pablo Escobar waged a successful war to force Colombia's Congress to ban the extradition of Colombians to the United States.
In June last year a bomb killed 28 people in the city centre. Nobody claimed responsibility for that blast.
The U.S. auto industry celebrated its 100th birthday in 1996 with higher sales and a new labour accord, but it can expect tough competition from foreign shores in the coming year.
Clouds loom on the horizon, namely from Detroit's old nemesis -- Japan.
The relatively weak Japanese yen promises to give cost-conscious Big Three executives headaches. A weaker yen makes it cheaper for Japanese firms to produce vehicles in Japan and sell them in the United States.
Since April 1995, when the yen hit a high of 80 to the dollar, the Japanese currency has weakened. The rate is now about 114, meaning it takes more yen to buy one dollar.
Van Bussman, Chrysler Corp.'s top economist, believes the yen will continue in the 110-115 range for the first three to six months of 1997, then strengthen to about 100.
"I think it will be a substantial issue in 1997," Bussman said. "The yen having weakened from 80 to 110 has given them tremendous profit potential in North America."
A look back through 1996 shows that Japanese automakers have already turned the weaker yen to their advantage through lower prices.
Industry trade publication Automotive News reported the average 1997 model year price increase at Detroit's Big Three was $386, while the average price hike for Japanese automakers was a mere $8.
"It's going to be tough next year because we have the weaker yen," Ford Motor Co. Chairman Alex Trotman said recently.
Forecasts for 1997 project total vehicle sales will be roughly the same as the 15.4 million expected for 1996. But that's not all that bad, industry executives say.
It means the four-year upswing of car, sport utilty and pickup truck sales could continue for yet another year.
"We see moderate inflation. We see a steady continuation of economic expansion in the United States," Trotman said. "We're looking for the car and truck industry to fall somewhere in the 15 to 15.5 million range for 1997, which we would describe as a pretty good year."
Japanese automakers, which have introduced hot new car and sport utility vehicles this year, are set to unleash more new products in 1997.
Honda Motor Co. Ltd. will soon introduce its CR-V compact sport utility and is scheduled to bring out new versions of its Accord sedan and Odyssey minivan. Building on the momentum of its new Camry sedan, Toyota Motor Corp. will unveil a front-wheel drive minivan called the Sienna next fall.
Among the Big Three, 1996 proved to be the year that Chrysler's raft of stylised new products took off, outshining its two domestic rivals. The No. 3 automaker has boosted U.S. market share nearly two points to 16 percent, and its calendar year sales will post their best results since 1988.
General Motors Corp. will try to reverse a slide in both sales and market share next year as it continues with the introduction of 15 new cars and light trucks, including a new line of minivans.
GM will also look to improve its overall competitiveness with a new three-year contract with the United Auto Workers that could allow it to shed 30,000 workers. But that deal did not come cheaply. GM endured several strikes through the year that will cost it more than $1.6 billion.
At Ford, cost-cutting will remain a top priority next year. The No. 2 automaker has scored big in the market place with its new F-Series pickup trucks and Expedition full-size sport utility vehicle.
But its car sales have lagged, and Ford has been forced to slap incentives on its redesigned Taurus to push them out of dealer showrooms. Ford, which replaced the head of its core automotive operations in October, will also lose hundreds of millions from European and South American operations in 1996, but sees improvements in those areas for 1997.
Carnival Corp is shopping around Europe and elsewhere for acquisitions and partners to boost the number of passengers on its cruise ships, industry analysts said on Tuesday.
The company -- the leader of the pleasure cruise market with 28 percent -- is said to be in talks to acquire Italy's Costa Crociere Spa.
Trading in Costa Corciere shares was suspended on Monday by Italian regulators until detailed information on the reported talks between the companies was revealed.  
"The Carnival people are the most natural buyers," said industry analyst Edward Tavlin of Fahnestock &amp; Co. "They are willing go worldwide."
A spokesman for Miami-based Carnival declined to comment.
Last month, Carnival Chairman Micky Arison said in a Reuters interview that he saw industry consolidation continuing and that markets outside North America warranted attention.  
Arison did not comment directly on the possibility of acquiring Costa Crociere, a relatively small and heavily indebted line, which had been in meger talks with Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.
Carnival has formed a joint venture with Hyundai Corp of South Korea to provide Asian cruises and bought a stake in British travel group Airtours Plc as part of its global expansion.
"They are trying to better exploit overseas markets," analyst Jill Krutick of Smith Barney said. "The North American market has lots of capacity and pricing pressure."  
Carnival, which runs three cruise lines, is profitable in a sector burdened with a declining customer base and the prospect of expanded capacity. The company has said it expects to post record profits for the fiscal year ended November 30.
To be sure, Carnival, founded 24 years ago, has miscalculated in overseas ventures in the past. The company two years ago shut down its start-up FiestaMarina line aimed at Latin Americans and exited a Bermuda hotel operation with substanial losses, Tavlin said.
"The overseas markets are not as developed, but they have different dynamics," Krutick said. "Each has its own features and characteristics.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013.
The stock of General Electric Co. rose in active trading Tuesday, boosted by speculation it might raise its dividend and increase its share buyback programme following upbeat comments by Chairman John Welch.
Salomon Brothers analyst Russell Leavitt said Welch told analysts who attended a private meeting with him on Monday that he "expected earnings to be up about 13 percent this year, in line with expectations."
According to First Call, which monitors Wall Street analysts' earnings projections, GE's profits for the 1996 calendar year are expected to equal $4.40 per share.
In 1995, GE earned profits of $3.90 per share, or $6.6 billion, on revenues of $43 billion.
Analysts said news from the meeting helped propel General Electric's stock onto the NYSE most actives list. The stock was up $2.25 to $97.50 in late afternoon trading after earlier climbing as much as $3.25.
A GE spokesman declined to comment on Welch's remarks to analysts. He said the company had gone on record in its third-quarter earnings report, released Oct. 10, as being on track for a "record year" in 1996.
The spokesman confirmed, however, that GE's board would meet on Friday.
After the meeting, CS First Boston said analyst Martin Sankey reiterated his strong buy recommendation on GE's stock and boosted his 1997 earnings estimate 5 cents to $5 per share.
"They are looking for good progress next year," Leavitt said, adding that while little new was disclosed at the twice-yearly briefing, "There seems to be a high level of conviction that progress is in place."
Welch specifically cited a turnaround in the company's power businesses and strong growth in its NBC broadcasting unit, Leavitt said.
"You've got everything pretty much clicking in the company," said NatWest Securites analyst Nicholas Heyman, who also attended the meeting. He said Welch spoke of 13 percent earnings growth for both the current year and for 1997.
More good news could come as early as Friday, when GE's board of directors is scheduled to meet.
At that meeting, several analysts said they believed the board will authorise a two-for-one split of GE shares and increase its authorisation to buy back the company's shares to $13 billion from its current level of $9 billion.
Company share buybacks increase the value of remaining shares by decreasing the number of shares outstanding, a move looked on with favour by investors, since the underlying value of each share held increases.
In addition, NatWest's Heyman said he expected the board to boost the stock's annual dividend by 13 percent to $2.08 from its current level of $1.84 per share.
Since early 1995, General Electric's stock has proven one of Wall Street's best perfomers, more than doubling in value.
"Most of the Wall Street analysts came away comfortable that the earnings estimates will be realised this year and next year," one fund manager said of the meeting with Welch. "It's his usual magic with Wall Street."
French state-owned aerospace group Aerospatiale, in the throes of merger talks, faces key questions on its strategic operations as Europe's aircraft industry gears up for competition with a new U.S. giant.
Aerospatiale is due to merge with combat plane maker Dassault Aviation as part of France's consolidation of its fragmented defence industry.
It is also fighting what executives see as a rearguard action to preserve its hold on building passenger jets for Airbus Industrie, in which it is a senior partner.
"France and Europe have no choice but to restructure," Jean-Marc Baron, aerospace specialist at consultancy KPMG Peat Marwick, said. "The Boeing-McDonnell Douglas merger is excellent because it confronts the Europeans with reality."
Sunday's surprise merger announcement by U.S. giant Boeing and McDonnell Douglas put the spotlight on speeding up European consolidation and a shakeup of the Airbus structure, in which Aerospatiale is expected to play a key role.
Airbus partners British Aerospace Plc (BAe) and Daimler-Benz Aerospace AG (Dasa) are pushing for a version of a future Airbus which could effectively take commercial aircraft production out of Aerospatiale's hands.
The Airbus shareholders, which also include Construcciones Aeronauticas SA of Spain (Casa), are negotiating the future shape of the Airbus group as part of a move to convert it to a joint stock company from a cumbersome partnership structure.
If, as the British and Germans want, the partners transfer key design and manufacturing assets to Airbus, Aerospatiale would be left with an uncertain future in missiles, satellites, helicopters and combat aircraft after taking over Dassault, a senior industry executive said.
"Aerospatiale wants to accelerate the merger with Dassault to give it more weight vis-a-vis Dasa in Airbus," Baron said.
Aerospatiale derives 70 percent of annual sales from the civilian sector, of which half comes from Airbus products, an Aerospatiale spokeswoman said.
Airbus contributed a 1995 operating profit of 1.06 billion francs ($203 million) to Aerospatiale and that figure is sure to rise for this year with Airbus deliveries at 111 at the end of November. Airbus delivered 102 planes in 1995.
Although Aerospatiale, which had 1995 turnover of 49.23 billion francs, would absorb Dassault in the merger, chairman Serge Dassault has said he wants to keep its identity distinct.
Dassault, smaller than Aerospatiale with 1995 sales of 11.6 billion francs, has consistently made profits and cultivates its own strong corporate culture as maker of the Mirage combat plane and Falcon small business jet.
The merged company would have annual turnover of around 60 billion francs and is expected to have a common purchasing centre. Purchasing makes up around 60 percent of turnover so if it made annual savings of around five percent, it could benefit to the tune of one to two billion francs a year.
The Aerospatiale spokeswoman said merger terms had not yet been agreed.
Aerospatiale wants Airbus eventually to have a military wing, similar to U.S. giants such as Lockheed Martin and Boeing and McDonnell Douglas, a source close to the company said.
The U.S. giants have defence businesses to balance out the business cycles and receive state research contracts for military projects which are viewed as indirect industry aid.
After merging with Dassault and breaking even, Aerospatiale can be privatised. This is expected to be a sale of capital to industrial partners rather than a stock market flotation, because of the strategic nature of Aerospatiale's business.
But so far, no timetable or partners have emerged.
On missiles and satellites, Aerospatiale executives are frustrated that they have been unable to close a deal to merge these activities with Dasa, despite years of negotiations.
The two activities, grouped under a space and defence heading, contributed 412 million francs operating profit in 1995, after a loss of 32 million in 1994.
Meanwhile, it feels the French conglomerate Lagardere Groupe breathing down its neck. Lagardere recently completed a merger of its Matra missiles unit with BAe to create the Matra BAe Dynamics joint venture, with annual sales of $1.5 billion.
Lagardere argues that by virtue of its British merger it should be the focus for the next consolidation between France and Germany in missiles, while its Matra Marconi Space satellites joint venture with Britain's GEC Plc should be the centre of a European space business.
Aerospatiale also has a Eurocopter joint venture with Dasa, which makes military and civilian helicopters. Eurocopter made an operating loss of 817 million francs last year, after a 45 million loss in the previous year.
Eurocopter faces a difficult medium-term outlook with an orders gap after the next two years until first deliveries in 2002 of the Tiger combat helicopter to the French army.
Aerospatiale made its first surplus since 1991 with a first-half 1996 net profit of 273 million francs and expects to break even in 1997 if the dollar stays at five francs.
It made a 1995 net attributable loss of 981 million, due to a 1.5 billion restructuring charge to cover 3,000 job losses. ($1=5.224 French Franc)
Wembley, England's home of soccer since the 1920s, will be the site of a new national stadium, the country's Sports Council announced on Tuesday.
The government-backed Council selected the north London venue ahead of the northern city of Manchester as the preferred location. Some 120 million pounds ($200 million) in National Lottery funding will be supplied to help turn the famous old stadium into a world class sports facility for the 21st century.
Wembley and Manchester were selected as the two leading candidates from five applicants last year. Sports Council chairman Sir Rodney Walker said that Wembley won out as it had greater potential to attract major international events.
The Sports Council has supported the English Football Association's bid to host soccer's World Cup in 2006 and the British Athletics Federation's attempts to attract the world championships in 2001.
But Manchester did not lose out completely as the Sports Council announced it had agreed in principle to provide up to 60 million pounds towards a new Stadium of the North to be used to host the Commonwealth Games in 2002, which have already been awarded to the city.
It said it would also consider backing Manchester council's bid for 20 million pound in funding for a new swimming and diving complex in the city, another Games facility.
"The Sports Council has agreed a 200 million package of financial support which will provide further opportunities for English and British sport to develop as a leading competitor on the world stage," Walker said.
A competition is to be held to select an architectural firm to design the English National Stadium at the site owned by Wembley Plc.
Architect Sir Norman Foster has already unveiled his radical plans for an 80,000-seater stadium.
In his design, Wembley's famous twin towers would be repositioned to form a new gateway to the stadium area. The stadium would also be spun round 90 degrees with a new North/South axis.
The Foster design also includes plans for retractable seating to allow spectators at field events like soccer and rugby league close proximity to the action. The seats would be moved back when track events were being held. ($1=.6027 Pound)
Western oil firms frustrated by Moscow's foot-dragging on foreign investment laws presented a study on Tuesday designed to convince conservative officials that Russia will take the lion's share of rewards in oil deals.
The study, outlining the benefits from six flagship production-sharing contracts requiring $129 billion in expenditure, could be the evidence nationalist and conservative parliamentarians need to pass energy and tax laws in 1997 to get the projects off the ground.
Foreign oil firms have to date invested only a tiny fraction of that total, citing high taxes, a flawed production-sharing law and Moscow's inability to ratify a list of reserves open to output-sharing deals.
"No investments are going to happen until there's a firm legal base," said a top Western oil executive who declined to be named, speaking after a conference where the study was presented.
The document, prepared by the Petroleum Advisory Forum, or PAF, and a group of Russian academics, said six major international projects requiring $102 billion in Western funding over 57 years would generate $591 billion in total benefits, with Russia getting 87 percent of the total.
The deals would at peak create 550,000 jobs, raise real gross domestic product by $450 billion, boost state revenues by $257 billion and Russian private sector revenues by $258 billion.
The foreign side would reap $76 billion in benefits, including $40 billion in foreign investor profits.
"With the overwhelming majority of benefits accruing to Russia, these projects will make an important contribution towards Russia's future economic growth and to the stability of its emerging market economy," a study group statement said.
Conservative Russian officials have blocked passage of key energy laws, saying they want to prevent what they call a fire-sale of Russia's natural resources to the West and in effect hampering Western investment in Russia's oil sector.
"Under the current licensing regime regulating the use of subsoil resources and the current gross revenue-based tax system, large-scale investments in the Russian oil industry are not forthcoming," the statement said.
Deputy Fuel and Energy Minister Valery Garipov said the study showed the necessity of Western investment in the oil industry, but he said Russian firms would have to have at least a 50 percent stake in production-sharing deals.
"We don't need stop-gap loans -- we need long-term investments," he told the same conference.
"Domestic investments are not appearing," he said, adding that only Western-financed production-sharing contracts would reverse Russia's steep oil output decline. "There are Russian banks that bought oil companies, but where are their investments?"
The study said that for each dollar directly invested in the oil sector, an additional $0.90 in revenues would be generated in related domestic industries.
Referring to the study, PAF director Ed Verona said, "It's a tool to show that this (foreign investment) produces benefits."
Alexei Mikhailov, a parliamentarian and supporter of Western oil firms, said the six Western-sponsored projects -- Sakhalin I and II, Priobskoye, West Salym, Timan-Pechora and Yuzhnoye Khylchuyu -- could eventually account for two percent of GDP.
Mikhailov said he hoped parliamentarians would pass the revised reserves list and Western-friendly amendments to the production-sharing law in the first half of 1997.
"It is not enough just to provide financing and funds," said Dan Westbrook, senior vice-president of Amoco Eurasia Petroleum Company, the partner in Priobskoye. "The point is, the projects must be economical for anyone (Western or Russian) to do the work."
China's crackdown on stock markets this week is partly fuelled by fears in Beijing that the volatility of the exchanges could lead to social instability, analysts said on Tuesday.
They said the move was also aimed at avoiding disruption caused by foreign and domestic speculators planning to pump money into the markets up to the mid-1997 handover of Hong Kong from London to Beijing and then pull it out again.
"In a transitional period when the ailing leader Deng Xiaoping is gradually moving out of polical arena, social stability is the primary concern of the leadership," said one executive with a Chinese brokerage.
"Stock boom and bust cycles do not fit in with the aim of social stability," he added.
A Shenzhen-based broker said there had been many rumours that the surges on the Shenzhen market were supported by overseas funds from Hong Kong and Macau.
"Some rumours said that foreign funds wanted to push up the Chinese markets before the (Hong Kong) takeover and depress them afterwards," the broker said.
The People's Daily newspaper, mouthpiece of the Communist Party, said in a harshly-worded commentary on Monday that China's stock markets had overheated on widespread speculation. It warned that if the markets crashed, the government would not step in to support them.
In anticipation of the response to the commentary, the stock exchanges last Friday evening introduced a 10 percent limit on movements of prices for individual shares.
On Monday and again on Tuesday, most shares on both the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges plunged to the 10 percent limit-down level.
Shanghai's domestic A share index lost 100.964 points or 9.64 percent to 946.716 points after falling 9.92 percent on Monday. The B share index shed 1.431 points or 2.39 percent to 58.498 points.
In Shenzhen, the A index plummeted 9.99 percent to 375.51 points while the B index dived 9.51 percent, to 121.64 points.
Most shares hit the daily limit-down of 10 percent shortly after the opening, as on Monday, and stayed there for the whole session, brokers said.
Since April, both domestic and foreign currency share prices on the two markets have surged on average by well over 100 percent.
"The central government has chosen the right time," said one political analyst. "There are still a few months to go before the Hong Kong takeover and stock prices had not surged so far that falls would push investors out on to the streets (to demonstrate)."
Some stock traders said that by talking down the markets, Beijing had effectively prevented heavy fresh liquidity flowing in.
"The inflow of hot money (speculative funds) has been cut off with retail investors frightened away and institutions taking heed of the warning," one trader said.
"It seems now that the markets will be stable around the date of the Hong Kong takeover," he added. "Prices are expected to move little after the impact of the crackdown is gradually digested."
China's crackdown on the stock markets this week is partly fuelled by fears in Beijing that the incredible volatility of the exchanges could lead to social instability, analysts said on Tuesday.
They said the move was also aimed at avoiding disruption caused by foreign and domestic speculators who had planned to pump money into the markets up to the mid-1997 handover of Hong Kong to Beijing, then pull their funds out again.
"In a transitional period when the ailing leader Deng Xiaoping is gradually moving out of political arena, social stability is the primary concern of the leadership," said one executive with a Chinese brokerage.
"Stock boom and bust cycles do not fit in with the aim of social stability," he added.
A Shenzhen-based broker said there had been many rumours that the surges on the Shenzhen market were supported by overseas funds from Hong Kong and Macau.
"Some rumours said that foreign funds wanted to push up the Chinese markets before the (Hong Kong) takeover and depress them afterwards," the broker said.
The official People's Daily said in a harshly worded commentary on Monday that China's stock markets had overheated on widespread speculation. It warned that if the markets crashed, the government would not step in to support them.
In anticipation of the response to the commentary, the stock exchanges last Friday evening introduced a 10 percent limit on movements of prices for individual shares.
On Monday and again on Tuesday, most shares on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges plunged to the 10 percent limit-down level.
Since April, both domestic and foreign currency share prices on the two markets had surged on average by well over 100 percent.
"The central government has chosen the right time," said one political analyst. "There are still a few months to go before the Hong Kong takeover and stock prices had not surged so far that falls would push investors out on to the streets (to demonstrate)."
Some stock traders said that, by talking down the markets, Beijing had effectively prevented heavy fresh liquidity to flow into the markets.
"The inflow of hot money (speculative funds) has been cut off with retail investors frightened away and institutions taking heed of the warning," one trader said.
"It seems now that the markets will be 'stable' around the date of the Hong Kong takeover," he added. "Prices are expected to move little after the impact of the crackdown is gradually digested."
On Tuesday, a spokesman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission was quoted by local media as saying that the crackdown was aimed at protecting retail investors and that Beijing would continue to develop the markets.
"Our government has always insisted on the principle of steady development of the securities markets on the basis of their standardisation," he was quoted as saying.
"We do not care what kind of development the central government chooses," said one investor. "But periodic policy changes reflected in official statements really make us frustrated."
The strong surge in prices on China's two stock exchanges since April had been largely fuelled by expressions of support for the share markets from Beijing.
Britain's Prince Andrew has arrived in Hong Kong to inspect his troops in one of the last royal visits to the territory before its return to Chinese rule in the middle of next year.
During the three-day visit the Duke of York will watch jungle training and border patrols by soldiers of the 1st battalion of the Staffordshire regiment, of which he is Colonel-In-Chief.
Prince Andrew made a low-key entry to Hong Kong on Monday night and was entertained at Government House by Governor Chris Patten and his wife Lavender, officials said.
"It was a quiet supper," said one official. "This is a low-key visit. He will spend most of his time with the One Staffords," an official said. "It's quite likely his last visit here before China takes over."
The prince, who fought in the 1982 Falklands War, will visit Hong Kong battle positions from World War Two, when the colony was occupied for four years by Japanese troops.
He will visit Hong Kong's military base on Stonecutters Island, the scene this year of many a tearful military farewell as the British steadily withdraw their armed forces ahead of 1997.
The garrison will be scaled down from almost 3,000 now to about 1,500 six weeks before the handover. All remaining troops are then to be pulled out by the time Britain hands over to China at midnight on June 30.
Andrew was to attend a cermony at which the colours of the Dragon Company of the Hong Kong Military Service Corps will be handed over to the Staffordshires, who will adopt the dragons as their nickname, a military officer said.
The dragons corps of Chinese servicemen, Britain's only Hong Kong Chinese army unit, lowered its ensign for the last time at a disbandment ceremony last Saturday.
The Staffordshires are one of two battalions that will be stationed in Hong Kong in the final months of British rule.
From July 1, China's People's Liberation Army will take over the garrison with a force of up to 10,000 troops, matching the British at their former peak of troop strength.
Andrew is expected on Wednesday to visit construction sites related to the territory's mammoth new airport now being built at Chek Lap Kok on the outlying Lantau Island, officials said.
He will see the huge Tsing Ma suspension bridge linking Lantau and the mainland part of Hong Kong with an expressway and railway corridor to the airport, they said.
Hong Kong is the last outpost in Asia of the formerly globe-girdling British Empire. The handover next year weighs heavily on the hearts of British patriots, colonials and fans of the royals who sadly regard the event as the sunset of British power and prestige.
Andrew's visit is likely to be one of the last by a member of the royal family before Queen Elizabeth's realm loses the bustling capitalist enclave of 6.3 million people to China.
Princess Anne is expected to visit for a ceremonial opening next month of Britain's Consulate-General building, which will be London's official mission in Hong Kong after the handover.
Although not official yet, it is an open secret that Britain wants heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles to preside over the last farewell on handover night and to sail away with Patten on the royal yacht Brittania after the furling of the Union Jack.
Shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa was to fly to Beijing on Tuesday to be anointed by China's communist leadership as Hong Kong's first Chinese leader when Britain pulls out in mid-1997.
Tung was to head for the Chinese capital in the afternoon after addressing Hong Kong's business community in his first major speech since he was selected as the territory's future chief executive last Wednesday.
In Beijing, he will have his first face-to-face meeting with China's President Jiang Zemin and Premier Li Peng since formally launching his bid for Hong Kong's leadership mantle two months ago.
It was Jiang who signalled in January this year that Tung was Beijing's favourite for the job when he singled out the tycoon for a warm, personal handshake at a reception in Beijing.
Britain is returning its last major colony to its former and future masters in Beijing at midnight next June 30, after a century and a half of colonial rule that turned it into one of Asia's economic marvels with a population of 6.3 million people.
One of Tung's first tasks in the twilight of British rule will be to cobble together an advisory cabinet called the Executive Council and to decide which senior mandarins to keep.
He has said he will start this task after his China visit, reinforcing speculation in Hong Kong that China will call the shots from behind the scenes on the make-up of the future government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
"If he waits before deciding on his team, there will be lingering doubts as to whether he was acting on instructions received from Beijing," the South China Morning Post said in its main editorial on Tuesday.
On Monday, the colonial government said it would set limits on how much it would help Tung to form a government-in-waiting before the transfer of sovereignty.
Constitutional Affairs Secretary Nicholas Ng told the Legislative Council that the government ruled out a mass exodus of senior officials to the government-in-waiting because it would undermine the stability and efficiency of the present administration.
The colonial administration is supposed to cooperate with the incoming government under the handover agreement.
But the transition has been fraught with disputes over issues ranging from human rights and democracy to infrastructure projects, darkening prospects for serious cooperation.
Many senior civil servants, including Chief Secretary Anson Chan, who is Governor Chris Patten's deputy, and Financial Secretary Donald Tsang, stayed away from a business dinner party attended by Tung on Monday night, though they had been invited.
Officials said Chan and Tsang had scheduling conflicts but political analysts said it might have been a sign that the administration's top two civil servants would not keep their jobs.
The 400-member, Beijing-controlled Selection Committee that selected Tung last week is now preparing for the next milestone in the march to Chinese rule -- the selection on Saturday of a 60-member, pro-China "provisional legislature" with which China plans to replace the existing, elected legislature on July 1.
Patten again condemned the new legislature in an interview with the French newspaper Liberation on Monday, saying he would never cooperate with it.
"This echo chamber has no place in the political or administrative life of Hong Kong," he said.
Volkswagen AG's Czech unit Skoda Automobilova a.s. launched its first up-market post-Communist model on Sunday, the "Octavia" sedan, with a street party in Prague's Old Town Square.
The new model, built on a common VW platform designed for the 1998 Audi A3 and upgraded Golf, burst through a wall onto a stage in the centre of Prague's old marketplace where thousands of Czechs and foreign tourists had gathered.
The Octavia will get its international test at the Paris International Auto Show in October and should be delivered to Czech dealers in November, followed by launches on European and other foreign markets, company officials said.
Skoda is hoping to build on the success of its Felicia economy five-door hatchback by offering an affordable middle-range sedan and take back chunks of its home market lost to Czechs seeking a more western-looking status symbol.
The front-grilled new Skoda is 4.51 metres long, 1.73 metres wide, and stands 1.43 metres high.
Continuing the break from the boxy Communist-era Skodas, the Octavia has more modern but conservative lines, somewhere between a Ford Mondeo and Audi's A-line.
As with the Felicia, Skoda's larger offering will try to find its niche at the low end of the price scale in its class.
The Czech daily Mlada Fronta Dnes quoted Skoda's general director Ludvik Kalma as saying that suggestions of a 350,000 Czech crowns ($13,460) price tag for the basic model of the Octavia on its home market -- with a 1.6 litre engine and two airbags -- would be "too expensive".
Skoda plans to produce some 5,000 Octavias before the end of this year, and between 70,000 and 80,000 in 1997 at its purpose-built modern plant at Mlada Boleslav, north of Prague.
After VW took 70 percent of Skoda under the Czech government's 1992 privatisation plan, it introduced the Felicia in late 1994 which has sold well and put to rest jokes about the former communist brand's poor quality.
Skoda plans to make a total of 251,000 cars -- including the Octavia -- this year after 208,279 Felicias in 1995.
The company lost 1.621 billion crown last year due to heavy investments into the new factory, but company officials have said the firm should come close to breaking even this year.
Blue chip technology stocks charged ahead Wednesday in a new buying spree spurred on by optimism about holiday PC sales and year-end book-squaring by money managers, traders and market analysts said.
Market participants said the rally was spurred by positive comments from a Soundview analyst about Compaq Computer Corp, and waning fears that the holiday sales season would prove a failure for consumer personal-computer makers.
The enthusiasm swept up other PC makers such as Dell Computer Corp and spilled over to other top technology names.  
By late afternoon, Compaq had added 6-1/2 points on the day to 78-3/4 while International Business Machines Corp gained 6-1/8 to 157-3/4.
Leading Nasdaq's most actives was Intel Corp, which swelled 5-3/8 to 135-3/8, Dell, up 3-5/8 to 57 and Microsoft Corp, which gained 2-3/4 to 82-5/8.
"It looks like they're going after the group again," said one trader, pointing in particular to Compaq, Intel and IBM.
"They are just buying the techs in a dramatic way again," agreed another trader. "The PC scare isn't what they thought it would be," he said.  
"It's a group move, if you look at other names, like Compaq up six, Intel up 5-1/8, Dell up 4-1/8," said Peter Jenkins, director of global equity trading at Scudder Stevens &amp; Clark, listing some of the most active names.
"We're coming to the end of the year," he said, "and these are big (institutional) holdings."
"IBM and Intel I think have sold here over last couple of weeks, and whatever had to be done has been done," he argued, laying the groundwork for institutional buyers to add to their holdings.
"All (these) stocks are in a year-end window-dressing rally," said Philip Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management, who concurred that several of these stocks had been oversold in the past two weeks.
"IBM is the one all the money managers want in their portfolios," Orlando said, referring to the desire to put the best face on their end-of-year report cards by which investors judge the relative performances of funds.
Earlier, Soundview PC analyst Mark Specker upgraded his short-term rating on Compaq to buy from hold and retained his long-term buy position on the stock.
-- Wall Street bureau, 212-859-1736
A reporter's call to the new director's secretary at a major Czech industrial company went something like this:
Journalist: "Could you please tell me Mr. Novak's first name."
Secretary (with no hesitation): "Doctor."
Czechs are obsessed with academic titles.
It was Justice Minister Jan Kalvoda's use of an unattained "Doctor of Law" which forced him to resign from cabinet on Tuesday in a shocking mea culpa on the floor of parliament.
"In this society having a title plays such a role -- whether or not you have a degree," Jiri Pehe, the head of research at Prague's Open Media Research Institute, said.
Normal discussions in many offices begin with colleagues addressing each other as "Mr. Engineer" -- a title of mid-level academic specialisation -- or "Mr. Doctor", held by many Czechs from physicians to lawyers to PhD'd journalists.
Kalvoda was once a practicing lawyer who did complete law school but did not finish the certification process required to become a doctor of law. His colleagues and his party began using the title in literature, and he never refuted it.
His resignation came on top of the confessions of four other deputies in the lower house of parliament who also used the unauthorised "JUDr" moniker in campaign material and biographies.
Apart from Kalvoda, only one resigned from parliament, the three others so far have refused.
"I suspect that there may be a few more deputies or government officials in some positions who are claiming to have degrees which they in fact do not have," said Pehe, a PhD who did not insist on the use of "Dr." for this story.
The Czech prime minister, a highly-educated economist, has the full academic title -- Professor Engineer Vaclav Klaus CSc (Candidate of Science, a former regional variation of PhD) -- but he does not inisist on its use by others.
Some of title-envy stems from four decades of communism which ended with 1989's bloodless "Velvet Revolution" led by a band of intellectuals and the dissident playwright Vaclav Havel.
Communist leaders insisted on an educated population, at least quantitatively, and even implemented programmes producing fast-brewed PhD's and engineers at colleges.
Kalvoda's resignation inspired commentaries on the subject of academic titles in Wednesday newspapers.
The daily Mlada Fronta Dnes quoted an unnamed cabinet member as saying the only minister safe from title-fixing accusations was Interior Minister Jan Ruml - a former dissident who the communists would never allow to attend college.
The daily Lidove Noviny used the Kalvoda incident to pay tribute to Havel, who became the country's president after the 1989 revolution.
Havel, as a dissident, was forced by the communists to work in manual jobs and never was allowed to study for a formal degree. He now has a truckload of honorary doctorates from universities worldwide.
"He made himself a name, not a title," Lidove Noviny wrote.
The Czech coalition government on Wednesday looked to recover from the resignation of Justice Minister Jan Kalvoda, a deputy premier who joined four other politicians in admitting they used phoney academic titles.
A cabinet aide said on Wednesday that Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus and key members of the tenous three-party coalition government were waiting for Kalvoda's party to meet later on Wednesday before serious talks on his replacement can begin.
Kalvoda, leader of the Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA) a junior coalition partner, resigned his cabinet and parliament seat on Tuesday, in a speech which caught everybody off guard.
He rose to tell the house that he "wasn't happy to be the next episode of a soap opera, but the title Juris Doctor does not belong to me". Then he quit.
Kalvoda joined four more members of parliament who have admitted to using "Doctor of Law" falsely, as accusations spilled on to the floor of the chamber in a country where academic titles are more often used than first names.
Leaders of ODA, a party with four seats in the 16-member government, were to meet on Wednesday evening to consider who to nominate in Kalvoda's place, a decision which rests with the party according to the agreement which set up the cabinet.
They are expected to discuss whether Kalvoda will remain as head of the strongly pro-business ODA, which he helped establish ahead of general elections in 1992.
A member of parliament from the coalition partner Christian Democrats, resigned for the same reason on Tuesday.
But two members of Klaus's senior Civic Democratic Party, and a member of the opposition Social Democrats have said they will not step down after similar confessions.
Political analysts said that Kalvoda's confession was damaging, but Klaus's tenous government -- which lost its parliamentary majority in June elections -- can survive in tact if the ODA can agree on who can lead the party in the cabinet.
However, two factions within the ODA -- one associated with Industry and Trade Minister Vladimir Dlouhy, and anothter with minister at large Pavel Bratinka -- are likely to fight for control of the party.
"If they (ODA) does not have a good candidate quickly, the government could do some reshuffling," Jiri Pehe, director of research at Prague Open Media Research Institute, told Reuters.
The danger to the government's stability would be if the coalition agreement, pounded out after a month of tense negotiations following the June elections, is reopened.
Klaus told journalists that Kalvoda's resignation was "a political swerve, it's disquieting and unsettling" but that the government would aim to take it in stride.
The foreign exchange market, wary of any instability within the tenous centre-right cabinet reacted sharply and the crown was volatile throughout morning trading.
The usually stable currency fell 50 basis points against the Czech National Bank's mark/dollar basket before recovering when the central bank fixed the crown at 2.32 percent above parity with the basket, down from +2.75 percent on Tuesday.
By mid-day it had recovered to +2.50 above the basket.
Kamil Janacek, chief economist at the largest Czech Bank Komercni Banka, said he did not think Kalvoda's resignation would damage the government.
"The stability of the government does not depend on Mr. Kalvoda. What happened has nothing to do with the ministry itself, it's a personal thing for Mr. Kalvoda," Janacek said.
Pehe said that more phoney-title confessions might still add to the growing drama in parliament.
"In this society it plays such a role -- whether or not you have (an advanced) degree -- I suspect that there may be a few more deputies or government officials in some positions who are claiming to have degrees which they in fact do not," he said.
The British government on Wednesday published proposed new laws governing home lenders which watered down the building societies' immunity from takeover if they converted into banks.
The new legislation provoked a cool response from some home lenders and prompted one leading player to say its plans for conversion may well have been different if it had known what the government was planning.
Under the new draft law, a building society  would forfeit its five-year immunity from takeover after it converted to bank status if it took over another financial institution.
The Woolwich, which has assets of just under 30 billion pounds ($50 billion) and plans to float next July, said it was disappointed the government had not taken account of its "serious concerns" on the timing of the draft.
"Had our board known when it took the decision to convert that this (change in the law) was even a possibility, then we might have chosen to convert in a different way," a spokeswoman for the Woolwich said.
The Treasury acknowledged the new Building Societies Bill might not even make it to the statute book before an election because of a lack of parliamentary time between now and next May, the last date for the polls to be called.
If it went ahead, the Woolwich spokeswoman said the board would have a duty to revisit its conversion plans.
The Alliance &amp; Leicester in a statement also expressed disappointment, and said areas of concern "have still not been fully resolved."
"We will now need to move forward while carefully considering outstanding issues," the Alliance statement said, noting the move came in the middle of "a long and costly conversion process".
In contrast the Northern Rock, a third society which plans a flotation in 1997, welcomed the changes.
"We are delighted with it," said Adam Applegarth, a director of the Northern Rock. "It's a prefectly reasonable compromise and you can't ask for more than that."
A Treasury spokeswoman said it still hoped to find time for the bill in the Parliamentary agenda in the New Year.
"The societies converting to banks will go ahead if that is what their members want," said Treasury Minister Angela Knight in a statement. "When converted they will be allowed to establish themselves. But if they want to play the takeover game then they will have to play by the same rules as everyone else."
The Building Societies Association welcomed the revised Bill and encouraged its early introduction to Parliament.
BSA chairman Brian Davis, who is also chief executive of the Nationwide Building Society that is not planning to convert, said the BSA fully supported the Treasury's "thoughtful compromise" on the question of takeover protection.
Under current company law, 10 percent of shareholders can call a special general meeting of the company and this will not change for converting societies. But any proposal to waive its five-year immunity to takeover will have to be approved by 75 percent of the voting shareholders.
Some societies had criticised the Treasury's proposals because they did not allow friendly takeovers, such as between one large society and a local smaller one.
"We came to the conclusion that the distinction between friendly and hostile takeovers was too difficult to define and that it would have been unworkable," the Treasury said.
The Halifax, the country's biggest home lender has already waived its right to takeover protection by transferring its business to an existing subsidiary. ($1=.6003 Pound)
The British government on Wednesday published new draft legislation governing home lending institutions but a lack of parliamentary time might mean it will not reach the statute book before a general election.
The Building Societies Bill, if passed, would remove a society's five-year immunity from takeover once it converts to bank status if it, in turn, took over another financial institution.
Immunity would not be affected by one of the new banks buying mortgage books or by joint ventures, however.
The draft received a mixed reception from the four societies currently planning to convert themselves into banks.
A Treasury spokeswoman admitted that there was currently no slot for the bill in the Parliamentary agenda but added it remained hopeful an opportunity could arise in the New Year.
"The societies converting to banks will go ahead if that is what their members want," said Treasury Minister Angela Knight in a statement. "When converted they will be allowed to establish themselves. But if they want to play the takeover game then they will have to play by the same rules as everyone else."
The Woolwich, which has assets of just under 30 billion pounds ($49.97 billion) and plans to float next July, said it was disappointed the government has not taken into account its "serious concerns" on the timing of the draft.
"Had our board known when it took the decision to convert that this (change in the law) was even a possibility, then we might have chosen to convert in a different way," a spokeswoman for the Woolwich said.
If the bill was enacted, she said the Woolwich board would have a duty to revisit its conversion plans.
In contrast the Northern Rock, also planning a flotation in 1997, welcomed the changes.
"We are delighted with it," said Adam Applegarth, a director of the Northern Rock. "It's a prefectly reasonable compromise and you cant ask for more than that."
The Building Societies Association also welcomed the revised Bill and encouraged its early introduction to Parliament.
BSA chairman Brian Davis, who is also chief executive of the Nationwide Building Society that is not planning to convert, said the BSA fully supported the Treasury's "thoughtful compromise" on the question of takeover protection.
Under current company law, 10 percent of shareholders can call a special general meeting of the company and this will not change for converting societies. But any proposal to waive its five-year immunity to takeover will have to be approved by 75 percent of the voting shareholders.
Some societies had criticised the Treasury's proposals because they did not allow friendly takeovers, such as between one large society and a local smaller one.
"We came to the conclusion that the distinction between friendly and hostile takeovers was too difficult to define and that it would have been unworkable," the Treasury said.
The Halifax, the country's biggest home lender has already waived its right to takeover protection by transferring its business to an existing subsidiary.
The mutually-owned building societies have traditionally been the largest mortgage lenders in Britain although in recent years, commercial banks have taken some market share. ($1=.6003 Pound)
The Indonesian gold bug is nibbling away at Inco Ltd, the world's biggest nickel company.
The company whose name has become synonymous with nickel is turning its sights to gold, copper and zinc exploration in Indonesia, Africa, Canada's Far North, Turkey and Brazil.
"Our target exploration area is Indonesia," Bob Horn, Inco's vice-president of exploration, said in a recent interview.
"We've reassessed what we're doing, we've refocused on our work," he said.  
"When we got rid of TVX, it was sold at a substantial profit...It was not a strategic move to get out of gold. It was a strategic move to get out of that particular company," Horn said.
"There's nothing wrong with gold. If it makes money, we'll be there."
Inco does not have any plans to go head-to-head with the world's huge gold producers, however.
"They always pay too much, but if we come across a situation where we find gold, we'll go for it, like we have in Indonesia," Horn said.  
The company has budgeted US$24.8 million for field exploration in 1997, slightly less than the US$25 million in 1996. But three recent alliances mean up to an extra US$15 million will be devoted to exploration through the junior partners, Horn said.
In addition to its alliance with Colony Pacific, Inco also has an arrangement with Carlin Resources Corp to explore in Africa, and a third deal in the works.
The company has just about all the nickel it needs with continued exploration in Canada at the huge and expanding Voisey's Bay deposit in remote Labrador as well as growing mines in Thomson, Manitoba and Sudbury, Ontario.
Instead, Inco hopes to grow through an exploration focus on copper, zinc and gold, Horn said.
In 1995, Inco did not produce any zinc, but it produced 240 million pounds of copper, 3.775 million pounds of cobalt, 60,000 troy ounces of gold and 403 million pounds of nickel.  
"We already market copper, so it's no big deal to us," said Horn. "And the technology for zinc is pretty well the same. We don't have to develop any new expertise to get into zinc."
But gold?
Inco got rid of most of its gold in 1993, when it sold its controlling interest in TVX Gold Inc. Gold production since then has been minimal.
Inco kept many of its gold experts on staff, however, and Horn said the company has all the expertise it needs to mine gold.  
Analysts said Inco is wise to use its solid status and its 28-year history in Indonesia to explore the vast mineral potential there.
Inco, which has a huge nickel operation in Indonesia, has several exploration projects there and recently struck deals with Highlands Gold Ltd and Canadian explorer Colony Pacific Explorations Ltd to step up its search for gold and copper.
Alliances with smaller companies will be key to Inco's exploration in the future, Horn said.
Ivory Coast's coffee industry faces more Caistab market reforms and fresh uncertainties over its returns in 1997, exporters and analysts said.
"The Caistab has a battle on its hands to keep farmers interested while meeting obligations to liberalise the sector to meet (World Bank) loan conditions," said one analyst. "There could be a lot of changes in store and not all of them welcome."
Ivory Coast slashed its reference farmgate price to 500 CFA per kilo from 700 CFA and opened its 1996/97 marketing season late on November 14.
Prices were set high in 1995/96 to encourage rehabilitation of plantations, but world prices slid to levels well below prices guaranteed by the Caistab.
The World Bank fears a repeat in the coming year. It wants a rapid end to cross-subsidies to the coffee sector from cocoa earnings and is waiting for new Caistab chief Yves-Marie Koissy to unveil plans early in 1997.
One export bank risk manager doubted whether all subsidies to the coffee sector would be paid this year.
Some exporters project coffee output to exceed the 230,000 tonnes forecast by Caistab, which could mean higher-than-budgeted subsidies.
"We are not funding (exporters) until we are sure the Caistab will keep its word," the risk manager said. "It (Caistab) has funds but export margins are already non-existent."
Industry opinion is split on what action the World Bank should take when British consultant Landell Mills (LMC) presents its ideas for market liberalisation in January.
Ivory Coast no longer guarantees a set coffee price to farmers, using instead to a guideline minimum price.
"Internal prices have been liberalised but it is still not clear if you would be jailed for paying below that level. The law is not clear," said a buyer. "What is clear is the government exerts a quasi-monopoly on external marketing by its allocation of export contracts and export licences."
"We have nothing to fear if quality checks are kept in place along with some back-seat stabilisation functions," said one.
Thin up-country buying this month has seen merchants paying farmers less than the reference price. Farmers were being paid only 300 to 340 CFA per kilo, one crop analyst said.
One large coffee processor operating in Ivory Coast said it was now paying 40 CFA above the reference price for premium quality coffee, even though other buyers paid less.
"We are for a completely free market with quality checks," said a manager.
Exporters said they were generally satisfied with trading via a new electronic auction system introduced in May to make dealings more transparent. Cocoa traders using a similar system have complained about contract sizes and excessive bidding to win contracts.
Exporters expect no changes to the 1996/97 list of coffee marketing prices issued by Caistab in November.
The Czech Republic's tenuous coalition government sought on Wednesday to repair the damage caused by the shock departure of Justice Minister Jan Kalvoda, who quit after admitting using a phoney academic title.
A cabinet aide said Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus and key members of the three-party coalition government were waiting for Kalvoda's party to meet later in the day before serious talks on his replacement could begin.
President Vaclav Havel asked Kalvoda, leader of the Civic Democratic Alliance (ODA) a junior coalition partner, to reconsider his decision to quit.
Kalvoda, a deputy premier, resigned his cabinet posts and parliamentary seat on Tuesday in a speech which caught everybody off guard.
He quit after telling parliament that he "wasn't happy to be the next episode of a soap opera, but the title Juris Doctor does not belong to me."
He later explained his decision to Havel, who is recuperating in a Prague clinic from lung surgery on a cancerous tumour.
"The president, not being bound constitutionally by any deadline, called on Jan Kalvoda to think about his intended step for several more days," said a statement issued by the president's office after the meeting.
It said Klaus gave the president a request for Kalvoda's dismissal, as protokol requires, and added that Havel would consider it further. Kalvoda was not available for comment.
As accusations spilled across the floor of parliament, four other members had previously admitted to using "Doctor of Law" falsely in a country where academic titles are more often used than first names.
Leaders of the ODA, which has four ministers in the 16-member cabinet, were to meet later to consider who to nominate in Kalvoda's place, a decision which rests with the party according to an agreement which set up the government.
They were also expected to discuss whether Kalvoda should remain as chairman of the strongly pro-business party, which he helped to set up ahead of general elections in 1992.
Political analysts said Kalvoda's confession was damaging but the government, which lost its parliamentary majority in June elections, could survive entact if the ODA agreed speedily on who should lead it in the cabinet.
Two factions within the ODA, one associated with Industry and Trade Minister Vladimir Dlouhy and the other with minister at large Pavel Bratinka, were likely to fight for control of the party.
"If the ODA does not have a good candidate quickly, the government could do some reshuffling," Jiri Pehe, director of research at Prague Open Media Research Institute, told Reuters.
The government's stability could be endangered if the coalition agreement, pounded out in a month of tense negotiations following the June elections, was reopened.
Klaus told reporters on Tuesday that Kalvoda's resignation was disquieting and unsettling and "a political swerve" but the government would aim to take it in its stride.
The foreign exchange market, wary of any instability, reacted sharply and the Czech crown was volatile throughout morning trading.
The usually stable currency fell 50 basis points against the Czech National Bank's mark/dollar basket before recovering when the central bank fixed it at 2.32 percent above parity and then returned to Tuesday's levels later in the day.
Russia's diamond industry, bogged down by structural chaos and unauthorised exports, cast a shadow over world gem markets on Wednesday by saying that prospects for a trade deal with De Beers by 1997 looked grim.
But a senior spokesman for Russia's diamond company Almazy Rossii-Sakha, or ARS, which is De Beers' negotiating partner and Russia's near-monopoly producer, said Moscow would eventually negotiate a deal and quitting the cartel was not an option.
De Beers, frustrated over Moscow's lack of response on a new trade deal and irritated by gem exports outside an interim scheme, gave Russia until the end of 1996 to sign a trade deal and said it would otherwise terminate the interim arrangement.
ARS spokesman Valentin Logunov, asked if the government would meet the deadline, said, "You should ask the government, especially the finance minister. This is his question --- and it's hard to say whether he'll find time."
Russia is a key player in the world diamond trade, supplying De Beers with about 20 percent of its total rough gem sales. De Beers accounts for 75 percent of global rough diamond sales.
But the two sides have gone through 1996 with no formal trade agreement and have functioned via a February memorandum which De Beers said Russia had violated with secret gem exports.
"We have been extremely patient and have respected Russia's current interests," Raymond Clark, general director of De Beers' Moscow representation, told a news conference.
"Moreover we would have probably continued (with the interim deal) had the contract been respected," he said, citing what he called "major leakages" of Russian gems onto world markets.
He declined to say how large the leaks were, adding, "We only know that the total of the leaks is substantial."
Logunov slammed the assertion, which is widely supported by international diamond traders.
"Let De Beers figure it out themselves -- if they can't say concretely where they're from, how do they know it's happening?
"Of course this alarming and of course we want an agreement signed. Therefore, De Beers should not push worried colleagues into a corner."
He said the Sakha republic -- where ARS is based and which has its own draft trade deal with De Beers -- had been buying up to one-fourth of ARS output, last year valued at $1.38 billion, over the past couple of years.
Clark said he did not know where the leaks were coming from but said De Beers was frustrated with the government's lack of response to a draft trade agreement presented in October.
"From that date, we have been continually knocking on their door to get some kind of response," he said. "We have had not one official statement made from the government."
Finance Minister Alexander Livshits told Russian news agencies on Tuesday that Moscow wanted to rework the agreement before signing it.
Logunov said it was ARS's task to guide the October draft deal through the government.
"We are doing this, maybe not as actively as we should -- but not because we are not interested in the agreement, but because of the situation on the territory where several processes are taking place."
He was referring to presidential elections set for December 24 in Sakha, which is also known as Yakutia.
"There are a lot of opponents to the company that have the right to sell diamonds, and this of course doesn't make things easier for De Beers," Logunov said.
But he said: "These two companies cannot part -- otherwise, it's chaos. There would be no rules to the game."
A reporter's call to the new director's secretary at a major Czech industrial company went something like this:
Journalist: "Could you please tell me Mr Novak's first name?"
Secretary, with no hesitation: "Doctor."
Czechs are obsessed with academic titles. It was Justice Minister Jan Kalvoda's use of an unattained "Doctor of Law" which forced him to resign from the cabinet on Tuesday in a confession on the floor of parliament.
"In this society having a title plays such a role -- whether or not you have a degree," said Jiri Pehe, the head of research at Prague's Open Media Research Institute.
Normal discussions in many offices begin with colleagues addressing each other as "Mr Engineer" -- a title of mid-level academic specialisation -- or "Mr Doctor", held by many Czechs from physicians to lawyers and PhD-holding journalists.
Kalvoda was once a practicing lawyer who did complete law school but did not finish the certification process required to become a doctor of law. His colleagues and his party began using the title in literature, and he never refuted it.
His resignation came on top of the confessions of four other deputies in the lower house of parliament who also used the unauthorised moniker, indicated by initials JUDr, in campaign material and biographies.
Apart from Kalvoda, only one has resigned from parliament, three others refusing to do so.
"I suspect that there may be a few more deputies or government officials in some positions who are claiming to have degrees which they in fact do not have," said Pehe, a PhD who did not insist on the use of "Dr" for this story.
The Czech prime minister, a highly-educated economist, has the full academic title of Professor Engineer Vaclav Klaus CSc (Candidate of Science, a former regional variation of PhD), but he does not inisist on its use by others.
Some of the title-envy stems from four decades of communism, which ended with 1989's bloodless "Velvet Revolution" led by a band of intellectuals and the dissident playwright Vaclav Havel.
Communist leaders insisted on an educated population, at least quantitatively, and even implemented programmes producing fast-brewed PhD's and engineers at colleges.
Kalvoda's resignation inspired commentaries on the subject of academic titles in Wednesday newspapers.
The daily Mlada Fronta Dnes quoted an unnamed cabinet member as saying the only minister safe from title-fixing accusations was Interior Minister Jan Ruml -- a former dissident who the communists would never allow to attend college.
The daily Lidove Noviny used the Kalvoda incident to pay tribute to Havel, who became the country's president after the 1989 revolution.
Havel, as a dissident, was forced by the communists to work in manual jobs and was never allowed to study for a formal degree. He now has a truckload of honorary doctorates from universities worldwide.
"He made himself a name, not a title," Lidove Noviny wrote.
Russia is finding the return of competitive Iraqi oil to world markets a bitter pill to swallow, but may use the occasion to revamp further its own marketing strategies to compete better, energy analysts said on Wednesday.
Russian Urals sour crude is similar in quality and composition to Iraq's Kirkuk blend and was Iraq's main competitor in the Mediterranean before Gulf War sanctions shut Baghdad out of the market.
"If I was a Russian and had a lot of crude to sell, I'd think about pricing competitively," said Sarah Anderson of Energy Security Analysis Inc in Washington.
"When you talk to Med refiners, they say they have a long history of buying Iraqi crude."
Sour Urals differentials in the Mediterranean -- pressured this week by the first Iraqi exports in six years -- have already begun to tumble.
"In an environment where Russian oil producers were really only making profits on the (world) price rise since July, Russian gains could be effectively wiped with the appearance of Iraqi oil," said Gavin Rankin, research head at Troika-Dialog.
Three Russian oil companies have signed contracts with Iraq to buy 1.3 million tonnes of Iraqi oil and are awaiting U.N. approval.
All three firms -- Zarubezhneft, NK LUKoil and Nafta-Moskva -- declined to discuss how they would market the Iraqi barrels.
Some analysts saw more than Russia's Soviet-era political associations with Baghdad and higher world prices behind the Russians' interest in signing the contracts.
"One of the reasons the Russians were keen to get involved was to get some transparent pricing for their own oil," said analyst James Bunch of Renaissance Capital.
Urals, a medium-gravity sour oil with a 1.4 percent sulphur content, comprises the bulk of Russia's exports into the Mediterranean.
Analysts said the renewed competition as Baghdad seeks to recapture customers it lost to Russia and other producing countries could spur changes in the way Russia sells oil abroad.
"Their marketing strategies have changed in recent years -- it's no longer a free-for-all," said Peter Houlder, managing director of CentreInvest Group consultancy in Moscow.
"Increasingly companies are setting up their own marketing divisions in a bid to cut out the middle man and make more money" - a trend he said Iraqi competition could fuel further.
Stephen O'Sullivan, associate oil and gas director at MC Securities in London, said producers might seek to move more oil out of the Baltics than out of Russia's Black Sea outlet of Novorossiisk to avoid price pressures from Iraqi supplies.
Russia exports about one third of its 6.2 million barrels per day output, with a third of the total leaving Novorossiisk, mostly for Mediterranean markets.
One analyst said Russian oil companies' marketing outfits abroad had already become "surprisingly sophisticated".
"They are very aggressive -- but I don't think they're making Shell nervous that they have these great trading operations."
Under the U.N. deal Iraq can export $2 billion of its oil over six months to pay for food and medicine after six years of crippling international sanctions following its invasion of Kuwait.
The strictly-monitored scheme allows Baghdad to export only from the Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan and Mina al-Bakr through U.N.-approved contracts.
Four people were killed and at least 33 injured on Tuesday when a powerful bomb ripped through a building in Monteria, the main town of Colombia's northwest Cordoba province, police said.
The blast occurred in the afternoon at the headquarters of the Fondo Ganadero, a fund set up to promote cattle-ranching in the province. Police chief Col. Gabriel Carrero blamed the attack on leftist guerrillas.
The explosion came a day after a 120 pound (50 kg) car bomb went off in Medellin, killing a woman and injuring 48 people. Authorities blamed that attack on drug traffickers in league with leftist guerrillas.
Marxist rebels and right-wing paramilitary groups have been waging a fierce battle for years in northwest Colombia where both blasts occurred.
"Nobody has officially claimed responsibility for this (latest) attack but we know it is the work of subversives, terrorists and vandals," Monteria police chief Carrero said.
The blast in the downtown area of the small provincial town was the second explosion Monteria has suffered in the last two months. An 88 pound (40 kg) bomb, hidden in a street vendor's cart, exploded outside the town's police headquarters on Oct. 21, injuring 10 people in an attack that was  blamed on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the country's largest guerrilla movement.
It is not yet clear whether Tuesday's bomb may be linked to a communique issued on Monday by a hitherto unknown group calling itself the Special Anti-paramilitary Commando.
The group, claiming to be made up of ex-rebels who had previously given up the armed struggle, declared war on the country's burgeoning paramilitary gangs. Human rights groups accuse cattle ranchers of backing the paramilitaries.
Defence Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra said he believed Monday's attack in Medellin was in retaliation for approval last week by Congress of a new law to strip drug lords of their illict billion-dollar fortunes.
Colombia's major cities, and particularly Medellin, was scarred by a drug-fuelled campaign of bombings, assassinations and kidnappings in the late 1980s as the late cocaine kingpin Pablo Escobar waged war on the state in a successful bid to force Congress to ban the extradition of Colombians to the United States.
A former Colombian rebel leader who masterminded a 61-day takeover of an embassy in Bogota in 1980 on Wednesday urged Peruvian guerrillas holding hostages in the Japanese embassy residence in Lima to keep cool.
Rosemberg Pavon, alias "Comandante Uno" of the now defunct M-19 group, urged the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA) gunmen to avoid bloodshed.
He said the crisis in Lima, where MRTA guerrillas took up to 490 hostages in the residence on Tuesday evening, hung by a thread and one false move by the rebels or security forces could spark a bloodbath.
Pavon headed an occupation of the Dominican embassy in Bogota which began in February 1980. A 15-strong commando of the M-19 held 57 hostages, including 19 diplomats, for 61 days before mediation by Cuban leader Fidel Castro ended the crisis and the guerrillas took refuge in Cuba.
"These situations are moments of high tension, great uncertainty and intense panic. The MRTA must try to keep as calm as possible," Pavon told Reuters in a telephone interview from the southwestern city of Cali.
"At any second there could be a tragedy because the whole rebel operation hangs by a thread between success and failure," he said. "Both sides must work towards a rapid solution and keep a cold head in any negotiations."
Pavon said that the MRTA, like the M-19 which laid down its arms in 1990, was fighting for social justice.
"We shouldn't fall into the trap of generalizing the MRTA as a pro-Cuban force. Like us it is fighting for a Latin American process of democracy," Pavon said.
He said he would be ready to travel to Peru to help negotiate an end to the crisis based on his experiences of 1980.
"I would say to the Peruvians that these situations can only be resolved with patience and with the desire for dialogue," he said in a separate interview with Colombia's Caracol radio.
In 1985, M-19 guerrillas seized the Palace of Justice in Bogota and held more than 200 hostages for two days before the army stormed the building. About 100 people were killed, including rebels and judges.
"The Peruvian government must at all costs avoid any repeat of a Palace of Justice scenario. The Colombian people have still not recovered from the scars of that incident," he said.
China announced a major reform of its huge agricultural system on Wednesday, saying it would take the ambitious step of unifying the price the state pays for grain with the market rate to boost output next year.
In a speech outlining some of Beijing's plans for reform in 1997 to drag China's economy away from Stalinist-style central planning and toward stronger market forces, Politburo member Li Tieying cited reform of lumbering state enterprises and agriculture as two primary objectives.
China would unify the grain purchasing price with market prices next year, Li, the minister in charge of the State Commission for Restructuring the Economy, told a national conference on reform in the southern city of Shenzhen.
The system of cotton purchasing would also be reformed.
He gave no more details of how prices would be unified, but the move appeared to herald the effective liberalisation of grain prices.
Since paramount leader Deng Xiaoping launched economic reform in 1978, Beijing's communist leaders have tried -- and failed -- to free grain prices, falling foul of fears that spiralling prices would make food unaffordable for many of China's 1.2 billion people and spark social unrest.
China's central authorities still buy a certain amount of grain from farmers at set prices below the market rates to ensure ample stores in state granaries.
With a record harvest of 480 million tonnes forecast for this year and with market prices falling closer to the state level, analysts said the time was ripe to unify the system.
Officials said last week grain supply was expected to exceed demand in 1997, with planting and weather conditions indicating a good summer crop next year.
Officials have said difficulties in selling grain would sap farmers' incentive to plant, placing in jeopardy China's ability to feed itself without resorting to huge imports.
Li said the state would separate national grain reserves from regional ones and would divide the responsibilities of the central government from local governments, but gave no details.
Next year the government would also separate losses incurred by state grain enterprises in 1996 from those expected next year and thereafter, he said. He did not give further details.
This year China raised by 20 percent the purchase price it pays to farmers for their grain after holding down increases in 1995 because soaring prices the year before had helped to push inflation to a communist-era high.
Li did not say whether the government would also take the opportunity to force urban consumers to pay market prices for grain, thus extricating state coffers from the burden of huge subsidies when plentiful supplies could curb price rises.
On state enterprises, Li said China would reorganise assets of ailing factories and establish a new system of supervision, while pushing social security and housing reforms.
In 1997, the number of pilot cities chosen for experimental reform of capital structure of state firms would be increased to 100 from 58, Li said. Enterprise groups selected as pilots of reform would almost double to 100 from 57.
The number of key enterprises linked with a sponsoring bank, and thus given easier access to loans during a continuing credit squeeze, would rise to 500 from 300, he added.
More than 45 percent of China's 68,800 state industrial firms registered losses in January-September, a rise of 17.6 percent from the same period last year, latest figures show.
The combined deficit of loss-making state firms hit 65.12 billion yuan ($7.8 billion) in the first nine months of this year, a rise of 45.7 percent from a year ago.
Taiwan's call for a "Greater China" joint-venture bank on Wednesday was greeted with caution in Hong Kong, where analysts and businessmen said more details were needed to convince the industry of its feasibility.
"It's a good idea. There's certainly a good deal of cross-border trade through Hong Kong," said Carmel Wellso, regional banking analyst with ING-Barings.
"But most large corporations would probably have established relationships with existing banks," he added. "What value is this new company going to have?"
A leading Taiwan business leader said on Wednesday in Taipei that Taiwan, China and Hong Kong business heavyweights were considering forming a joint-venture bank in Hong Kong to promote commercial links across the Taiwan Strait.
"We have proposed the idea to our Hong Kong and mainland Chinese counterparts to jointly set up a bank in Hong Kong," Hsu Sheng-fa, chairman of Taiwan's Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was quoted by an aide as saying.
While most people in Hong Kong contacted by Reuters acknowledged the political significance behind the idea, they said business and profit were what mattered.  
"This idea is very grandiose...but in business, the priority is making money because we have to put in investments," said a Hong Kong-based businessmen with strong links to Taiwan.
"Mainland Chinese banks have many restrictions, what will this bank deal in?"
Taiwan's Hsu made the proposal in a meeting with visiting business delegations from Hong Kong and the communist mainland, Taiwan's arch-rival since a civil war split them in 1949.
The Hong Kong and China entrepreneurs were in Taipei for an unofficial economic forum, the first large-scale cross-strait contact since the Taiwan government's November announcement of a freeze on cooperative initiatives with China.
Taiwan has banned direct contact -- including banking communications -- with China since the civil war. Contacts must be conducted through a third region, usually Hong Kong.
Despite the ban and a 17-month-old deadlock in unofficial Taiwan-China talks, some 30,000 Taiwan-funded businesses have poured more than US$20 billion into investments in China since relations began to thaw in the late 1980s.
Hong Kong, a British colony for more than 150 years, will revert to Chinese control at midnight next June 30.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441
The contest for power in Hong Kong heated up at the weekend as the pro-China lobby cast a top judge into the race as the candidate to lead the territory after sovereignty reverts from Britain to China in 1997.
Controversial Chief Justice Sir Ti Liang Yang re-emerged as a rival to existing favourites after influential pro-Beijing publisher Xu Shimin said he would nominate him and that the judge was keen to take up the challenge.
Hong Kong, the last significant outpost of the British empire, reverts to China on July 1, ending a century and a half of colonial rule.
China is setting up a 400-member panel called the Selection Committee, which will nominate the first post-colonial governor, to be known as the Chief Executive, and appoint a provisional legislature to replace the present elected Legislative Council.
Nominations in the month-long process to create the committee close in two weeks' time, and almost 20,000 nomination forms have been requested and issued.
China has ruled out a universal democratic vote by Hong Kong's people to pick their post-handover political leaders.
The committee is expected to pick the chief executive around November.
Yang's return to the contest comes as a surprise after he faded from the picture last year in a row about his remarks on human rights.
Lawyers and pro-democracy politicians attacked him last November after he said the Bill of Rights, which was introduced in Hong Kong by the colonial administration and which China plans to dilute next year, had sown chaos in the judiciary.
The 67-year-old China-born lawyer left his home to study law in London after the Communists took power. He later settled in Hong Kong, where he has worked for 30 years in the judiciary.
A poll last week showed the public's hot favourite for post-colonial leader is Anson Chan, the colony's Chief Secretary and deputy to British-appointed Governor Chris Patten. She scored a stunning 60.1 percent of respondents' support.
Runner-up in the poll was shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa with 10.4 percent, and the leader of the biggest political party, the Democratic Party's Martin Lee, came third with 10 percent.
But China has kept Lee and his Democrats out of the handover stakes and he has scant chance of being nominated.
Chan is also unlikely to be accepted by the committee because she is closely identified with Britain. Last week a top Chinese official attacked Britain's chief diplomat in Hong Kong for touting London's favoured candidate -- presumed to be Chan.
The poll showed Yang would come into the picture if neither Chan nor Lee were candidates. In that case Yang would get 9.8 percent, but Tung would rise to 21.6 percent.
However, the Selection Commitee is what will count, not public opinion, and China has insisted the nomination list remain secret, arousing suspicions of foul play.
Xu said Yang was happy to be proposed by him and that the judge's independence was a strong factor.
"A judge has no business connections, and there are many against Mr Tung because of his business background," Xu said.
Tsang Yok-sing, a senior member of the panel overseeing the entire handover process for China, said Yang was "unbiased and neutral".
Political analyst Chris Yeung said the latest move showed Beijing seemed undecided who it wanted in charge in Hong Kong.
"Sir Ti Liang, a judge not known for his business links, might not be the perfect choice, but he might yet win out as a compromise figure," Yeung wrote in the South China Morning Post.
The chief justice was out of town on Sunday and unavailable to comment.
The Stone Group, a Chinese high technology company, plans to inject assets into its Stone Electronic unit to boost trading in the Hong Kong-listed firm, a top group official said.
The asset injections could begin next year as the Hong Kong company recovers from its steep slide in profits in 1995, president Duan Yongji told Reuters.
"We want to expand our float," Duan said in an interview late on Tuesday.
"We don't have enough stock on the market. Many investors say 'you are not big enough'," he said, adding that more shares would be sold once the assets were injected into the listed vehicle.
The plan requires a sharp reduction in the price-to-earnings ratio of the company's stock -- now at about 23 -- to about 10.
Duan said a sharp rise in earnings expected this year and in 1997 would help to set the stage for the plan.
The Beijing-based Stone Group Corp listed shares in 1993 with a HK$300 million ($38 million) flotation for Stone Electronic Technology Ltd.
The group still has a controlling 57 percent stake in the Hong Kong company, which makes integrated word processors and printers and distributes a wide range of products, including computers as well as office and lighting equipment.
Stone Group now has 18 joint ventures and it plans to start placing some of those assets into the listed firm.
"We are preparing to inject some of the profitable companies into that vehicle," Duan said.
Stone Group probably will inject a large part of its 40 percent stake in a $60 million China-based joint venture with Matsushita of Japan to produce light fixtures. The plant has required heavy start-up costs but should be profitable next year, Duan said.
Stone Group also has a stake in a $1.6 billion semiconductor project with Mitsubishi Electric and Mitsui in China, although that will not begin production until late 1997 or early 1998.
Stone, one of the success stories of China's electronics industry, was started with a loan of 20,000 yuan ($2,400) in 1984.
"We used to compete with just the little guys," said Duan.
"That has changed dramatically in recent years," he said, adding that all major multi-nationals were now in the domestic market as China has relaxed its once-tight curbs on imports.
"Technology is also changing rapidly so we have to make use of our capital," the executive said. "We can't let it stand still."
Stone Electronic's profits slumped to HK$17 million in 1995 from HK$63.88 million in 1994. But earnings for the first half of this year were up 44 percent over the year-ago period to HK$10.22 million.
"I can't give a profit figure for all of this year but the full year growth will be better than first-half growth," Duan said, adding that 1997 should continue that trend.
Stone sees specialised electronic products for the banking system and tax collection as areas where it has major advantages over its competitors.
The parent company has also diversified into finance, setting up securities and futures trading operations and investing in a bank. Income from financial operations already has exceeded the company's electronics business. ($1= 8.3 yuan) ($1= 7.8 Hong Kong dollars)
Western Resources Inc. Wednesday offered to buy the rest of ADT Ltd. for $3.5 billion in cash and stock in a deal that would transform the Kansas utility into the nation's top provider of electronic security services.
The move marks the latest step in Western's aggressive strategy to dominate the highly fragmented security industry, which has grown increasingly attractive to utilities and telecommunications companies.
Topeka, Kan.-based Western Resources, which already owns 27 percent of ADT, said it would take its unsolicited bid for the rest of ADT directly to that company's shareholders. It also said it would call a special meeting of shareholders to replace the existing ADT board of directors.
"We have demonstrated our belief in ADT's future through our investment. The benefits of this transaction are compelling, offering a natural extension of our respective businesses," Western Resources Chairman John Hayes said in a statement.
Hayes advised ADT of the offer in a letter in which he noted that ADT previously said it was not interested in a transaction with Western Resources.
"We firmly believe that this combination will provide significant benefits to our respective shareowners, customers and employees not available to either company on its own," Hayes wrote to ADT Chairman Michael Ashcroft.
Western said it would pay $22.50 for each share of ADT, consisting of $15 in Western Resources common stock and $7.50 cash. The offer would give ADT holders a 12 percent premium over Tuesday's closing stock price of $20.125 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Industry experts said the bid was deliberately low and merely reflected an opening salvo in a hostile transaction.
"The price is a low-ball price. There is a very good chance this deal will be done at a higher price," said Andrew Jeffrey, analyst at Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
ADT shares climbed $3.125 to close at $23.25 on the New York Stock Exchange on views that a transaction will take place at a higher price. Western Resources' stock rose 12.5 cents to close at $31.375, also on NYSE.
"I feel this stock will go to $25 to $30 on earnings in 1997. Anything below that range is not acceptable," said Rosario Ilacqua of Rothschild Inc.
Boca Raton, Fla.-based ADT said it would review the offer and advised shareholders to await a recommendation from its board.
Long considered a leader in the electronic security industry, ADT earlier this year was to be acquired by Republic Industries Inc. for $5 billion in a deal valued by ADT at $29 a share. But the deal collapsed in September after months of uncertainty due to volatility in Republic's stock price.
In a telephone interview, Western President Dave Wittig declined to discuss a potential higher bid, noting only that shares of ADT have appreciated considerably in recent months.
"I think that what we're putting on the table is a fair and full price," Wittig said.
Western Resources has spent much of 1996 laying the groundwork to buy the rest of ADT. It opposed Republic's bid for ADT and has agreed to buy six security properties this year, including Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s security business for $368 in a deal announced on Monday.
Last week, Western Resources announced plans to sell its natural gas assets to focus on its electricity and security businesses.
Although Western Resources has long been considered a potential buyer of ADT, the company was not yet expected to pursue a transaction.
Wittig said Western Resources did not pursue an offer for ADT while Republic was bidding because Western was consumed with its hostile $1.9 billion bid for Kansas City Power and Light. That transaction is still not resolved, but Western Resources is holding merger talks with the Kansas City, Mo.-based utility.
"They've got a lot on their plate, but as far as wanting to run the electronic security business, this is the way to do it," Jeffrey said.
The electronic security business has grown increasingly attractive to utilities and telecommunications companies in recent months as they prepare to enter new markets that previously were off-limits due to government regulation. The phone companies and utilities hope to add protection to their menu of services and expand in homes and businesses.
Hong Kong funds are expected to erect "Chinese walls" between asset management and traders after revelations of unsanctioned trades at the colony's biggest fund manager, Jardine Fleming Investment Management.
Central dealing, a system that prevents fund managers from executing their own trades, is gaining favour in Asia after last week's shocking disclosure of late allocation of trades by one of Hong Kong's most prominent fund managers, Colin Armstrong.
"There is an awareness in the pension (fund) community that this is an issue in Hong Kong," said Gregory Neumann, executive director at Scudder Stevens &amp; Clark Asia Ltd. "I think this could turn out to be a positive for the investment management industry -- no-one will get hired going forward without central dealing."
Regulators unveiled severe punishment last week for Armstrong's actions, which involved delaying the allocation of his trades until the price had changed. Some of the deals involved his own personal trading account.
London's Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) and the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) in Hong Kong fined Jardine Fleming 700,000 stg, revoked the registration for Jardine Fleming Investment Management's former chief executive and cancelled the authorisation for Jardine Fleming Asset Management in London.
Jardine Fleming, jointly owned by the Jardine Matheson and Robert Fleming groups, also paid US$19.3 million in compensation.
Regulators said they were convinced Jardine Fleming was committed to establishing a culture of regulatory compliance, and that central dealing was one useful step towards that goal.
"Central dealing simply means all the people managing money should place their orders through a central desk," said Deborah Glass, senior director at the SFC.
"If a fund manager can run his orders through all the brokers in town it's very difficult to track."
Placing another layer between the fund manager and his or her client creates a Chinese wall, reducing the opportunity for a fund manager to manipulate his or her orders. Three people are involved the transaction rather than two.
Chinese walls are supposed to be invisible but inviolate divisions between asset management operations that invest for clients, and sister broking and corporate finance departments whose clients are often bought by the funds.
Jardine Fleming said it would have central dealing desks set up in Tokyo and Hong Kong by the end of the year.
Most major investment managers in New York and London employ central dealing, but a quick review of major fund houses in Hong Kong revealed that many here do not.
One of Jardine Fleming's major competitors said all trades were put through different trading desks dedicated to individual markets rather than a central desk. Another competitor said a new automated order input system would eliniate the need for a central desk.
Other fund managers warned that central desks do not eradicate the opportunity for fraud, especially if there is a culture of non-compliance among the organisation's dealers.
It would be possible for fund managers and brokers on a central dealing desk to work together to move markets in a favourable direction before certain trades are executed.
"From time to time people in Hong Kong have had trouble with dealers," the fund manager warned. "It removes one area but it opens up the door to another."
Regulators last week stressed the importance of a "culture" of compliance throughout an organisation, and said they would be carefully watching Jardine Fleming and other fund companies operating in Hong Kong.
"One of the leading asset consulting firms here who was, I believe, acting on behalf of several institutional pension clients, just called to reconfirm that the managers of those various pension clients did have central dealing," Neumann said.
"This raises concerns for individuals in any institution," said Esther Heathcote, vice-president at BT Fund Management. "They have to have regard for internal controls and compliance."
As a subsidiary of an American bank based in Australia, BT Fund Management is regulated by the Australian Securities Commission and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Technology stocks rose Wednesday on a growing belief that recent price-cutting has spurred holiday personal computer sales as money managers loaded up on stocks to dress up their portfolios at year-end.
Traders and analysts said the rally was sparked by positive comments from a Soundview analyst about Compaq Computer Corp., and waning fears that the holiday sales season would be a dismal one for makers of PCs for consumers.
Soundview Financial analyst Mark Specker upgraded his short-term rating on Compaq to buy from hold and continued to recommend buying the stock for long-term gains.
His recommendations on technology stocks hold strong sway among institutional investors.
The enthusiasm swept up other PC makers like Dell Computer Corp. and spilled over to other top technology names.
Compaq rose $6.375 to $78.625 on Nasdaq while International Business Machines Corp. added $6.75 to $158.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Leading Nasdaq's most actives was Intel Corp., which added $5.75 to $135.75, Dell, up $3.125 to $56.50 and Microsoft Corp., which gained $2.75 to $82.625.
The Nasdaq composite index, laden with technology stocks, jumped 19.06 points to 1,285.38, a gain of 1.5 percent compared with a rise of 0.6 percent for the Dow Jones industrial average.
"It looks like they're going after the group again," said one trader, pointing in particular to Compaq, Intel and IBM.
"They are just buying the techs in a dramatic way again," agreed another trader. "The PC scare isn't what they thought it would be," he said.
Both IBM and Intel shares had reached 52-week highs in recent weeks, only to fall back in end-of-year profit-taking and a broader market downturn.
Peter Jenkins, director of global stock trading at Scudder Stevens &amp; Clark said, "It's a group move ... we're coming to the end of the year and these are big (institutional) holdings."
"IBM and Intel, I think have sold here over last couple of weeks, and whatever had to be done has been done," he said, which laid the groundwork for institutional buyers to add to their holdings.
"All (these) stocks are in a year-end window-dressing rally," said Philip Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management, who concurred that several of these stocks had been oversold in recent weeks.
"IBM is the one all the money managers want in their portfolios," Orlando said, referring to the desire to put the best face on their end-of-year report cards by which investors judge a fund's relative performance.
The burger battle will continue in the United States next year as fast-food chains test new recipes and cook up promotions to draw more customers into their eateries -- and away from each other.
McDonald's Corp dominates the landscape with about 12,000 U.S. units and over 20,000 worldwide. But in spite of a new menu, its U.S. same-store sales are below year-ago levels.
"This will be their sixth consecutive quarter of lower comps (same store sales) in the U.S.," Dean Witter analyst David Adelman said, referring to the fourth quarter of 1996.
Wendy's International Inc, on the other hand, has seen U.S. same store sales rise five to six percent in the fourth quarter, following an eight percent gain in the third quarter. Spokesman Denny Lynch declined to comment.
"Wendy's..., although their margins have been squeezed, has the best traffic of the big three," said Roger Lipton of Lipton Financial Services.
Wendy's has about 4,425 U.S. units and 4,925 worldwide.
Burger King, a unit of Grand Metropolitan Plc, said its U.S. same-store sales rose 2.6 percent for fiscal 1996 ended September 30.
Burger King had 8,696 units worldwide at the end of fiscal 1996, including more than 6,600 in the United States.
At this point, Wendy's may have the most significant new product offering in 1997, a fresh pita sandwich that is currently being tested in 11 U.S. markets and may be rolled out nationally next year, analysts said.
"It's being given very serious consideration," Lynch said of pita sandwiches. "We're very pleased with the test."
Adelman said he expects the pita sandwich to be launched in the United States later in 1997, adding, "That's going to be a material event for (Wendy's)."
In 1996, McDonald's stole the menu spotlight by introducing its Arch Deluxe hamburger, garnished with lettuce, tomato and a mustard-mayonnaise sauce, as well new chicken and fish deluxe sandwiches.
In spite of those new menu items, McDonald's same store sales continued to show declines compared with a year ago.
McDonald's U.S. same store sales showed a negative comparison in the first nine months of 1996, spokesman Chuck Ebeling said, but he declined comment on the fourth quarter.
McDonald's has blamed the drop in its U.S. same store sales in part on an intensely competitive domestic market.
Looking ahead, analysts said the most significant event for McDonald's likely will be the start in 1997 of its 10-year exclusive marketing alliance with Walt Disney Co. That alliance gives McDonald's exclusive rights to marketing tie-ins -- such as toy giveaways -- to Disney movies.
Ebeling said the Disney alliance will be the "centerpiece" of McDonald's marketing efforts, "but not the only thing."
As for its menu, Ebeling said McDonald's will continue to focus on "delivering great food taste," but he did not comment on new items.
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
A television industry group is set to formally unveil its controversial system for rating programmes on Thursday so parents can better control the shows their children tune in.
The group of broadcast, cable-TV and Hollywood executives has been meeting privately since March to fashion a motion-picture style system to rate the thousands of hours of shows based on their suitability for kids of different ages.
Despite loud criticism from lawmakers, parents groups, consumers advocates, educators and others, the executives said they have decided against a content-based system that would spell out the level of sex, violence and strong language.
They called such an approach unworkable. And they said an age-based system -- such as TV-14 as suitable for children age 14 and older -- will be easy for parents to use, simple to understand, and convenient for newspapers to publish.
Jack Valenti, chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America and head of the group developing the ratings, predicted to reporters that once more people begin to understand the new system, they will realise "this is a hell of a lot better than what we have now."
The ratings, to be unveiled in Washington, are expected to include six categories. Four are expected to be: TV-G for suitable for all ages; TV-PG for parental guidance suggested; TV-14 for kids 14 and older; and TV-M for mature audiences.
The other two will cover children's programs: those suitable for all kids and those for children older than seven.
The ratings will be put in use next month. TV networks and syndicators will rate their shows. News, news magazine shows such as "60 Minutes" and sports will be exempted.
But programmes such as "Hard Copy" and "Entertainment Tonight" are expected to receive ratings instead of being classified as bona fide news programmes, said one source.
President Clinton last week gave the system a conditional green light, saying that critics should allow the TV industry to test the ratings for 10 months before demanding changes.
Yet the controversy is unlikely to die soon. Kathryn Montgomery, president of the Centre for Media Education, a children's advocacy group, called the system "inadequate."
She said it "fails to provide parents the information they need to make decisions about what their children will watch."
Top officials at the Federal Communications Commission plan to reserve judgment until they study the system.
Bay Networks Inc., keeping up with rivals in the computer networking business, said Wednesday it paid $99 million in cash and stock to buy closely held NetICs Inc.
The acquisition gives Bay Networks a line of devices called Fast Ethernet switches that are becoming increasingly popular with computer technicians for speeding up the flow of information through corporate computer networks.
Bay Networks' rivals Cisco Systems Inc. and 3Com Corp. have bought similar Fast Ethernet technology in recent months.
Bay Networks, based in Santa Clara, Calif., agreed to pay about $55 million in stock and $44 million in cash for NetICs, a company that has yet to report any revenue. Bay will charge "a substantial portion" of the purchase price against earnings for its quarter ending in December, the company said.
Bay Networks' stock was off 12.5 cents at $21.50 in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
The acquisition keeps Bay Networks up to date with rapidly emerging technology, said Dick Eyestone, its senior vice president. "We live in dog years in this industry. Six months is like forever," he said.
Eyestone, who will oversee NetICs' operation as a Bay Networks unit, said his company plans to use NetICs' designs in its own line of networking products. Bay will release the first product from the acquisition in the first quarter.
NetICs, formed in 1995 by a dozen engineers, will remain in Acton, Mass. Until now, NetICs has been developing its technology and has not had any revenue, said Gary Vacon, NetICs founder and president.
Some analysts said they were surprised by the amount of money Bay was willing to pay to get its hands on the technology.
"I know companies with revenues in this sector that would be happy to get $30 million," said Steve Koffler, an analyst at NatWest Securities in New York. "They obviously felt they need this technology."
Bay Networks executives said they are paying the standard price for high-tech startups.
"This is right in line with the industry standard and our expectations," said Bill Ruehle, Bay Networks chief financial officer. He declined to say how much revenue he expects NetICs products to generate.
Seven years after General Motors Corp created the Geo brand to entice more import buyers, the automaker is dropping the name, though it will continue to sell the Metro, Prizm and Tracker models as Chevrolet vehicles.
Chevrolet General Manager John Middlebrook said the Chevrolet image and its products have improved to the point where it no longer needed the Geo badge to attract new buyers.
Middlebrook said the move also fitted in with GM's efforts to unclutter its numerous brand images among consumers.  
GM created the Geo brand in 1989 as a sub-category of Chevrolet by renaming several Chevrolet vehicles. The name Geo, created under the direction of former GM Chairman Roger Smith, was meant to signify a world car.
GM plans no changes to the joint venture agreements that produce the Geo vehicles. The Prizm, essentially the same car as the Corolla from Toyota Motor Corp, is made by NUMMI, a Fremont, Calif.-based venture with Toyota.
Both the Metro and Tracker are produced in Ingersoll, Ontario, at CAMI, GM's joint venture with Suzuki Motor Corp.  
Middlebrook, who took over as general manager of Chevrolet in early 1996, said the move has been under consideration for some time, following the renewed strength of the Chevrolet brand.
Chevrolet, which currently has 16 different products, has introduced 18 new models since 1989. Consumer research has shown that awareness levels and purchase consideration jump between 30 percent and 40 percent when target buyers compare Chevrolet with Geo, the company said.
"It's the strength of the Chevrolet brand that's driving this," Middlebrook said.  
In a sign that GM still has an image problem with import buyers, Prizm sales lag those of its Corolla sister by a wide margin. The Prizm sold about 77,000 units through November of this year, compared with 188,000 for the Corolla.
Sales for all three Geo vehicles have fallen since reaching a high of 325,000 in the 1990 calendar year. Sales for the first 11 months of 1996 totaled 206,491. Although that was an increase of eight percent over a year ago, the vehicles carried rebates ranging from $300 to $1,000.  
In selling the Prizm as a Chevrolet, the division's 4,400 U.S. dealers will have a car similar in price and features to the Cavalier sedan.
However, Richard Scheidt, Geo brand manager, said GM did not anticipate too much duplication because traditional Geo buyers are different from typical Chevrolet buyers. For instance, he said the Prizm outsells the Cavalier in Texas.
Analysts reacted favorably to the move, saying it demonstrates another step by GM to use its marketing and advertising resources more efficiently.  
Joseph Phillippi, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said it was also not out of the question that GM would eventually drop some of the current Geo models.
"I would guess at some point in time they would do some additional pruning," he said.
Chevrolet, which will gain some marketing efficiencies through the move, will pay for the new signs that dealers will be required to put up, Middlebrook said.
Gerald Seiner, a Chevrolet-Geo dealer in Salt Lake City, Utah, said dealers were in favor of the move because it would bring a simpler image to the Chevrolet brand.  
"Frankly, I haven't had anybody walk through the door and say they want to buy a Geo," he said.
British media and leisure firm Pearson, awaiting the arrival of a new chief executive, enjoyed a stock market rally on Wednesday after a trading statement which analysts said contained no nasty surprises.
Pearson shares had gained 25p to 714 1/2p by 1300 GMT as a steady trading statement confounded the pessimists who had pushed the shares down to two-month lows on Tuesday.
Texan Marjorie Scardino will take over as Pearson chief executive from January, becoming the first woman to head one of Britain's top 100 companies.
Scardino, who is moving from the 50-percent Pearson-owned Economist Group, is on record as saying that Pearson's profit performance is not good enough.
Many share analysts say that Pearson has yet to complete its 1990s journey from industrial conglomerate to focused media company and that disposals are likely.
They believe Scardino may sell off the company's merchant banking interests and its Tussauds Group theme park and exhibition unit but they expect her to take her time before beginning to mould the company in her image.
Pearson has a 50 percent stake in London merchant bank Lazard Brothers and nine percent holdings in Lazard Freres in Paris and New York.
The Tussauds portfolio includes London's famous Madame Tussaud's waxwork exhibition and theme parks such as Alton Towers in the UK and Port Aventura in Spain.
There was a sense of relief after Pearson, which has interests ranging from newspaper and book publishing to television, said that trading conditions in the second half of the current year were in line with those of the first six months.
"All in all, it's in line with expectations but that in itself is good as the last few trading updates from the company have been disappointing," said Anthony de Larrinaga of brokers Panmure Gordon.
Pearson said that total video retuning costs associated with the launch of the Channel 5 terrestrial television channel next March would rise to around 150 million pounds ($250 million).
This is almost treble the sum initially earmarked for dealing with video recorders affected by interference from the new channel's signal. But it is below the figure quoted in some recent media reports.
Channel 5 has recently been awarded an extra frequency to boost its coverage to 80 percent of the country and Pearson said its business plan showed significantly higher rates of return than in the original bid.
Pearson said the retuning costs and a major film deal with Fox would come out of the 300 million pound original funding agreed by the Channel 5 shareholders. The other shareholders are Britain's United News &amp; Media, U.S. investment firm Warburg Pincus and Luxembourg broadcast group CLT.
This year's losses from Mindscape, Pearson's ailing U.S. consumer software unit, should be in line with earlier forecasts of around 46 million pounds. Pearson also saw no real impact on its 1996 profits from the current strength of sterling.
Shares in British media and leisure firm Pearson Plc recovered on Wednesday following a trading statement which calmed market jitters about the outlook for the company.
Pearson had dipped to a two-month low on Tuesday but bounced back after the company said trading in the second half of the current year was in line with the first half. The shares were 20 1/2p firmer at 710p by 095 GMT.
Analysts said there was relief that Pearson, which passes into the hands of new chief executive Marjorie Scardino in January, had not produced any really nasty surprises.
"All in all, it's in line with expectations but that in itself is good as the last few trading updates from the company have been disappointing," said Anthony de Larrinaga of brokers Panmure Gordon.
Pearson said that total video retuning costs associated with the launch of the Channel 5 terrestrial television channel next March would rise to around 150 million pounds ($250 million).
This is almost treble the sum initially earmarked for dealing with video recorders affected by interference from the new channel's signal. But it is below the figure quoted in some recent media reports.
Channel 5 has recently been awarded an extra frequency to boost its coverage to 80 percent of the country and Pearson said its business plan showed significantly higher rates of return than in the original bid.
Pearson said the retuning costs and a major film deal with Fox would come out of the 300 million pound ($500 million) original funding agreed by the Channel 5 shareholders. The other shareholders are Britain's United News &amp; Media, U.S. investment firm Warburg Pincus and Luxembourg broadcast group CLT.
This year's losses from Mindscape, Pearson's ailing U.S. consumer software unit, should be in line with earlier forecasts of around 46 million pounds. Pearson also saw no real impact on its 1996 profits from the current strength of sterling.
Pearson's interests range from the Financial Times newspaper, through to theme parks and television production.
The company's critics have long said it lacks focus and much attention is centred on the likely impact of Texan Scardino, the first woman to head one of Britain's leading companies.
"The key issue remains what the structure of Pearson will be. Which are the core areas and do all parts of the business fit?" said de Larrinaga. ($1=.6003 Pound)
A Silicon Valley company has developed a new technology designed to turn the World Wide Web from a random, hit-or-miss quest into a highly targeted personal service that it says can change to suit your mood.
The new service, known as The Angle, is available immediately as a showcase for Los Altos, Calif.-based BroadVision Inc.'s One-to-One technology for personalizing the World Wide Web.
The technology enables a person to set up an individual profile, or "angle," combining personal interests and preferred style to customise the "look and feel" of the Web service.
Users can also chose from several "personalities" to try out different ways of viewing information on the Internet, or choose different profiles for different moods -- such as one for the business day and another for use at home.
"We give the user the remote control," Broadvision said in materials prepared for the formal unveiling Tuesday of The Angle site, at the URL  http://www.theangle.com.
"We put you in the driver's seat. As you change, so do your information needs," the company said.
Use of the site is free of charge and requires no registration. Profiling information is stored only for the benefit of users, the company said, to ensure privacy and enable them to change their profile at any time.
Pehong Chen, the founder, president and chief executive of BroadVision, said the technology would serve not only as a showcase, but would enable large organisations to develop co-branded sites based on the BroadVision product.
"Seeing is believing," he told Reuters in an interview. "People can choose a personality, somebody they can relate to, or disguise themselves as sombody else ... This makes it fun and easy to understand."
Chen said the company is targeting a Global 1000 list of large companies for developing both co-branded services and for using the technology internally in private networks known as Intranets to communicate with individual employees.
It has already begun collaborating with Web partners and formed a new division, the Content Services Group, to provide software products, consulting services and original content for both consumers and consumer-oriented businesses.
The Angle is the first application developed by the group, which is also releasing a Web-based distributed multi-user Intranet application called WebPoint, which handles calendar, workflow and communications among publishers and editorial staff involved in creating and maintaining Web sites.
Editors in the group also provide a Web Site rating system which can point users to sites with a "Look Before You Link" feature providing data on how easy a site is to use, its graphics intensity, level of innovation and interactivity and update frequency before even entering the site.
BroadVision has signed a charter co-branding partnership agreement with Virgin Communications of London. Branded as "The Virgin Angle", the service will include additional UK perspectives and is due to be available in the fourth quarter.
The new division is also advising Minneapolis-based Netradio Networks on "The Netradio Angle," which is designed to be a music Web site recomendation service.
BroadVision completed an initial public offering of stock in June and Chen said the company is currently ahead of its business plan.
China's stock markets surged anew on Wednesday following two days of dramatic falls, as investors recovered from the shock of an official crackdown on speculation, traders said.
Shanghai's B share index closed up 9.84 percent at 64.252 points and the A index was up 7.34 percent at 1016.241.
In Shenzhen, the B share index closed limit-up 10 percent at 133.8 points while the domestic A index gained 4.37 percent to 391.92 points.
The gains followed two days of precipitous falls after an announcement from Beijing that the stock markets were overheated and that the authorities would not step in to help investors if they collapsed.
"Investors are recovering from the shock," one trader said. "Reassurances to investors from exchange officials and local media that Beijing will continue to develop the markets has helped."
The China Securities newspaper on Tuesday quoted the presidents of the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges as welcoming the crackdown, saying the markets needed stability to develop.
The newspaper also urged investors to be fully confident that the central government would continue to develop the stock markets on the basis of standardisation.
"Active buying emerged in the early afternoon, with an increasing number of investors reluctant to reduce their B share holdings after the nosedives of the past couple of days," a Shenzhen-based broker with Shanghai Guotai Securities said.
"Institutional buying targeted shares of firms with strong earnings records," he added.
Traders said that both domestic institutions and overseas investors built new positions on the B share market in the belief that the impact of the crackdown would be limited.
They said many investors believed B share prices were now very cheap and would rise in the short term. One analyst said Shanghai's B shares on average were priced at only one-third the level of their A-share counterparts.
Most B shares mostly ended limit-up on Wednesday.
Traders said A-share trading was dominated by speculators who wanted to take advantage of plunges in the past two days to build positions.
Some retail investors who had bought at higher levels also built positions on Wednesday to reduce the average cost of their shares, they added.
Several A shares, mostly blue-chips, closed limit-up. Market giant Shanghai Petrochemical rose 0.50 yuan to 6.50 yuan on volume of 42.5 million shares, making it the day's most active stock.
"The markets might be over-speculative on the whole, but blue chips have not been the target of excessive speculation," said one trader. "Shanghai Petrochmical, for instance, had a P/E (price-earnings) ratio of only 18 percent against an average of 40 for the market."
Traders believe the B share market is likely to continue to rise in the next few days, but that A share rises will be limited.
Demand is the engine that will drive China's metals markets in 1997, said analysts and traders who expect a modest flow of money to keep consumption of base metals such as aluminium and copper ticking over.
"Consumption, don't forget consumption. It is much more important than people think," a South American industry executive told Reuters.
"The fundamentals really call for a higher price," he said of copper.  
While some trading and production firms are convinced an increase in total worldwide copper production capacity could lead to a supply glut after the first quarter of 1997, and a subsequent price spike, the Chilean source disagreed.
Buoyant global demand should ensure copper prices stay above the "magic US$1 a lb figure" for a good part of the year, he said, adding that Chinese consumption would make up an important proportion of the total.  
A senior metal trader in Shanghai said the city's metal futures exchange was becoming more reflective of real underlying fundamentals in the country's base metal market and reducing the opportunity to arbitrage between cash and futures prices.
"If they (traders) don't think (copper) imports are necessary, the (futures) price will stay low, but if consumption needs pick up, the exchange price will go up," she said.
Arbitraging had been a feature of the Shanghai exchange in 1996, the Shanghai trading source said.  
"It looks like there will be efforts to control arbitraging (in 1997) -- though if the demand is there and stock is low, then the price will go up anyway," she said.
The Shanghai Metal Exchange had enough copper stocks to see end-users through to Chinese New Year in February, she said.
Daryl Ho, senior economist in Hong Kong with Jardine Fleming Asia Research, said the effects of Beijing's easing of credit restrictions would be seen more clearly in 1997 as money began filtering through to such sectors as construction.  
Traders have complained since mid-1996 that a near-halt to construction throughout China, based on a lack of available cash to keep projects going, has stifled metals use and purchasing.
This slowdown would be reflected in China's overall 1996 economic growth figure, expected to come in at eight to nine percent after 10.2 percent in 1995, an aluminium trader said.
"Eight to 10 percent growth for 1996 is a beautiful rate for Europe, but China is looking at having had 13 percent in recent years, so it is a setback," he said.
"We think it is a healthy setback, setting the scene for more stable growth and it is quite encouraging."  
Aluminium in China had bucked the year's international trend of de-stocking -- one that will see the rest of the world's end-users, having run down their stockpiles, re-stocking in 1997 -- much to the delight of producers.
China's official figures would probably show aluminium imports for 1996 at around 400,000 tonnes, the trader, speaking on condition of anonymity, said.
"But I think a lot of that has to do with cargoes delayed from 1995 and that actual net imports will be around 300,000 tonnes," not much changed from 1995, he said.  
And for 1997? "We see no change in the pattern in 1997, China will be pretty much business as usual," he said.
Jardine Fleming's Ho said the easier availability of money might not translate immediately into higher base metal imports as extra domestic production had to be absorbed first.
The main sticking point for the industry in 1997 and beyond will be how the government deals with the myriad state enterprises that continue to bleed cash.
The state-owned enterprises were effectively shouldering the government's social welfare burden, Ho said.  
The metals industry provides some startling examples of this excess, with smelters and factories employing in some cases hundreds of thousands of people, subsidising for them everything from housing and schooling to health care and food.
At the same time, Ho said, management had no incentive to work for profit "so money keeps flowing out of the government's pockets".
"It is not an impossible problem to solve if the government can encourage the development of the private sector -- and that's a slow process," Ho said.  
China's communist leaders are anxious to avoid the problems of unemployment and bankruptcy that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union and now plague Russia's attempts at reform.
A German source saw these problems of over-employment and under-performance as the metal industry's Nemesis.
"Look at the zinc smelters -- a total disaster. They are all bankrupt. This is just a big black hole, overstaffed, totally overstaffed -- which is also a result of the system," he said on condition of anonymity.  
"It's all the system -- look at Russia, look at East Germany, they all had the same problem," he said, echoing many other traders and industry executives polled by Reuters.
He cited the example of China Steel in Taiwan, which produces 5.65 million tonnes a year of crude steel with 13,000 employees.
Compare these figures to one of China's biggest steel producers, Baotou Iron and Steel in Inner Mongolia, which employs 160,000 people for annual crude steel output of just four million tonnes.  
"This is such a classic example, it tells you everything. This is China's problem. And it will only get worse," he said.
Problems of corruption and inefficiency aside, it is a rare international metals company that feels it can afford not to be in China.
"China is becoming a more important market," the Chilean source said.
"For instance, in 1992/93 only 200,000 tonnes of (copper) concentrate was being imported. Now it is double and I don't see this trend stopping any time," he said.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Two Nomura Securities group asset management firms said on Wednesday that they would merge next October to create a top player with a competitive edge on rivals in Japan's rapidly growing market.
The planned merger of Nomura Investment Management (NIM) which manages corporate pension funds and other large funds, and Nomura Securities Investment Trust Management (NSITM) which manages investment trusts for individuals -- similar to mutual funds -- would yield one of the world's biggest asset management companies, with total assets of 15 trillion yen ($132 billion) under its care, analysts said.
NIM president Tadashi Takubo told a news conference that overlapping operations at the two firms would be streamlined to sharpen the new company's competitive edge as Japan implements broad financial reforms targeted for completion by 2001.
Last month, Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto unveiled plans for a five-year "Big Bang" to liberalise Japan's financial markets and recoup Tokyo's status as the key financial centre.
Among Hashimoto's proposals was a call to make effective use of individual financial assets which now total some 1,200 trillion yen ($10.61 trillion).
"We would like to form an internationally competitive system because regulations on asset management are being lifted (in Japan), Takubo said.
Getting good returns on those assets is increasingly vital as Japan confronts a rapid rise in the proportion of elderly people in its population, analysts said.
Foreign rivals are also keen to cash in on the expected growth in Japan's pension fund and investment trust markets. Andrew Simmonds, president of BZW Securities (Japan) Ltd, said last month, "One of the things I think is exciting is the potential mutualisation of the savings base in Japan.  We're not alone there -- everyone else is excited by that."
U.S. mutual fund giant Fidelity Investments also plans to enter the Japanese market in a big way next year and hopes to lure Japanese investors now fed up with ultra-low returns by making available its unique U.S.-style services.
An industry source said that outstanding mutual funds in Japan total only about 50 trillion yen ($442 billion) in Japan compared to nearly 200 trillion yen ($1.76 trillion) in the United States.
"The figures show Japan's investment trust market has the potential to grow much bigger," the source said.
Some analysts dubbed the planned merger a natural attempt to boost efficiency, but others warned that achieving that goal was not necessarily assured.
"Nomura's asset management companies have already been big compared with competitors, and it is questionable whether they will be able to boost performance through the merger," said an official at an overseas-based investment advisory firm.
"Generally speaking, fund managers at Japanese companies are conservative," he said. "They tend to avoid investment risks because they see the risks, which are short-term volatility, as something dangerous. But experienced foreign advisors are well-qualified to manage pension funds as they take reasonable risks in long-term pension fund management."
Toru Tsuchida, president of NSITM, meanwhile, said the merged company would not cut jobs and in fact might increase its workforce later to improve the quality of asset management and research. ($1=113 yen)
Canadian nickel giant Falconbridge Ltd has a growing appetite for expansion and is poised for growth through acquisition and exploration, the company's new chief executive officer said in an interview.
"The appetite of this company is much higher than what it used to be," Oyvind Hushovd told Reuters on Wednesday. "Falconbridge is in very good shape financially today, which means that we have the ability to grow."
Hushovd, 46, replaced Frank Pickard as chief executive this month after Pickard died suddenly at the age of 63 during a business trip in Chile this September.
Hushovd, originally from Norway, has worked for Falconbridge for more than 22 years.
He spent the past year and a half working closely with Pickard in the position of executive vice-president and was chairman of the steering committee that put together a strategic plan to carry Falconbridge into the next century.
"I don't see a need to revolutionize Falconbridge," he said. "The backbone of Falconbridge is nickel, and copper is another leg of Falconbridge. It will probably be like that in the future."
However, Hushovd is not content simply to sit back and let the long-term strategic plan unfold.
The plan calls for Falconbridge to double its annual nickel production to 200,000 tonnes and triple its copper production to about 500,000 tonnes a year, within 15 years.
To do that, Falconbridge needs to find growth opportunities, especially since the company lost a bid to take over the huge Voisey's Bay nickel, copper and cobalt deposit in remote Labrador, said Hushovd.
Ongoing work in New Caledonia, Ivory Coast and Zambia should complement plans to start producing nickel by the end of next year at the Raglan project in Quebec and plans to produce copper by 1998 at the Collahuasi joint venture project in Chile, Hushovd said.
In Zambia, Falconbridge joined a consortium in November to develop the Konkola Deep copper mine, in which Falconbridge is partners with South Africa's Gencor Ltd and Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd.
In New Caledonia in the South Pacific, Falconbridge is poised to gain access to nickel reserves to supply a nickel plant planned in the north of the country. The board of France's Eramet on Thursday said it had agreed to reallocate its mining reserves in New Caledonia, which would give Falconbridge access to Eramet's Koniambo field.
Hushovd does not intend not stop there.
"Falconbridge has always been very strong in exploration," he said. "We felt we lacked the business development infrastructure."
So last summer, the company set up a business development group, to search out growth opportunities either through exploration or acquisition.
While Hushovd would not hint at specific acquisition targets, he stressed, "I want properties that are not only profitable today but are also profitable in the future."
In any future acquisitions, Falconbridge can probably count on support from its powerful majority shareholder, Noranda Inc, which owns 46 percent.
"We have a big owner, which means that hopefully we can pursue things that might be tough to pursue on our own," Hushovd said. "We can have a bigger appetite than the company on its own would have."
Hushovd said he had no immediate plans to boost the company's share price, which peaked at C$32.75 in May but is currently trading around C$29.15.
He noted that the stock normally reflects the nickel price, which has failed to meet expectations in 1996.
"I think we all had very high hopes for nickel this year, and the market did not turn out the way that we had forecasted," he said.
As for next year, "I feel it's difficult to give a prediction at the present time. Fundamentally I do believe we're going to see better prices in 97 than we did in 96," Hushovd said. ((Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100))
Canadian nickel giant Falconbridge Ltd has a growing appetite for expansion and is poised for growth through acquisition and exploration, the company's new chief executive officer said in an interview.
"The appetite of this company is much higher than what it used to be," Oyvind Hushovd told Reuters on Wednesday. "Falconbridge is in very good shape financially today, which means that we have the ability to grow."
Hushovd, 46, replaced Frank Pickard as chief executive this month after Pickard died suddenly at the age of 63 during a business trip in Chile this September.
Hushovd, originally from Norway, has worked for Falconbridge for more than 22 years.
He spent the past year and a half working closely with Pickard in the position of executive vice-president and was chairman of the steering committee that put together a strategic plan to carry Falconbridge into the next century.
"I don't see a need to revolutionize Falconbridge," he said. "The backbone of Falconbridge is nickel, and copper is another leg of Falconbridge. It will probably be like that in the future."
However, Hushovd is not content simply to sit back and let the long-term strategic plan unfold.
The plan calls for Falconbridge to double its annual nickel production to 200,000 tonnes and triple its copper production to about 500,000 tonnes a year, within 15 years.
To do that, Falconbridge needs to find growth opportunities, especially since the company lost a bid to take over the huge Voisey's Bay nickel, copper and cobalt deposit in remote Labrador, said Hushovd.
Ongoing work in New Caledonia, Ivory Coast and Zambia should complement plans to start producing nickel by the end of next year at the Raglan project in Quebec and plans to produce copper by 1998 at the Collahuasi joint venture project in Chile, Hushovd said.
In Zambia, Falconbridge joined a consortium in November to develop the Konkola Deep copper mine, in which Falconbridge is partners with South Africa's Gencor Ltd and Anglo American Corp of South Africa Ltd.
In New Caledonia in the South Pacific, Falconbridge is poised to gain access to nickel reserves to supply a nickel plant planned in the north of the country. The board of France's Eramet on Thursday said it had agreed to reallocate its mining reserves in New Caledonia, which would give Falconbridge access to Eramet's Koniambo field.
Hushovd does not intend not stop there.
"Falconbridge has always been very strong in exploration," he said. "We felt we lacked the business development infrastructure."
So last summer, the company set up a business development group, to search out growth opportunities either through exploration or acquisition.
While Hushovd would not hint at specific acquisition targets, he stressed, "I want properties that are not only profitable today but are also profitable in the future."
In any future acquisitions, Falconbridge can probably count on support from its powerful majority shareholder, Noranda Inc, which owns 46 percent.
"We have a big owner, which means that hopefully we can pursue things that might be tough to pursue on our own," Hushovd said. "We can have a bigger appetite than the company on its own would have."
Hushovd said he had no immediate plans to boost the company's share price, which peaked at C$32.75 in May but is currently trading around C$29.15.
He noted that the stock normally reflects the nickel price, which has failed to meet expectations in 1996.
"I think we all had very high hopes for nickel this year, and the market did not turn out the way that we had forecasted," he said.
As for next year, "I feel it's difficult to give a prediction at the present time. Fundamentally I do believe we're going to see better prices in 97 than we did in 96," Hushovd said.
((Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100))
If the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System does as expected early Friday and votes to expand banks' non-banking activities, it will only heighten the drive in Congress to overhaul U.S. banking regulations completely, analysts and industry officials said.
The Fed is expected to vote to allow banks' section 20 subsidiaries to derive 25 percent of their revenue from non-banking activities such as securities underwriting, up from the current 10 percent ceiling.  
The section 20 proposal was released for comment in July, but since then another bank regulator has stolen some of the Fed's thunder. Comptroller of the Currency Eugene Ludwig said his office will begin approving bank affiliates moving into an assortment of non-banking businesses.
Both the Fed's proposal and the Comptroller's actions will raise the pressure on Congress to scrap the Glass-Steagall Act, according to Robert Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institute.  
In the past, banks led the charge to change the law because they wanted to get into other businesses, like selling insurance or underwriting stock deals. Insurance companies and securities firms generally opposed the banks creating legislative gridlock.
"Now the tables have been turned," Litan said. "But it's not a two-way street. Other industries will want to level the playing field."  
Both moves also reflect current market realities. The financial services industry, from banks to insurance companies to mutual funds, is converging. Mutual funds already offer checking account-like money market funds and some of the leading stock and bond underwriters are commercial banks.
In the words of one top regulator, the Fed's move from 10 to 25 percent, "is not material." The Fed has required banks to take certain steps to prevent problems in the subsidiaries from affecting the bank itself, and its government-insured deposits.
Competitors in other fields fret that the banks insured deposits are a form of government subsidy giving the banks an unfair advantage when they venture into other fields.
Comptroller Ludwig disagreed. Speaking to reporters after delivering a speech here Thursday, Ludwig said that walling off the subsidiary "basically eliminates any subsidization."
He opposes efforts by some in Congress to keep banks out of certain fields, such as real estate or merchant banking, entirely. "It's a mistake to set product limits, particularly in this day and age when we have such a dynamic marketplace," he said.
((--Aaron Pressman, 202-898-8312))
Czech economic growth should slow
in 1997, before accelerating again as an ailing foreign trade
balance improves, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD), said on Thursday.
Czech inflation, it said, should ease a bit in 1997 and
more decisively the following year.
In its twice-yearly report, the Paris-based organisation of
the world's most industrialised countries forecast gross
domestic product (GDP) growth to slow to 4.6 percent next year
from 4.8 percent in 1996 but then rise to 5.3 percent in 1998.
"Growth is projected to become better balanced with
investment expected to continue to grow at double digit rates
and household consumption playing a smaller role in GDP
growth," the report said.
The current account deficit as a percentage of GDP would
dip to 5.4 percent in 1997 from 5.8 percent this year, but then
ease to 4.9 percent of GDP in 1998, it said.
Export growth should accelerate to 7.5 percent year-on-year
in 1997 and 8.7 percent in 1998 from 5.5 percent this year,
while import growth should slow to 9.5 percent in the next two
years from 11.3 percent.
"The foreign (trade) balance is expected to improve since
import growth will weaken while exports should recover from the
recent slowdown in line with the projected economic recovery in
the main export markets," the OECD said.
The Czech National Bank however has warned that the
country's current account deficit could grow to as much as
seven percent of gross domestic product in 1996.
The OECD said annual inflation should slow to 8.5 percent
in 1997 and 7.5 percent in 1998 from 9.1 percent this year.
As consolidation continues in the economy, unemployment
should rise to 3.6 percent next year and 4.1 percent in 1998
from about three percent this year, still one of the lowest
rates in the industrialised world.
It said "higher labour productivity and projected wage
moderation will have a favourable effect on price dynamics, but
the inflation rate will still be higher than the OECD average
by the end of the projection period."
But the OECD, which the Czechs joined at the end of 1995,
warned of risks if real wage growth fails to moderate after
growing faster than productivity over the last three years.
"The consumption boom could continue and, despite the
announced fiscal prudence, the trade deficit could widen
further," it said.
- - - - - - - - - -  -
 CZECH REPUBLIC			 1995     1996    1997    1998
 private consumption (pct chg y/y) 6.4	6.0     5.0     4.5
 government consumption	     -4.3     -1.5    -2.0	 0
 gross fixed capital formation    16.1     16.0    13.5    12.5
  final domestic demand		7.2	7.9     6.8 6.7
  * stockbuilding			5.2	1.4	 0	 0
 TOTAL domestic demand		12.1	8.7     6.4     6.4
 exports of goods and services     7.9	5.5     7.5     8.7
 imports of goods and services    19.2     11.3     9.5     9.5
 GDP at market prices		  4.8	4.8     4.6     5.3
 GDP (implicit price deflator)    11.5     12.0    10.5     9.5
--------------------------------------------------------------
Memorandum items
 Private consumption deflator	9.1	9.1     8.5     7.8
 Industrial production		 9.2	8.5     7.5     8.5
 Unemployment rate		     3.0	3.0     3.6     4.1
 Gen. gov't financial bal (pct/gdp)0.3	  0	 0	 0
 Current account balance	    -4.1     -5.8    -5.4    -4.9
Note. All results and estimates are by the OECD and are
adjusted using 1992 prices as a base.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Port dues at Ivory Coast's main port of Abidjan will rise by up to 6.4 percent from January 1 to fund expansion projects, a government statement said.
Rates would increase by 6.3 percent for ships, 6.4 percent for container gantry cranes, 5.8 percent for containers and 2.5 percent for cargo and other items, it said.
The charges, which caught shipping companies off guard, were agreed by Abidjan Port Authority in September but awaited government blessing. "The cabinet has approved the new rates," the statement said.
Shipping companies said the costs would probably have little impact but were awaiting more details from Port Authority.
"We have not done our calculations yet but if this is just a port charge rather than a direct handling charge it will passed straight on to the consumer," said one container line manager.
Others said growing competition on West Africa-European routes would mean some companies might choose to absorb some costs to attract business.
"Competition determines what costs are passed on," said another shipping manager. More ships had been deployed in the West Africa region recently as freight rates were higher than on Far Eastern routes.
"Port costs are a hell of a lot higher than in the Far East but freight rate earnings are also better," said the manager. "We will wait for clearer details."
International donors have been pushing for efficiency measures rather than investment in infrastructure as a way to boost cargo handling capacity. In December 1995 the government urged port operators to meet efficiency targets to attract private sector development loans from the World Bank.
"Things have definitely improved. Container throughput time at the port for imports was 17 days," said a container shipping manager. "Now it is only 11 and the target was set at seven."
The efficiency drive began last December but shippers say export cargo efficiency targets have been less successful. A target of three days was set for export container throughput.
"For exports we are talking about rapid documentation for transit cargo. Bureaucracy there has not changed much," said another line manager. This is mainly cotton from the Sahel.
Measures include shortening times for declaring ships' manifests to customs, under the threat of port fines, and avoiding duplication of paperwork.
Gantry cranes, plagued by downtime, were expected to be in use 90 percent of the time and handle 16 containers an hour.
Local shipping agents said they were also concerned by talk of a bunker surcharge. Large customs fines for non declaration of ships' bunkers have been levied over the past year.
"It's a problem. But the port needs money and still competes well with others in the area," said one. "Other ports in the area have applied all kinds of add-on charges."
Projects put on hold after devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994 included new gantry cranes, renovating a fruit terminal, building a fish wharf, dredging and a new container park.
Increasing quantities of Ivory Coast's principal cocoa and coffee exports are being shipped in containers. --Abidjan newsroom +225 21 90 90
Russia's Finance Ministry said on Thursday that Moscow was ready to cooperate with De Beers on a deal which a deputy minister said was vital to support the diamond market.
"The Russian Federation is further ready to cooperate with the De Beers company in the matter of continued support of the stability of the world diamond market," it said in a statement.
However, the ministry said it had received no official word from the South African group on its announcement on Wednesday that it had given the Russian government until the end of the year to sign a new trade agreement to export Russian rough gems.
The statement said the ministry, which plays a key role in the trade agreement, was studying what it termed De Beers' unilateral cessation of an agreement to sell Russian gems through De Beers' Central Selling Organisation.
De Beers had said not that it was unilaterally halting the agreement, but that if a formal deal were not reached by 1997, it would cancel its interim arrangement with Russia.
De Beers said it had made its announcement on Wednesday because its patience had worn thin over government delays in replying to the long-delayed deal.
First Deputy Economy Minister Vladimir Panskov said an agreement with De Beers was necessary.
"If this agreement is not signed, we will simply destroy the world diamond market. Neither the De Beers company nor Russia will be able to work normally without such an agreement," Interfax news agency quoted Panskov as saying.
De Beers controls about three quarters of the world diamond market and Russia accounts for about 25 percent of all rough gems De Beers sells.
A five-year deal expired in December 1995 and was replaced by a memorandum signed in February 1996.
Panskov said that in the course of work on the agreement, differences of opinion between Russian diamond producer Almazy Rossii-Sakha (ARS), domestic gem processing plants and De Beers had become clear.
"But I think that in any circumstances we cannot set off on the road of mutual ultimatums."
A senior official with ARS said the Russian government had been dragging its feet on the deal with De Beers but he thought a deal would come in 1997.
Interfax quoted Lev Safonov, first vice president of the company, as saying that if an interim agreement were broken off before a new deal was in place, the two sides would conduct trade under "other conditions".
Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus said on Thursday his ruling Civic Democratic Party (ODS) would end the governing coalition if his partners backed opposition plans to lower the pension age and boost farm subsidies.
In a blistering statement aimed not only at the opposition Social Democrats, but also his party's centrist coalition partners, the Christian Democrats (KDU-CSL), Klaus warned of a potential collapse of Czech post-Communist reforms if the plans were adopted.
Klaus said that "laws were in play whose approval we would interpret as a basic threat to the very basics of the (post-Communist economic) transformation."
It said approval of Social Democrat plans would be "something in which we could not participate, and we would have to leave the government."
It also said that steps by KDU-CSL to push through their candidate as chairman in the new Senate, as well as KDU-CSL's voting with the opposition on the new pension proposal violated the agreement which formed the coalition minority government.
ODS also objected to a plan put forward by the Social Democrats, the largest of three opposition parties, to boost state intervention to help support agriculture.
Klaus's party, which lays claim to the blueprint for the fiscal prudence and currency stability which has given the country the best investment ratings in post-Communist Europe, warned that the proposals could have devastating effects.
"We consider the current political situation in our country to be very serious, and unprecedented in a certain sense," Klaus said in a preamble to the statement.
"If these laws are passed and the threatening development happens, it would mean an imbalance and burden for the budget, and demands on the taxpayers, which we consider to be absolutely impossible and unbearable," it said.
Before falling two seats short of a majority in the 200-seat lower house of parliament in June, Governments led by Klaus approved five consecutive balanced budgets, although the 1996 account expects to actually end with a roughly 1.2 billion crowns deficit, due to lagging tax collection.
The government was able to push through its 1997 balanced budget plan last week after two Social Democrats voted with the government, and then were sacked by their party for it.
The Czech agency CTK later quoted KDU-CSL chairman Josef Lux as saying that the ODS statement did not respond to reality and his party rejected such threats, but he added that he did not see it as a signal to end the coalition.
The lower house recently agreed to continue debate -- in the first of three required readings in parliament -- on a Social Democrat proposal which would lower the retirement age to 60 years for men and 53 to 57 for women.
The plan would replace a government programme to gradually raise the pension age.
Parliament last year had approved the plan of Klaus's then-majority coalition government to raise the retirement age as a way to head off an expected crisis in financing pensions in the long term.
The soonest any of the new controversial proposals could go to parliament for a second reading would be in its February session. They must still have two more readings in the lower house, and then be confirmed by the new upper house.
The government plan, effective at the beginning of this year, sets out a gradual raising of the pension age until the 2007 when the official age would be 62 for men and 60 across the board for women, unifying a system which once allowed women with children to take an earlier retirement.
It has begun to gradually change from the Communist-era schedule of 60 years for men and 54 to 57 for women.
The head of war-torn Chechnya's oil company said on Thursday that Russia's rebellious region would guarantee the safety of a major oil pipeline across its land but demanded a cut in foreign deals that will use the link.
Khozhakhmed Yarikhanov, president of the Southern Oil Company, which is based in the devastated capital Grozny, told a news conference that an $8 billion multinational consortium that will use the link to export oil in 1997 should not worry because the pipeline was safe and sound.
"We guarantee the link's safety," he said. "But remember that with pipelines all over the world, things sometimes happen -- sabotage, technical errors, human errors."
He said Chechnya should get a cut from transit fees via the so-called northern link, which can carry 17 million tonnes of oil a year.
"The Chechen part is approximately in the same condition as the rest of the link," he said, referring to the stretch running through Grozny and linking the Azeri capital Baku to Russia's Black Sea oil export outlet of Novorossiisk.
The 13 international oil companies in the Azerbaijan International Operating Company plan to reverse the flow of the pipeline to ship up to 100,000 barrels per day (bpd) of early oil from their Caspian offshore projects near Baku from August 1997.
The consortium is led by an alliance of British Petroleum Plc and Norway's Statoil.
Protracted bloodshed and instability in the 21-month Chechen conflict have given the consortium the jitters ever since Moscow sent troops into Grozny in December 1994 in a bloody bid to rein in the breakaway region.
The oil firms, worried that exports from their big ticket investments could fall prey to a separatist war, have access to a second export route via the former Soviet republic of Georgia.
Underscoring the fragility of the region for oil investors, six foreigners working with the International Committee of the Red Cross were shot dead at a Chechen hospital on Wednesday and six ethnic Russians were killed on Thursday.
Yarikhanov, who said he had faced a cool reception at Russia's Transneft oil pipeline monopoly, which owns and operates the pipeline, and at the Fuel and Energy Ministry, said Moscow was not doing enough to resurrect the region's once-glorious oil sector.
While he said the pipeline was no worse for the war, Chechnya's production and refining facilities had been laid waste.
At least eight trillion roubles ($1.44 billion) were needed to bring the facilities back on line. Yarikhanov said financing could come from a Chechen cut in the transport fees that the Azeri oil consortium will pay to ship oil via Chechnya.
"We want our share of profits from the transport of oil across our country," he said, adding the Azeri group would pay $16.57 per tonne to send oil from its Caspian Sea platforms near Baku to Novorossiisk.
The Azeri oil consortium also includes Azeri state firm SOCAR, Amoco Corp, Pennzoil Co, Unocal Corp, Exxon Corp, Ramco Energy Plc, Russia's LUKoil, Turkish TRAO, McDermott International Inc, Itochu Corp and Saudi Arabia's Delta Nimir.
The Southern Oil Company, also called the Chechen Oil Company, had hoped to stabilise output at three to four million tonnes a year before the breakaway region descended into bloodshed.
Chechnya accounted for one-third of Soviet oil production in the 1970s, or around 22 million tonnes a year, before Moscow began tapping its massive Siberian reserves.
Refining capacity in the south Caucasian region is 20-22 million tonnes a year, but operations have ceased.
($1=5549 Rouble)
Slower-than-expected third quarter economic growth might force the Czech National Bank (CNB) to make a modest interest rate cut early next year, but analysts said the priority would still be to fight inflation.
The Czech Statistical Bureau (CSU) said on Thursday that third quarter gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 3.6 percent year-on-year, putting GDP 4.0 percent higher for the first three quarters of 1996.
A Reuter survey of economists on Wednesday had predicted growth for the first three quarters of 1996 of about 4.2 percent, slowing from the official 4.3 percent for the first six months, and 4.8 percent for the whole of 1995.
Analysts said that the real figures, when combined with recent results showing a rapid slowing of money supply growth, proved that while the Czech National Bank's (CNB) mid-year tightening had been effective, it may have gone too far.
"This turned out to be somewhat worse than we hoped...we do expect a slight cut in rates early next year. I think we'll wait just to see the development of prices in January," said economist Radek Maly at Citibank Prague.
Inflation has been stubborn in 1996, with the annual rate hovering above nine percent until recent months. But by November, inflation had slowed to 8.6 percent, year-on-year.
Maly however added that he expected "the central bank still will be looking more after inflation than growth".
He said the government should consider ending incremental price deregulations on energy and rents and instead quickly lift the controls to allow inflation to settle to its core rate, and allow for longer-term investment planning.
The key measure of money supply growth, M2, slowed to 13.8 percent, year-on-year, by the end of September from over 20 percent earlier in the year.
That came after the CNB's hiked its discount rate a full percentage point to 10.5 percent in June and raised minimum reserve requirements to 11.5 percent from 8.5. The M2 rate then slowed to 11.4 percent by the end of October.
"The interest rates are really high, that's why the tight monetary policy is working and slowing the growth," said Petr Kukla, a foreign currency dealer at Girocredit Banka in Prague.
"We will have to wait probably for the beginning of the second half of the next year so that the GDP can improve together with a rate cut," he said.
Domestic demand remained strong but flat at 5.2 percent for the latest quarter, and 5.3 percent for the nine-month period, but well below 1995 levels.
A major harness on growth expansion has been relatively stagnant exports, stifled by the slowdown in demand in western Europe and especially neighbouring Germany.
"The most dynamic growth influence, as it was in the first half, was the development of trade," the CSU said in its statement.
In the third quarter, the CSU said, imports were 222.9 billion crowns, a year-on-year increase of some 21.8 percent.
Imports for the first three quarters totalled 618.0 billion crowns, an increase of 14.7 percent over the previous year.
Meanwhile, the CSU said third quarter exports grew by 6.1 percent, year-on-year, to 183.7 billion crowns, putting the three-quarter combined total at 529.9 billion crowns, or 5.1 percent.
"In the area of foreign trade, dynamic growth in the importing of goods and services was seen, with the yearly growth accelerating from 9.4 percent in the first quarter to 21.8 percent in the third quarter," the statement said.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
A leading Colombian coffee official on Wednesday played down a potential rift with Brazil over a call to expand the Association of Coffee Producing Countries' (ACPC) export retention plan.
John Naranjo, commercial manager of Colombia's national Coffee Growers' Federation said no decision would be taken on the plan, put forward by African producers earlier this month, until an emergency ACPC meeting in Brazil in January.
So far Brazilian traders have been cool in their reaction to the suggestion. One Brazilian exporter, who did not wish to be named, has even said it may be part of a bluff by Colombia which, he added, "was showing signs of not having the coffee it says it has".
Under the terms of the retention plan -- designed to reduce inventories in consumer countries, thereby increasing the bargaining power of exporters -- ACPC members agreed in May to limit green coffee exports to June 1997 to 53.5 million 60-kg sacks.  
But during their December 11 visit to Colombia, Ivory Coast Commodities Minister Guy-Alain Gauza and Abel Rwendeire of Uganda called for an additional cut of 2.5 million 60-kg sacks in the first half of next year -- a call backed by Colombia.
"I don't think our suggestion is unreasonable. There's a meeting towards the end of January and at that we will take a final decision. This will give the Brazilians a little more time to understand what the Colombian proposal is," Naranjo told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Colombia is forecast to export 11.5 million 60-kg sacks in the 1996-97 coffee year, according to the National Coffee Growers' Federation head Jorge Cardenas.
It is not fully clear what impact an increase in the ACPC export retention plan would have on Colombia's exports in the first half of 1997.
"The retention will not be proportional across ACPC member nations. It is more directed at coffee quality and will affect Robusta most. We cannot say how much Colombia would have to retain until we work out the exact division in January. But of course we would have no difficulty meeting our export commitments whether this measure was finally approved or not," Naranjo said.  
On the home front, meanwhile, 1997 is predicted to be a year of "profound transition and adjustments" in Colombia's embattled coffee sector, according to Armando Montenegro, head of the National Association of Financial Institutions (ANIF).
"There will be many coffee growers who quit the sector, which is in a transition from a large sector to a smaller and more competitive sector which is not easy," Montenegro said.
Throughout 1996, Colombia's coffee growers have been hard hit by the strengthening peso, their continuing battle against the coffee borer bug and high interest rates.
Those problems could worsen in 1997 after the National Coffee Growers' Federation announced on December 5 it would cut immediately the internal coffee price by 14,000 pesos per 125-kg load in a move designed to save the Coffee Fund it administers an estimated $70 million.
The fund, which guarantees to buy all Colombia's coffee crop at a fixed price, is nevertheless expected to rack up deficits of almost $400 million by next September.
The government has accepted that many coffee growers may be forced out of business and labourers will be left without work. It has said it will back a restructuring programme but has not yet announced a budget for the programme.
Latin America's oldest and largest guerrilla army on Wednesday hailed a Peruvian rebel group's storming of the Japanese ambassador's residence in Lima as a "spectacular and well-planned" attack.
Marco Leon Calarca, the international spokesman, based in Mexico City, of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), defended the actions of Peru's Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA), which launched the raid on Tuesday night.
He said armed struggle was often the only way to break the bonds of poverty imposed by an oligarchic system.
The Colombian authorities say the formerly pro-Soviet FARC numbers about 12,000 fighters. Independent political analysts say it has more than 18,000. The Cuban-inspired MRTA is thought to have no more than about 2,000 insurgents.
"The MRTA attack was spectacular and well-planned, which suggests it does have popular support. The MRTA, like all peoples of the world, has every right to fight by all means for basic rights," Calarca told Reuters in a phone interview from Mexico.
"People cannot be driven into extreme poverty without putting up a fight. They must defend themselves from the aggression of neoliberalism. The oligarchy is not simply going to hand over those rights," he added.
Members of the MRTA travelled to Colombia in the mid-1980s to fight in the so-called America Battalion, which also consisted of Colombia's leftist M-19 rebel group and Ecuador's Alfaro Vive Carajo! The battalion launched a failed attempt to create rebel liberated zones in Colombia, starting with the southwestern city of Cali. The FARC never joined the battalion because of military and political differences.
The FARC was set up in 1964 by Communists who had fought with self-defence forces set up by the Liberal Party during 10 years of virtual civil war that started in 1948. The government now accuses it of living off a vast fortune gleaned from kidnapping, extortion and drug trafficking.
It launched one of its bloodiest offensives in August, when it killed 27 soldiers and captured 60 in an attack on a jungle base in southern Colombia. It still has not released those captives.
Hong Kong's leader-in-waiting Tung Chee-hwa returned on Thursday from meeting Chinese leaders in Beijing and pledged to get down to the serious work of shaping his administration.
Tung, a former shipping magnate, also said he won reassurances from Beijing that the territory would enjoy a high degree of autonomy after Britain hands it back to China next June 30, after 150 years of British colonial rule.
"After receiving my appointment, I'll have to face many pressing tasks ahead, meeting the governor, the chief secretary Anson Chan, picking my team," Tung told reporters.
One of Tung's foremost tasks is to form an advisory cabinet called the Executive Council and to decide which senior civil servants to keep after the handover.
"But I haven't got specific dates as I've just arrived," he said, when pressed for details on his future team.
"I'm delighted the Chinese central leadership has time and again assured me...Hong Kong must have a high degree of autonomy and Hong Kong people would truly govern Hong Kong," the chief executive designate said.
Tung's popularity ratings have soared since he was picked by the Beijing-controlled Selection Commitee as the territory's Chief Executive.
A poll, conducted by the University of Hong Kong after Tung's selection on December 11, showed his popularity rating at a record high of 70.1 points.
But Tung, flanked at the airport by Zhang Junsheng, a vice director of Xinhua, China's de facto mission in Hong Kong, fought back at critics who say he would merely be Beijing's yes-man.
"I'm not the conquering hero, neither am I subdued" he said.
Tung hinted he might soon get legal endorsement for a China-backed provisional legislature which Beijing intends to put in place of the territory's current elected legislature.
"I've said many times before I believe the provisional legislature is legal...it would be nice if (China's) National Peoples' Congress could reaffirm this one more time," he said.
The legislature is to be formed this Saturday by the 400-member Selection Commitee that is meeting over the border in the city of Shenzhen in case of any legal challenge in the Hong Kong courts.
Tung also urged civil servants to stay on after the handover.
"Many senior Chinese leaders are concerned about civil servants staying on, to have a stable transition. I myself have said I hope they can stay on," he said.
China's domestic A shares continued to plummet on Thursday with investor confidence still in tatters following the rude shock of a government crackdown on the markets on Monday, traders said.
Shanghai's foreign currency B share index ended little changed at 64.343 points with bargain-hunting support prices, but A shares on the market fell 7.54 percent to 940.548.
On the Shenzhen stock market next to Hong Kong, the A share index plunged 8.7 percent to 357.85 points, while the B shares were also down sharply, losing 5.42 percent to 126.54 points.
"A growing number of investors want to leave the A and B markets, at least for a while," a Shenzhen trader said.
Brokers said Shanghai A shares plunged on unstable market sentiment and reported seeing some panic selling on rumours that more negative market news could be announced at the weekend.
"Retail investors used the opportunity of a technical rebound on Wednesday to offset their positions," said one broker. "Sentiment is still weak."
The Shanghai B share market is looking the healthiest of the China share markets in the wake of the crackdown in which the Beijing authorities said stock trading was overheated and warned of a crash if speculative trading was not stopped.
"Technical charts show the B share index is likely to consolidate between 63 and 65 points in the short term with investors targeting stocks with strong profits records," a second broker said.
Inner Mongolia Erdos Cashmere was the star on expectation of good results, rising $0.052 or 9.84 percent to $0.580, on volume of 1.7 million shares.
Shanghai Tyre &amp; Rubber followed on institutional buying, up $0.034 or 8.21 percent to $0.448, on volume of 1.2 million shares.
In Shenzhen, brokers said the market was hit by institutions taking profits on the B share market with investors still jittery over Beijing's crackdown.
"Investors offset their positions whenever prices rose because they have little confidence in the market's short-term outlook after the falls earlier this week," an analyst said.
Many Shanghai B shares closed at the 10 percent limit-down with Dadonghai falling HK$0.36 to HK$3.20 on volume of 5.84 million shares on institutional selling, brokers said.
Changan Automobile traded the most on volume of 11.86 million shares, losing HK$0.20 to HK$3.55.
The A market plummeted with the majority of A shares closing at the 10 percent limit-down due to heavy selling in "rubbish stocks" -- shares of smaller firms with poor business results over the past few years, brokers said.
One Shenzhen broker predicted that the A shares could have a long way further to fall given their strong gains in the past few months.
But several Shenzhen counters with strong earnings records were seen being supported by institutional demand, brokers said.
Guangdong Power's A shares rose 0.93 yuan or 5.72 percent to 13.49 yuan, with its B shares up HK$0.35 or 6.36 percent to HK$5.85 per share, making them the best performers on the city's A and B share markets on Thursday.
Television and Hollywood moguls on Thursday formally unveiled their controversial system to rate TV programmes, ushering in a new era meant to enable parents to control their kids' viewing habits better.
Broadcast and cable-TV networks will begin displaying the six ratings categories at the start of shows as soon as Jan. 2. The ratings will appear briefly as a small icon in the upper left-hand corner of the TV screen.
The age-based system is similar to the 28-year-old motion-picture industry ratings and will apply to nearly all shows, including cartoons and talk shows. News and sports programmes will be exempted.
President Bill Clinton, appearing in the Oval Office with leading TV and Hollywood executives, called the new ratings a "huge step forward over what we have now, which is nothing."
While not endorsing the system, Clinton said the ratings "are going to give America's families more help in choosing appropriate television programming for their children."
Even before its unveiling, the system had drawn flak from lawmakers, parent groups, children's advocates, educators and others. They want the ratings content-based, specifying the level of sex, violence and strong language.
The ratings are: TV-G for suitable for all ages; TV-PG for parental guidance suggested; TV-14 for parents of children under 14 strongly cautioned; TV-M for mature audiences only and two categories applying to children's shows: TV-Y for all children and TV-Y7 for kids seven and older.
Executives said they expected programmes such as "Hard Copy" and "Entertainment Tonight" to receive ratings instead of being exempted as bona fide news programmes.
"Our goal was to create TV parental guidelines which would be simple to use, easy to understand and handy to find, and we have accomplished it," said Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America and head of the group that developed the television ratings.
The group included representatives from the broadcast and cable-TV industries and Hollywood. "We don't claim any divine inspiration," Valenti told a news conference, adding that the system was "not written in stone." Industry executives plan to review the ratings over the next few months.
"What we are presenting is our best offer," Valenti said.
Networks and producers will rate their own shows, unlike the movie industry, where an independent panel rates films. TV executives argue they have far more programmes to rate, with up to 2,000 hours a day of shows, equivalent to about 1,000 movies a day.
Critics, while welcoming the system, say it is vague, does not go far enough and will prove unhelpful to parents. Child advocacy, public health, religious and education groups plan a campaign to see that a content-based system is developed. They favour an approach in which letters such as V, S and L are used to denote the level of violence, sex and bad language.
"The system which they propose is too complicted. It's too vague. It doesn't give parents the information which they need in their homes for their kids," said Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts and a vocal critic of the TV industry plan. He called on the industry to test both the aged-based and content-based systems side by side in the home.
But industry officials said a content-based plan would be unwieldly. They said their own system would be more practical for parents, and more convenient for newspapers to print.
The ratings stem from the telecommunications law enacted in February that requires new TV sets to include a "V-chip." The technology, expected to be available in a year or so, will be used in conjunction with the ratings and allow parents to screen out programmes they do not want their children to watch.
Clinton last week gave the system a conditional green light, saying critics should allow the TV industry to test the ratings for 10 months before demanding changes.
Top officials at the Federal Communications Commission will review the ratings over the next few weeks. Under the telecommunications law, the FCC must set up an advisory panel to devise a ratings system if the industry fails within a year to craft an "acceptable" plan.
Valenti vowed to fight any government-imposed system in court on First Amendment free speech grounds.
The burger battle will stay hot next year as fast-food chains test new recipes and cook up promotions to draw more customers into their eateries -- and away from each other.
McDonald's Corp. dominates the landscape with about 12,000 U.S. restaurants and more than 20,000 worldwide. But in spite of a new menu, its U.S. same-store sales, measuring sales from restaurants open at least a year, have been shrinking.
"This will be their sixth consecutive quarter of lower comps (same store sales) in the U.S.," Dean Witter analyst David Adelman said, referring to the fourth quarter of 1996.
Wendy's International Inc., on the other hand, has seen U.S. same store sales rise 5 percent to 6 percent in the fourth quarter, following an 8 percent gain in the third quarter. Spokesman Denny Lynch declined to comment.
"Wendy's..., although their margins have been squeezed, has the best traffic of the big three," said Roger Lipton of Lipton Financial Services.
Wendy's has about 4,425 U.S. restaurants and 4,925 worldwide.
Burger King, a unit of Grand Metropolitan Plc, said its U.S. same-store sales rose 2.6 percent for fiscal 1996 ended Sept. 30.
Burger King had 8,696 restaurants worldwide at the end of fiscal 1996, including more than 6,600 in the United States.
At this point, Wendy's may have the most significant new product offering in 1997, fresh pita sandwichs containing grilled chicken and salads. They are being tested in 11 U.S. markets and may be rolled out nationally next year, analysts said.
"It's being given very serious consideration," Lynch said of pita sandwiches. "We're very pleased with the test."
Adelman said he expected the pita sandwich to be launched in the United States later in 1997, adding, "That's going to be a material event for (Wendy's)."
In 1996, McDonald's stole the menu spotlight by introducing its Arch Deluxe hamburger, garnished with lettuce, tomato and a mustard-mayonnaise sauce, as well new chicken and fish deluxe sandwiches.
In spite of those new menu items, McDonald's same store sales continue to show declines compared with a year ago.
McDonald's U.S. same store sales were down in the first nine months of 1996, spokesman Chuck Ebeling said, but declined to comment on the fourth quarter.
McDonald's has blamed the drop in its U.S. same store sales in part on an intensely competitive domestic market.
Looking ahead, analysts said the most significant event for McDonald's likely will be the start of its 10-year exclusive marketing alliance with Walt Disney Co. That alliance gives McDonald's exclusive rights to marketing tie-ins, such as toy giveaways, to Disney movies.
Ebeling said the Disney alliance will be the "centerpiece" of McDonald's marketing efforts, "but not the only thing."
As for its menu, Ebeling said McDonald's will continue to focus on "delivering great food taste," but did not comment on new items.
Labour lawyer James Hoffa, refusing to concede defeat in the Teamsters union presidential election nearly a week after his opponent claimed victory, called Thursday for a congressional investigation into the vote.
Hoffa on Tuesday formally asked U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to impound the ballots and initiate an FBI investigation into "serious irregularities" in the election.
"We really have what I call Teamstergate," Hoffa told reporters at a news conference Thursday at the Teamsters' Detroit offices, where his legendary father, the late Jimmy Hoffa, ruled the union in the 1950s and '60s.
Incumbent Teamsters President Ron Carey on Saturday claimed victory in the hard-fought election, winning by an apparent margin of about 17,000 votes. But 41,002 ballots were set aside for further eligibility checks, and Hoffa says more than 25,000 other ballots may have disappeared.
After all eligible votes were tallied late Saturday, court-appointed Election Officer Barbara Zack Quindel accounted for 485,605 ballots returned. But last week she reported that the total number of mail-in ballots received was 511,268, an estimate based on receipts from the U.S. Postal Service.
Hoffa said he wants an explanation for the discrepancy between the ballots counted and the ballots received.
"If I lost, I lost. I just want a fair election," Hoffa said.
Carey, 60, was first elected president of the 1.4 million-member International Brotherhood of Teamsters as a reformer in 1991. His apparent re-election was lauded by AFL-CIO President John Sweeney, who had remained neutral during the campaign.
Meanwhile, Quindel decided Wednesday to void 120 Hoffa votes after finding that a Hoffa backer and former officer of Teamsters Local 743 in Chicago violated election rules by collecting and mailing ballots for other members, according to her spokesman, Jeff O'Mara.
Acting on a protest filed by Carey's campaign last week, O'Mara said Quindel decided it would be too extreme a remedy to void all of the local's ballots, estimated by the Carey campaign at more than 2,800.
The ballots were among 41,002 so-called challenged ballots that are still being checked for eligibility and have yet to be counted. Although there are enough of them to erase Carey's lead, Hoffa would need to carry the challenged ballots by a better than three-to-one margin for that to happen.
The election officer has not disclosed any interim results of the tabulation of the challenge ballots. O'Mara said he did not know when the tabulation would be completed.
Hoffa said Thursday, however, that initial tabulations of the challenged ballots have cut Carey's lead by as much as 2,400 votes. He did not disclose how many votes had been counted.
Britain on Thursday opened its doors to 44 new international telephone operators, saying it would create a fully open long-distance telecommunications market 12 months ahead of the rest of Europe.
U.S. telecoms giant AT&amp;T, Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel and the Global One alliance between Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom and Sprint are now among those free to compete against dominant players British Telecommunications (BT) and Mercury.
While the rest of Europe is only aiming for telecom liberalisation in 1998, a rash of new rivals -- mainly from the United States -- will be able to offer a full range of telecoms services between Britain and the rest of the world from January 1, 1997.
"The UK has proved to the world that liberalisation pushes down prices and improves services," Science and Technology Minister Ian Taylor said in a statement.
"Phone prices are down 40 percent overall since 1984, and I expect these new licensees to put further downward pressure on international rates," added Taylor, who is keen for a more open telecommunications market to attract inward investment.
In the largest single move towards opening up the international telecom market, which BT values at just under 2.0 billion pounds ($3.33 billion), 46 companies applied for licences in July, 44 of which have now been granted.
Until now, international rivals to BT and Mercury -- which is owned by Britain's second largest telecoms operator Cable and Wireless -- have only been able to operate by paying to lease lines from two British companies.
But own-facilities services are cheaper to provide.
The move may also help dampen opposition by AT&amp;T, America's largest long-distance carrier, to BT's proposed $20 billion merger with America's MCI Communications Corp.
Regulatory clearance hinges on how open the authorities deem Britain's telecom market is. With BT keen to take on the U.S., the world's largest telecoms market -- worth about $200 billion -- regulators are keen to ensure that the same competitive benefits are available to U.S. companies.
BT welcomed its new rivals, adding that it was hopeful of winning approval for its U.S. mega-merger. "This (move) indicates how open the UK market is," a spokesman said.
Analysts say that expectations of growing competition and the inevitable falling margins at home have already been discounted in telecom companies' share prices.
"This has been very well flagged," noted one.
Mobile telephone operator Vodafone Group, having clinched its licence, jumped 6.5 pence to 246.5p.
BT's shares rose four pence to 397p and Cable and Wireless' stock added 1/2p 474.5 pence by early afternoon.
Analysts have found it hard to predict how hard revenues will be hit by BT and Mercury's loss of market share as telecoms companies turn their attention overseas to help boost earnings.
But Cable and Wireless' Mercury is expected to suffer more than BT because international traffic makes up a much higher proportion of traffic -- and thus contributes a higher proportion of profits.
($1=.6003 Pound)
Following a bumper year in 1996, yet more British companies are likely to be takeover targets in 1997, but much of the merger and acquisition activity will be in the form of agreed deals, corporate financiers say.
"We certainly see the first quarter of next year being very active. There are a lot of transactions in the pipeline, a lot of activity," Rupert Faure Walker, head of corporate finance at HSBC Samuel Montagu, told Reuters.
Britain is still regarded as the European leader for takeover activity. "The markets here have always been more open than elsewhere, with not many constraints to other companies coming over here," another senior corporate financier said.
In the first nine months of 1996, 278 British companies valued at 14.4 billion pounds ($23.99 billion) were sold in cross-border deals, compared to 258 firms worth 19.1 billion pounds in the same period a year earlier.
Faure Walker said most of the deals in the pipeline were agreed rather than contested, with a number of strategic mergers reflecting industry rationalisations and cost eliminations. Others said consolidation and deconsolidation would both be driving forces behind activity in the year ahead.
ELECTION TO SET BUSINESS TEMPO
But while the outlook for the first quarter of the year looks promising for the corporate financiers who earn their fees by advising either acquirer or target, political influences are likely to colour how the market progresses, with the result of the impending general election the major force at work.
"The big thing next year is the election," said Faure Walker, adding that the election of a new goverment was likely to introduce a note of caution into the market.
This view was backed by the second corporate financier who said there could be some slowing of activity ahead of the election as companies did their best to avoid a deal being straddled across an election period.
Britain's opposition Labour party has consistently been ahead of the ruling Conservatives in the opinion polls and an election is due to be called by May.
If Labour wins, companies could take some time to adjust to the new environment and could wait until after a first Labour budget before making any significant moves. For a typical large acquisition this could result a 6-9 month period of caution, some industry players said, although others said activity was likely to continue whatever the government.
TAKEOVERS TO TAKE IN MORE SECTORS
A broader spread of takeovers, evident during 1996, is expected to run into 1997 as companies play "catch-up" after a period of caution following the recession of the early 1990s. Formerly publicly-owned utilities, including the few remaining regional electricity suppliers, will be joined by insurance brokers struggling with declining rates and a host of others.
"The inevitable reconstruction of industries will continue. The pace will quicken," the second corporate financier said.
The tendency towards agreed deals also reflected the fact that Britain's Office of Fair Trading had largely referred contested deals to the department of trade and industry (DTI) in recent months rather than agreed bids, financiers said.
REMAINING RECS SET TO FALL
In the electricity sector, the remaining privatised regional electricity companies (RECs) are viewed as likely targets for U.S. predators. Southern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity are tipped to follow recent takeover targets Northern Electric and London Electricity into U.S. hands.
With only two RECs remaining, some analysts suggest attention will now turn to the water companies, with further takeovers among them.
SMALLER FINANCIAL PLAYERS TO FEEL THE PINCH
The financial services sector is also seen as a hot-bed for further takeovers with perennials such as merchant banks Schroders, Hambros, and Robert Fleming all possible targets for larger global investment banks.
Further consolidation among small, specialist City of London and regional boutiques is also likely and Britain's dwindling club of large mutually-owned building societies could also attract attention from larger groups.
In the insurance sector Commercial Union is seen as a likely bid target or merger partner after widespread rumours suggesting talks with the financial services arm of B.A.T. It has also been linked with General Accident and Guardian Royal Exchange.
Among the insurance brokers, talk of consolidation as firms try to cut costs in the face of declining rates and overcapacity has been fuelled by recent mergers such as Lloyd Thompson and JIB. Willis Corroon and Sedgwick have long been rumoured to be possible merger or takeover candidates.
TELECOMS TO RING IN MORE CHANGES
Corporate financiers see the telecommunications and media sectors as providing significant merger activity during 1997, with Vodafone, cable group Telewest and Orange all tipped as possible targets.
There have also been suggestions that Mercury One-2-One may join Mercury Communications and that British Telecom may buy out its 40 percent partner in Cellnet. Energis, the cable company owned by National Grid, has been valued by some at 600 million pounds, while privately-owned Ionica also has long-term plans to float.
Among media companies, HTV, Yorkshire Tyne Tees and STV have all been suggested as possible targets, with Pearson an outside contender. In the growing sector of publicly quoted football clubs, Manchester United has obvious appeal.
OIL AND GAS TO REMAIN IGNITED
The demerger of British Gas into separate trading and transport firms in February has led to widespread market speculation that an oil major could be interested in buying the trading arm, to be called Centrica.
Worldwide consolidation in the oil industry is seen also affecting British firms. Smaller exploration and production firms might be eyed by the big players, all cash-rich after years of cost-cutting and keen to boost oil and gas reserves.
Other firms tipped to face takeover attempts are DIY retailer Wickes, defence to electronics group Racal, auto-components group T&amp;N, construction group Costain and Imperial Tobacco. Energy, currently part of Hanson but due to be demerged next year, is not expected to be left uncourted for long.
Britain's drink companies are entering a period of steady, organic growth which precludes any major acquisitions. But Allied Domecq, Grand Met and Guinness have been dissuaded from pursuing the idea of demergers.
The major food companies are also looking to prune their brand portfolios to allow a more concentrated marketing push behind core brands with international appeal. This strategy will involve disposal programmes and small bolt-on acquisitions.
Bass and Guinness, Associated British Foods and Tate &amp; Lyle are all sufficiently cash-rich to launch sizeable takeovers.
Netcom On-Line Communication Services Inc has decided to shift its focus to higher-value business services in search of profits, leaving the consumer sector to others.
"We've been growing at dizzying rates, what we're saying is we're going to focus more on quality here -- quality of earnings, quality of service to subscribers," Netcom Chairman and Chief Executive David Garrison said in an interview.
Despite the San Jose, Calif. company's blistering pace -- it has grown some sixfold in three years -- the sharper focus will allow it to target annualized growth in the 40-50 perent range and seek to attract customers to higher-value services.
Netcom executives said they will release further details of their new pricing plans in February, but levels will be above its current $19.95 access fee, which it is scrapping.
"We are discontinuing a line we don't think is a good deal for our customer or a good deal for our shareholders and we will replace it with other products we will announce in February. They will be at higher price points," Garrison said.  
The new services may be aimed at providing higher quality access, which Garrison noted was a source of customer concern throughout the industry, and may also include offerings which bundle software tools or online Web-hosting services.
Most consumer-oriented Internet access providers offer unlimited access to the global network for $19.95 a month -- a price that analysts say leaves little room to generate profits -- or to help offer differentiated products.
"There's so much attention around a service (at $19.95) that's getting more and more marginalized," Garrison said, adding he will leave Microsoft Corp America Online Inc and AT&amp;T Corp to wage battle over consumers.
"Seventy-five percent of our business is from people who say I want to use this as a productivity tool to help my business learn more, be faster, be more competitive," he said. "I'm going to focus on that segment instead of the consumer."
Netcom also said it expects to gain 20,000 to 30,000 new paying customers in the fourth quarter, bringing its total to about 580,000, a slower pace of growth than in the past.  
Netcom On-Line Communication Services Inc earlier said it expects to report an unspecified profit in its current, fourth quarter domestic earnings before deducting interest expense, taxes and depreciation (EBITDA).
The figure tops what Wall Street analysts had projected. Netcom Chief Financial Officer Thomas Weatherford said the year-ago fourth quarter results for the company as a whole, including overseas operations, was an EBITDA loss of $2.4 million, the majority of which was domestic.
Netcom has focussed on bringing its domestic business to profitability, while timing and extent of overseas investments make profitability of those regions hard to predict.
Wall Street consensus fourth quarter estimates had been for EBITDA for the whole company of negative $6.4 million, or an EBITDA loss of 55 cents a share, the company said.
"We have been told by analysts that they would expect that we would beat that, based on today's announcement," Garrison said. Analysts had previously expected EBITDA to turn positive in the first or second quarter of 1997.
According to First Call, analysts' mean estimate for per share final results for the fourth quarter was $1.18 prior to Wednesdays announcement, which came after the market close.  
Netcom had said after reporting third quarter results two months ago that it saw "a great opportunity" to sell to its customer base by enticing them by higher levels of service.
China said on Thursday it strongly opposed a visit to Jordan by Taiwan's foreign minister and accused its island rival of trying to disrupt Beijing's ties with other friendly states.
It also accused Taipei's leaders of lacking sincerity towards improving relations with Beijing.
"We deeply regret and express our strong dissatisfaction with Jordan and other states for allowing a visit by (Taiwan Foreign Minister) John Chang," said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang.
"We are resolutely opposed to the development of government links or any other form of official contacts with Taiwan by any states that have diplomatic ties with our country," he told a news briefing.
Taiwan's foreign minister arrived in Jordan on Wednesday in a visit shrouded in secrecy.
Jordan has diplomatic relations with China but has strong commercial ties with Taiwan.
Chang gave an economics lecture at a northern Jordanian university, sources at the university said. Jordanian government officials declined to comment on the visit.
China has viewed Taiwan as a rebel province since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949 and has not ruled out the use of force to recover the island.
It has tried to isolate Taiwan by insisting the island was not entitled to formal relations with foreign states.
Taiwanese media said Chang, who left Taiwan earlier this week, was travelling to Abu Dhabi and Jordan, en route to Italy.
The trip is one of four overseas damage-control missions planned by top Taiwan officials since South Africa, Taipei's largest ally, declared last month it would switch ties to Beijing by the end of next year.
"Taiwan authorities are trying to disrupt our friendly relations with other states," Shen said, repeating Beijing's frequent accusation that Taiwan was trying to create "two Chinas".
"Taiwan's leaders...lacked sincerity towards improving relations between the two sides," Shen said.
Taiwan's leaders had taken a negative attitude towards improving economic and trade ties with the mainland and this would not help improve relations, he said.
Expertise ranging from snack packaging design to nuclear waste disposal and the destruction of chemical weapons was put up for sale Monday as the UK government embarked on what may be its last privatisation venture, the sale of AEA Technology Plc.
Trade and industry secretary Ian Lang will be hoping to swell Treasury coffers by around 200 million pounds ($312.7 million) through the disposal of 100 per cent of the Oxfordshire-based group, which is a spin-off from the Atomic Energy Authority, at the end of September.
With a general election looming the sale immediately ran into a political row over the government's decision to keep its "golden share" in AEA Technology, allowing it to veto an unwelcome takeover attempt, for just three years.
The opposition Labour Party cited "security implications" over AEA Technology's role in monitoring UK nuclear submarine safety, and sources told Reuters that Labour will consider extending the veto if it wins power.
At a distinctly low-tech launch for the pathfinder prospectus, AEA Technology chief executive Peter Watson shrugged off the embarrassment of a malfunctioning slide projector to explain that the group "is all about taking technology to market and converting science to profit."
Watson could easily have a sign on his desk reading "no job is too big or too small" for AEA Technology, whose interests have spread far beyond the state-owned nuclear industry which spawned it in the 1940s.
Work such as decommissioning nuclear plants and offering safety expertise worldwide, including at the site of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in the Ukraine, accounted for just over half its 253.3 million stg of sales in the year to March.
But Watson is keen to stress success in using the group's 3,500 employees to solve a plethora of scientific conundrums, including doubling the life of batteries for Sony Corp mobile phones, helping Subaru win the World Rally Championship  and assisting the U.S. with the destruction of chemical weapons.
"And we are helping a client to research an improved crisp (potato chip) packet," Watson added.
AEA Technology hopes to persuade would-be investors, expected to be institutions rather than the army of small investors which bought into the likes of British Gas Plc and British Telecom Plc, that sales growth is about to take off after three static years, which it attributes to a drop in reliance on government contracts.
With most cost-cutting behind it, Watson told Reuters he wants to lift foreign sales to one-third of the total from just over one-fifth and take advantage of a growing trend for major companies like SmithKline Beecham Plc to outsource research to help drive pretax profit up from the 15.8 million pounds seen in the year to March. ($1=.6396 Pound)
Russia's aluminium industry, in private hands and learning market-savvy moves in ways its former state owners never could, still holds surprise cards but may no longer terrorise world markets with sudden, secret exports.
Metals analysts said on Friday that Russia, which accounts for about 15 percent of world output, would not cut production or exports in 1997 even in the face of rising costs at home, low margins and weak world prices.
Instead, smelters -- now mostly in private hands after years of turbulent shareholder battles -- would do all they could to turn profits.
"What has happened over the last year in particular is that ownership has settled down so that you can be fairly sure of the conduits of the smelters' metal," said a senior London metals trader who declined to be identified.
"They will continue to sell the metal, come what may."
Russia, fresh off a two-year global output cutting agreement that expired this spring, seized the opportunity to restart some idled capacity and increase exports.
The increases laid to rest market talk that Russia wanted to craft a new output cutting deal to boost low London Metal Exchange prices. But analysts still wonder how much Russian aluminium could flood onto sensitive markets.
Asked if Russia had learned anything from the March 1994 memorandum of understanding that reduced global output 10 percent to draw down bloated stocks, the senior London source said, "It has not learned. I don't think they care."
Igor Prokopov, director of Kontsern Alyuminiy, the producers' group uniting Russia's aluminium industry, said 1996 primary aluminium output would rise 1.5 percent from 1995 to 2.79 million tonnes.
Production could rise another 1.5 to 2.0 percent in 1997.
The group put Russian 1996 primary aluminium exports at 2.37 million tonnes, against what it said were 2.11 million in 1995.
"Some noise has appeared in the West that Russia has cranked things up, which is not really true," Prokopov said.
But two base metals analysts said the figures seemed on the low side and Russian smelters had undoubtedly increased output.
But they have done so while consolidating sales operations to try to make more money on exports, which has introduced more transparency into deliveries abroad.
Shareholders, many of them Western commodities power houses, were having a greater hand in that transparency, since they were increasingly buying direct from smelters.
Pechiney of France, Glencore AG of Switzerland and London-based powerhouse Trans-World Metals and its units already have major stakes in Russian smelters.
Analysts said the Bratsk smelter, the world's largest, with annual capacity of about 850,000 tonnes, had major plans to modernise with the help of a top European industrial firm.
LME three-month aluminium futures are around $1,550 a tonne, clawing back from October's 2-1/2 year low of $1,305 but below a $2,195 in January 1995, the last major peak.
Prices had been even lower before Russia and five other countries -- the United States, Canada, Australia, Norway and the European Union -- signed the 1994 accord. The five said Russia was to blame because it had flooded markets with metal.
Those exports were largely orchestrated by the state, which needed cash to fill its coffers.
Now smelters say they are reining in trade and marketing operations to be closer to markets in a way that Soviet-style ministries in Moscow were not.
"Integration could have a positive affect," Prokopov said, citing expense rationalisation and consolidated balances.
Russia is an aluminium powerhouse because its Siberian smelters, which account for 90 percent of output, have endless, cheap hydroelectricity generated by rivers.
Germany and the Czech Republic on Friday concluded nearly two years of sensitive talks on a joint declaration aimed at finally healing the wounds of World War Two and the communist era that followed.
German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel and his Czech counterpart Josef Zieleniec signed a protocol which sends forward a text expressing regret for injustices on both sides, and setting up a fund for joint projects.
The declaration expresses Bonn's sorrow for the 1938-45 Nazi occupation of the Czech lands and Prague's regret for Czech brutality in the post-war expulsion of ethnic Germans.
It marks Germany's final reconciliation with neighbours who fell under Nazi occupation.
"We Germans regret the suffering and injustice caused to the Czech people by National-Socialist (Nazi) crimes, and we are recognising our responsibility," Kinkel told diplomats and journalists after signing the protocol.
The text was approved by both governments earlier this week, and is to be signed by prime ministers in January, but politicians on both sides of the border are calling for changes before parliaments and presidents give it their final approval.
Both Kinkel and Zielenec insisted the text would not be reopened for negotiation.
Czech opponents of the text claim it fails to pay direct compensation to victims of Nazi agression, while German groups are furious that it avoids paying restitution for Prague's expropriation of property of the so-called Sudeten Germans.
The declaration sets up a Czech-German Future Fund with the German side paying in 140 million marks ($90 million), and the Czechs paying about one-seventh of that.
The text says the fund is to finance "projects of common interest" including joint environmental, historical, and scientific ones, adding that "the projects, wherever appropriate, should work mainly for the benefit of victims of (Nazi) violence."
"The declaration which we have agreed on means simply a clarification of understanding," Zieleniec said.
"This declaration is not a full stop after history. It only closes one sentence and one paragraph. It also is a semi-colon and starts a discussion on the topic of joint projects focused on the future," he added.
The main political critic in Germany is the Bavarian-based Christian Social Union (CSU) which acts as mentor to the Sudeten Germans, survivors and relatives of the 2.5 million ethnic Germans who were collectively blamed for the Nazi occupation and summarily driven out.
Leaders of Bavaria, where most Sudetens settled, had demanded changes in the text, but the Czech government has insisted it will negotiate only with Bonn.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl is due to sign the declaration with Czech Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus in January and the presidents of the two countries will then address each other's parliaments to seal the matter.
A major German daily newspaper, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, on Friday called the declaration a political sham.
"Perhaps one day there will be a German-Czech declaration which in its honesty and sincerity does provide a historic sign of reconciliation," the daily said in a commentary.
"The great majority of the Czech nation, above all the great majority of politicians, is convinced that the Czechoslovak state was not only politically clever but also morally and legally in the right when it got rid of the German minority." ($1=1.5570 Mark)
Russia's aluminium sector will consolidate more in 1997 as domestic smelters, perplexed by limp world prices, seek to rationalise costs, a top aluminium official said on Friday.
Igor Prokopov, director of Kontsern Alyuminiy, the producers' group uniting Russia's aluminium industry, said in an interview that domestic smelters were worried about low metals prices, and he blamed what he said was speculation.
"We have been concerned by the sharp fall in prices, which is why we set up the statistical body with other major producing nations to exchange information," he said.
"But our conclusion is that the market situation is not a catastrophe. We are not going to stop output and will continue next year with at least our 1996 volumes."
He said Russian primary aluminium output this year would be 2.79 million tonnes, a 1.5 percent increase on 1995's level, and 1997 production could rise by 1.5 to 2.0 percent.
The group sees Russia's 1996 primary aluminium exports at 2.37 million tonnes compared with 2.11 million in 1995. Prokopov declined to forecast 1997 exports.
Kontsern Alyuminiy said exports of primary aluminium, alloys and semi-fabricated items over January-October had already risen seven percent from year-ago levels.
The State Customs Committee puts the rise at 16 percent.
Prokopov said he was confused by low London Metal Exchange prices and said he saw no basis for weak prices in view of supply and demand patterns.
"I can't prove there's speculation going on, but I look at the charts and these are what the facts lead me to think."
"Some noise has appeared in the West that Russia has cranked things up, which is not really true. There's no reason for the fall in prices," he said, citing lower world stocks.
But he said Russia's survival as an aluminium power was not in question, since the Siberian smelters, accounting for 90 percent of output, had captive, plentiful sources of hydroelectricity, a main cost in production.
Depressed prices would be the motor for Russian smelters to consolidate operations as they completed their transition from state-run enterprises to market-nimble corporations.
"The Russian aluminium industry should be consolidated and act as a large transnational company like Alcoa or Pechiney," Prokopov said. "We won't be like Gazprom," he said, referring to the natural gas monopoly. "But there will be three or four teams that will act on world markets."
The process has already started. Siberian Aluminium, a so-called financial industrial group, includes Bratsk -- the world's biggest smelter -- and Sayansk, Trans-World Group, Zalogbank, and Kazakhstan's Pavlodar alumina plant.
The Krasnoyarsk smelter is in a group with the Achinsk alumina plant and wants to bring Ukraine's Nikolayevskiy alumina plant on board.
"Integration could have a positive affect," Prokopov said. "It will lead to expense rationalisation, lower costs and consolidated balances. Smelters are in a satisfactory state, but we want better -- we want more resources to modernise them."
-- Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520
The general who led a bloody assault on Colombia's Supreme Court to quell leftist rebels holding 300 hostages in 1985 said on Friday that an attack was an option to end the Japanese embassy residence siege in Lima.
Gen. Jesus Armando Arias said Peru's President Alberto Fujimori should not cave in to the demands of the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA) to free jailed comrades.
Elite forces from the United States, Israel or Britain could flush out the rebels with a "minimum of bloodshed" if they refused to negotiate, Arias told Reuters.
More than 100 people, mostly hostages and including 11 top judges, died in the 27-hour battle Arias led to dislodge M-19 guerrillas from Bogota's Palace of Justice in Nov. 1985.
"Training techniques have progressed rapidly and there are elite forces that have the ability to seize back the (Japanese embassy residence in Lima) with the minimum of blood and damage," Arias said in a phone interview.
"But given the strong international interests in this case the Peruvian government should try to negotiate and reach an agreement. Bowing to the MRTA's demands on releasing prisoners would, however, set a dangerous legal precedent," he said.
Arias, who now teaches at a military academy, said he still believed the assault he led was the correct tactic. "The M-19 broke in killing people right, left and centre. We could only respond in kind to that type of violence," he said.
Television images showed tanks firing 90mm shells into the courts building before smashing down the steel entrance doors remain vivid. Dynamite and automatic weapons fire reduced the interior of the building to rubble. More than 11 years later it has still not been fully reconstructed.
Another official involved in that incident, former Justice Minister Enrique Parejo, said the Colombian military ignored the government's orders and went ahead with the assault. He said Fujimori must keep a tight control on Peru's military if he wanted to avoid another bloodbath.
Five years before the Palace of Justice attack, the M-19 stormed the Dominican embassy in Bogota. It held 57 hostages, including 19 diplomats, for 61 days before Fidel Castro intervened and negotiated the rebels' safe passage to Cuba.
The M-19 leader who led the Dominican embassy siege, Rosemberg Pavon, called on the MRTA earlier this week to keep its cool and offered to act as go-between in the Lima drama.
Australian resources and steel group The Broken Hill Pty Co. (BHP) posted a 9.8-percent fall in first-half profits Friday, disappointing the share market but avoiding another mauling by investors.
BHP, whose shares have been hammered since its key markets in steel and copper turned sour six months ago, posted a A$790 million ($628 million) net profit for the six months to Nov. 30, down from A$867 ($689.3 million) for the year-ago period.
But Australia's largest-quoted company had its bottom line boosted by an abnormal gain of A$107 million ($85 million) and investors were initially not impressed.
"It's pretty lousy," said one fund manager's stock analyst. Another analyst disappointed with the result said the resources giant was still on track for a modest profit recovery for the full year to May 31, 1997.
Though BHP's battered copper division showed improvement, with the North American copper operations swinging back into profit, analysts had expected a first-half group operating profits of around A$760 million ($604.2 million).
Instead, BHP's operating profits fell 15.8 percent from the year-ago period to A$683 million ($543.0 million).
But managing director John Prescott said the second-quarter figures showed faster improvement in performance and that, despite weak copper and steel prices, the group was still investing in future growth.
Citing a sharp jump in exploration expenditure in the half year, he told reporters: "That's an important part of sustaining our growth."
Including abnormals, BHP's minerals, copper and steel divisions all contributed higher earnings in the latest three months against the August quarter. The steel division's earnings were flat.
Petroleum was the biggest earner with A$253 million ($201.1 million), but this included an abnormal gain of A$107 million ($85 million) from the settlement of a dispute over a gas resource tax.
BHP Petroleum's operating profits also included a A$82 million ($65.2 million) windfall from asset sales and a larger than expected exploration expense.
BHP's minerals division, a major world producer of iron ore and coal, doubled its contribution to profit in the second quarter to A$154 million ($122.4 million), due largely to higher world prices.
BHP Copper benefitted from a recent firming in the copper price and a cut of 7 U.S. cents per pound in its North American operating costs to post a second-quarter profit of A$132 million ($104.9 million), up from A$85 million ($67.6 million) in the first quarter.
The U.S. copper operations, acquired last January with the US$2.4 billion ($1.9 billion) purchase of Magma Copper, made a loss on a full-cost basis in the first quarter. Prescott said Friday Magma had swung back into profit in the second quarter.
BHP Steel's second-quarter profit was flat at A$90 million ($71.6 million).
If the weather cooperates, U.S. retailers expect this weekend to cap a holiday shopping season that looks moderately better than last year's, despite being shorter by five days.
"This weekend is crucial," said Prudential Securities retail analyst Wayne Hood in Atlanta. "With the snow and cold weather, it's a little too early to tell. ... But on balance, it should be a better holiday sales season than last year."
Warmer weather is forecast for much of the country this weekend following a cold snap that rattled some regions.
A blast of arctic air slowed shopping earlier this week in Minnesota, the Dakotas, Iowa and Nebraska, said Susan Eich, spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based retailer Dayton Hudson Corp., which owns Target, Mervyn's and three department store chains.
Cold, wet weather in the Northeast dampened midweek shopping in the New York area, analysts said.
Snow fell Wednesday in Atlanta. And south Florida felt an unfamiliar chill Friday, but the retail impact was minimal. "It looks fairly good. ... Down here they're buying," said J.W. Charles Securities retail analyst Allen Roness in Boca Raton, Fla. The registers are ringing in California as well, where weather has not been a problem, said Robertson Stephens retail analyst Edward Weller in San Francisco. "It's going to be a reasonably good Christmas for American consumers and a very good one for retailers," he said.
He noted, however, that some sectors are outperforming others. Clothing sales are strong, reflecting perhaps the closings this past year of hundreds of apparel retailers, Weller said.
On the other hand, home computer sales continue to look anemic and prices are coming down fast. "Consumer demand for computers is, in technical terms ... poor," Weller said.
There are five fewer shopping days this year between Thanksgiving and Christmas compared with 1995. As a result, retailers have that much less time to meet their sales targets and consumers have that much less time to shop and compare.
"Everybody knew it going in. So they got the ads out early and put the decorations up early," said A.G. Edwards retail analyst Stephen Latz in St. Louis, where warmer weather is forecast for the weekend.
Staring down the barrel of a shortened season, retailers have begun some sales promotions, but last year's huge price markdowns so far are not being matched, Latz said.
"I don't think anybody has gone nuts like they did in past years," he said. "It's going to be the best season in the last few years, but those five fewer days are a lot to overcome ... That's going to be the story."
Volkswagen AG Czech unit Skoda Auto a.s. said on Monday its new mid-sized "Octavia" sedan will list on its home market at a base price of 335,700 crowns ($12,800), at the low end of its class.
At a media presentation at the plant north of Prague, marketing chief Detlef Wittig said Skoda will make 64,000 Octavias next year, and raise production to 90,000 in 1998.
The new model, built on a common VW platform designed for the 1998 Audi A3 and upgraded Golf, will be available with three petrol and two diesel engines, with the top-of-the-line SLX automatic model priced at 497,900 crowns.
The Octavia will get its international test at the Paris International Auto Show in October and should be delivered to Czech dealers in November, followed by launches on foreign markets where prices have yet to be determined.
Skoda was taken over by Volkswagen in 1992 under a government privatisation plan. The company built an entirely new factory for Octavia production.
Continuing the break from the boxy communist-era Skodas, the Octavia has more modern but conservative lines, somewhere between a Ford Mondeo and Audi's A-line.
Skoda is hoping to build on the success of its Felicia economy five-door hatchback by offering an affordable middle-range sedan and take back chunks of its home market lost to Czechs seeking a more western-looking status symbol.
"Octavia... is a logical step from Felicia into a higher market segment," said Wittig.
The cheapest Octavia includes a 1.6 litre, 55 Kw engine, ignition immobiliser, driver-side airbag, plus an adjustable driver's seat and steering wheel.
More expensive versions will be alternatively equipped with a 1.6/74 kw, 20-valve 1.8/92 kw engine, 1.9/66 kw turbodiesel or 1.9/50 kw diesel engine, and an optional passenger-side airbag.
Side-body airbags should be available in mid-1997.
Wittig told reporters that Octavia should help Skoda's total production to rise to 350,000 units next year and 400,000 at the turn of the century after 251,000 cars made this year.
"Within the (VW) concern, Skoda takes the position of the counterweight to the Asian producers," he added.
Skoda Chairman Ludvik Kalma said that he expected about 20,000 Octavias to be sold annually on the domestic market, the rest being exported to the rest of Europe and overseas.
The company lost 1.621 billion crowns last year due to heavy investments into the new factory, but Kalma said the firm should come close to breaking even this year.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003 ($ = 26.12 Czech Crowns)
H.J. Heinz Co chairman Tony O'Reilly said on Friday the U.S. food group was in deal talks with prospective buyers and would sell substantial businesses by April 30.
"By the end of the fiscal year, the businesses will have a leaner focus," O'Reilly said in a telephone interview.  
O'Reilly declined to identify the businesses on the auction block or estimate how much cash the properties would bring Heinz, a leading U.S. food products group which dominates several lines, such as canned tuna fish.
"If I tell you, that's where the bargaining will start," O'Reilly said.
He said Heinz was in contact with four or five potential buyers.  
The executive said Heinz will trim down to six business clusters: food-service products, pet food, infant formula outside the United States, condiments such as ketchup, and weight-loss services and products.
A third to a fourth of Heinz businesses are estimated to be outside those areas.
"The buzz word now is focus," O'Reilly said.
Heinz, based in Pittsburgh, has scheduled a Wall Street analysts' meeting in March on the asset sales.
O'Reilly repeated that Heinz should post a double-digit percentage profit increase in the fiscal year ending April 30.
The company 10 days ago repeated quarterly share profits of $0.47, up from $0.42 a year earlier, and said most businesses performed well.  An exception was U.S. Weight Watchers diet classes and foods.
Heinz shares were up 1/2 to 36-1/4.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013
International businessman Tony O'Reilly said on Friday acquisitions by his Independent Newspapers Plc will slow considerably next year after the takeover of New Zealand's leading newspaper and other deals.
"I consider next year a year of consolidation," Independent Newspapers Chairman O'Reilly told Reuters in a telephone interview.  
But O'Reilly's name came up just this week in London markets as the rumored buyer of Mirror Group Newspapers Plc's 46 percent stake in Britain's Independent Newspapers Plc.
Both Mirror Group and O'Reilly, whose separate, Dublin-based firm also owns a 46 percent stake in the British title, denied a deal was in the works.
O'Reilly, best known in the United States as chairman of H.J. Heinz Co, also acknowledged his company was keeping a close eye on Australian media group John Fairfax Holdings Ltd.  
Conrad Black, the Canadian media tycoon who runs Hollinger International Inc, sold a 20 percent stake in Fairfax this week after complaining about Australian limits on foreign ownership of newspaper companies.
Some press reports suggest Fairfax might sell a top newspaper or become an acquisition target.
"The situation there is fluid, very interesting," O'Reilly said. "You can just say the O'Reillys are looking on with interest."  
News Corp Ltd chairman Rupert Murdoch last month sold his five percent stake in Fairfax and on Wednesday said he had lost interest in the company because of the foreign ownership ceilings. A native Australian, Murdoch is now a U.S. citizen.
Independent Newspapers owns a 25 percent stake in the Australian regional newspaper company APN, and this year acquired a controlling 85 percent stake in Wilson &amp; Horton in a deal valuing the leading New Zealand newspaper company at NZ$1.32 billion.  
"Wilson &amp; Horton will be an important springboard for us," O'Reilly said.
The executive said the New Zealand company would help Independent expand its commercial printing and educational businesses in the region.
O'Reilly said his executives next year would be working primarily on increasing results and efficiencies in Independent properties. Deals, in part because his family wishes to maintain its 28 percent equity stake in Independent, would be secondary.
Company results should be strong in 1997, he said.  
The company's South African properties will have to produce better than normal profit gains to offset currency losses expected from a drop in the South African rand, he said.
Independent's newspapers in Ireland, Britain, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and elsewhere will benefit from a sharp drop in newsprint. Costs for the raw material of newspapers has dropped from an average $520 a ton within the past year to around $400 currently, he said.  
O'Reilly described as reasonable profit forecasts by Dublin's Davey Stockbrokers that Independent would post a 15 percent profit rise to 18.6 pence per share in 1997 and an 18 percent rise to 21.4 pence per share in 1998.
-- Miami newsroom, 305-374-5013.
Britain has suggested going to the World Court over China's plan to disband Hong Kong's elected legislature when Beijing takes back the territory next July.
The spectre of the two countries slugging it out in the International Court of Justice in the Hague raised the drama of Hong Kong's transition to Chinese rule to a new level after many months of bitter wrangling on handover arrangements.
British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind and Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten denounced China's plans on Friday and proposed letting the World Court rule on the dispute.
After more than 150 years of British rule, the capitalist territory of 6.3 million people falls back under the Chinese flag at midnight next June 30, with promises from Beijing's communist leadership that almost nothing will change.
At that moment, a Beijing-appointed legislature will take over from the elected Legislative Council (Legco), reversing democratic reforms introduced by Patten over the past four years.
"There is no justification for China to replace a legislature elected openly and fairly by more than one million Hong Kong people," Rifkind said in London.
"China should be prepared to trust Hong Kong people with the measure of democracy we have introduced."
He summoned Chinese ambassador Jiang Enzhu, the man tipped to be China's envoy in Hong Kong next July, to underline Britain's concern.
Separately, Patten said in a statement and in an interview with Reuters that the body planned by China would be a "rubber stamp" chamber that would simply echo Beijing.
The threat of World Court action came on the eve of a vote by 400 wealthy and influential Hong Kong people picked under China's supervision to elect the provisional legislature.
Pro-democracy groups staged scattered protests in Hong Kong and jeered committee members as they left for the Chinese frontier city of Shenzhen where Saturday's meeting takes place.
"The International Court of Justice will, I'm sure, be able to sort things out, and we'd be very happy to put our arguments to them," Patten told Reuters.
"Clearly this weekend is going to be a very disagreeable one," Patten said, adding that China might "trash an institution" but it could not "stamp out the spirit of democracy" in Hong Kong.
Protesters mounted small-scale demonstrations outside China's diplomatic mission in the colony and at the Hung Hom railway station where members of the Selection Committee were boarding trains for Shenzhen.
"It is totally unacceptable," said lawmaker Emily Lau, who joined in the protests. "There is no legal and constitutional basis for that body, and also the Chinese government is using that body to kick out people who they do not like."
Patten said that despite Britain's views on the legislature, he would meet Hong Kong's post-colonial leader-designate, 59-year-old shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa, to explore ways to cooperate on building the post-handover administration.
The quarrel over the legislature set Tung and Patten on a collision course this week. Tung lashed back in a speech to the business community, saying Britain must "face the reality" and warned that if the legislature were challenged he would get China's parliament to pass a resolution making it legal.
Hong Kong's biggest pro-democracy group, the Democratic Party, is boycotting Saturday's selection process, which it brands as a plot to snuff out democracy and enact repressive laws.
"You won't find five of them who can be called democrats by any stretch of the imagination," Democratic Party leader Martin Lee told Reuters, commenting on the candidates.
Hong Kong's Governor Chris Patten on Friday denounced a legislature that Beijing plans to impose on the territory as a "rubber stamp" and said Britain and China should fight it out in the World Court.
"The International Court of Justice will, I'm sure, be able to sort things out, and we'd be very happy to put our arguments to them," Patten told Reuters in an interview.
His remarks, on the eve of a gathering in China to create the legislature, coincided with a toughly worded statement in London by Foreign Minister Malcolm Rifkind, who urged China to reconsider its plan or face international pressure.
"Clearly this weekend is going to be a very disagreeable one," Patten said of Saturday's gathering of 400 of Hong Kong's elite who will meet over the border in the Chinese city of Shenzhen.
They will elect 60 new legislators to take over lawmaking next July 1.
On that day, Hong Kong reverts to Chinese sovereignty, after a century and a half under the British flag, with a treaty pledge from Beijing that it can stay a distinct entity with its laissez faire capitalist system intact for a further 50 years.
The transition has been bumpy since China decided to disband the elected Legislative Council and appoint a new interim body without a mass vote, rolling back the expansion of democracy ushered in by Patten over the past four years.
Democrats in Hong Kong have said they will mount legal challenges if the interim body meets in the territory before July 1.
Calling China's plan a "sad and bad decision to go ahead with the establishment of a rubber stamp legislative body", Patten said it was designed to reduce democrats involved in lawmaking and would have serious legal repercussions.
He said that if China insisted the body was in line with Sino-British handover accords, "let them join Britain in making a joint submission to the World Court, the International Court of Justice, so that we can actually get a ruling from the ICJ."
But Patten also said he would go ahead with efforts to help Hong Kong's future leader, shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, to prepare his administration. Tung was picked this month by the same 400-strong Selection Committee choosing the legislature.
Patten said he would meet his successor on Monday to explore a framework for pre-handover cooperation.
"We will cooperate in helping him establish an office, in helping him prepare for July 1, 1997. We will do everything to cooperate within the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law. But there is absolutely no requirement whatsoever for a provisional legislature before July 1," he said.
He said China might be able to "trash an institution" but it could not "stamp out the spirit of democracy" in Hong Kong.
Top Hollywood film stars, including screen idols Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt, have been placed on a blacklist of 50 people barred from visiting the restive region of Tibet, Chinese officials said on Friday.
News that some of Hollywood's biggest box office draws were on a blacklist comes just weeks after Beijing clashed with U.S. entertainment giant Walt Disney Co over its film on the life of Tibet's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama.
Brad Pitt, Harrison Ford and his wife Melissa Mathison Ford as well as directors Martin Scorsese and Jean-Jaques Annaud were among a group of movie personalities on a blacklist held by the Tibet Tourism Bureau, a tourist official said by telephone from the regional capital, Lhasa.
"Last October, we were verbally informed by the Tibet state security office that those foreigners should not be given an entry permit if they applied to visit Tibet," he said.
"At the end of April or in early May, we received the formal documents," he said, when asked if the Hollywood stars were barred from the Himalayan region that has been rocked by sporadic anti-Chinese unrest in recent years.
"They are banned from coming here for any reason," the official said, adding that none of those named on the list had yet applied to visit.
Brad Pitt stars as an escaped Austrian prisoner of war, who fled India in World War Two and found refuge in Lhasa where he befriended the young Dalai Lama, in the film "Seven Years in Tibet" that is directed by Annaud. China has not formally objected to the film.
However, it has apparently tried to halt production by California-based Walt Disney of the film "Kundun" that tells of the Dalai Lama's early life and is directed by Scorsese. Mathison Ford is a scriptwriter for the movie.
Disney has said it will go ahead with the release of "Kundun" despite China's objections. Beijing has denied putting pressure on Disney to withdraw backing for the film.
Beijing has been reported to have warned Walt Disney last month that its ambitious business plans in China were at risk if it went ahead with the release of the movie.
A Foreign Ministry spokesman said Disney would be wrong to sing the praises of the exiled spiritual leader.
The Dalai Lama fled Tibet to India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Chinese rule and has since waged a non-violent campaign for autonomy for his homeland.
However, the blacklist did not include actor Richard Gere, who has long backed the Tibetan spiritual movement and is an active supporter of the Dalai Lama, the tourism official said.
Gere was among a group of movie luminaries who this month wrote to China's ambassador in Washington protesting against what they called Beijing's "attempt to impose worldwide censorship".
Officials had begun to compile a blacklist of foreigners barred from visiting the restive area in 1993, and the list had now reached more than 50 names, he said.
All foreign visitors to Tibet are required first to obtain an entry permit issued by local authorities who are anxious to keep out Westerners who may support the underground pro-independence movement spearheaded by the region's monks.
Tony O'Reilly, best known in America as H.J. Heinz chairman, has the U.S. food group slimming down while beefing up his family's Independent Newspapers Plc of Ireland.
Independent, an acquisitive, fast-growing company that is 28 percent owned by O'Reilly and his family, competes in deals and markets with such international media figures as Rupert Murdoch of News Corp. Ltd.
O'Reilly's name came up just this week in London markets as the rumoured buyer of Mirror Group Newspapers Plc's 46 percent stake in Britain's Independent Newspapers Plc for $100 million.
While O'Reilly knocked down deal speculation on the Independent, a leading British daily in which his firm already has a 46 percent holding, he hinted in an interview that he has an eye on buying into leading Australian publisher John Fairfax Holdings Ltd.
"The situation there is fluid, very interesting," O'Reilly said. "You can just say the O'Reillys are looking on with interest."
Since the early 1970s, when the former rugby star and food industry executive bought into Independent, the company has steadily expanded and sells 80 percent of Ireland's nationally distributed newspapers.
Independent also has radio partnerships and controlling shares of leading newspaper businesses in New Zealand and South Africa and a French billboard company.
Financial performance has been very strong, with the stock market value of Independent rising a heady sixfold in five years.
In Pittsburgh, the headquarters of Heinz, the drill is largely different.
O'Reilly, in the telephone interview from Dublin, said the food company he has run since 1979 was in deal talks with prospective buyers and would sell substantial businesses by April 30.
"By the end of the fiscal year, the businesses will have a leaner focus," he said.
O'Reilly declined to identify the businesses on the auction block or estimate how much cash the properties would bring Heinz, which dominates in canned tuna, ketchup and other segments.
"If I tell you, that's where the bargaining will start," O'Reilly said. He said Heinz was in contact with four or five potential buyers.
The executive said Heinz will trim down to six business clusters: food-service products, pet food, infant formula outside the United States, condiments, ketchup, and weight-loss services and products.
One-third to one-quarter of Heinz businesses covering thousands of products are estimated to be outside those areas.
"The buzz word now is focus," O'Reilly said.
Acquisitions at Heinz, known for its Weight Watchers services and brands such as 9 Lives pet food, are not ruled out. The company, in fact, just broke off talks aimed at acquiring some assets of Bumble Bee, a competitor to its StarKist line of canned tuna. Heinz is also digesting a large pet-food acquisition it made from Quaker Oats.
Beyond being known as a newspaper baron outside North America, O'Reilly has interests in other Irish firms. Another he leads as chairman, Irish crystal and china firm Waterford Wedgwood, Thursday agreed to buy 9.1 percent of a German porcelain group Rosenthal AG.
O'Reilly, 60, is widely regarded as Ireland's richest man and appears close to being, if not already, Ireland's only billionaire, associates said.
The Federal Reserve took another step Friday toward eliminating the barriers between banking and other financial service industries, voting to allow banks to further invade the turf of Wall Street securities firms.
The Fed Board of Governors voted unanimously to increase the percentage of revenue bank subsidiaries may earn from underwriting and dealing in securities to 25 percent from 10 percent.
Bank subsidiaries have been bumping against the 10 percent limit and earlier this year the Fed cited Swiss Bank Corp. for exceeding the cap.
Banks were elated by the new rule.
"This is a tremendous boost for banks that already underwrite securities and an incentive for banks considering this business," American Bankers Association managing director Larry LaRocca said.
Securities firms, however, were not pleased.
"It's as if Santa Clause delivered all the gifts to only one house in the neighbourhood," said Steve Judge, senior vice president for the Securities Industry Association.
Bruce Thompson, director of government relations at the nation's largest brokerage firm, Merrill Lynch and Co., said he hoped the greater latitude given to banks would not reduce the banks' previous support for Congressional action.
"We hope this does not reduce their incentive," he said. "The time really is coming for having everyone put aside their own particular interests and support comprehensive reform."
Officials at leading banks said they still wanted Congress to take more dramatic action.
"We need complete financial reform," Rachel Robbins, general counsel of J.P. Morgan &amp; Co, said. "This addresses one piece of it and doesn't address it completely but until Congress can act this is a welcome action."
For decades, securities underwriting was the exclusive purview of firms like Merrill Lynch and Salomon Brothers.
But since 1987, when the Fed first allowed bank subsidiaries to earn 5 percent of their revenues from underwriting, big banks like J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. and Bankers Trust have made dramatic inroads.
While the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act generally prohibits banks from engaging in non-bank activity, under section 20 of the Act banks may affiliate with firms not "engaged principally" in such areas. Currently, 41 bank "Section 20" subsidiaries have permission to engage in underwriting.
The Fed's action will add to pressure on Congress, which was already planning to review the entire scope of financial sector regulation next year.
Securities firms, insurance companies and others who opposed lifting restriction on banks in the past will likely favour reform this time around, according to Robert Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institute.
Raising the revenue cap, and an announcement last month by the Comptroller of the Currency allowing banks another avenue for entering unrelated fields, only go halfway, Litan said.
"It's not a two-way street. Other industries will want to level the playing field," he said.
At Friday's meeting, Fed governors called for Congress to follow their lead and and revise the laws.
"We hope that the next move will be up to the Congress in this whole area," Fed Vice Chairwoman Alice Rivlin said.
The Federal Reserve Friday rebuffed a request by the Justice Department to allow U.S. banks to collect data about borrowers as part of an effort to discourage racial discrimination in lending.
The unanimous decision put the central bank's board in the unusual position of being at the center of a national debate about how best to discourage discrimination.
On the one side: those who see the collection of data on race, gender, age, religion and other charecteristics as a way to ferret out discrimination. On the other: opponents who view such collection as discriminatory on its face.
Backed by banking regulators at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Justice Department urged the Fed to change a regulation that prohibits banks from collecting such data except in the case of mortgage lending.
The department argued that the lack of data was hindering its ability to evaluate charges of racial discrimination in lending to small businesses.
In an unanimous decision, the central bank's board voted against changing Fed Regulation B, saying it might lack the authority to act without new legislation from Congress.
"The issue ... is not some technical matter of law or economics," Fed Governor Lawrence Lindsey said.
"Rather, it is at the center of a heartfelt and ongoing debate in America about the direction of public policy with respect to individual characteristics," he added.
The regulation, which was established in 1977, was designed to discourage discrimination by race, gender and age by prohibiting banks from collecting such data from borrowers.
Fed Governor Edward Kelley described the proposed change in the regulation as "social policy of the most profound sort" and said it "provides no answer to the social conundrum that's before us."
That is not the way the Justice Department sees it. In a letter to Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan Friday, Associate Attorney General John Schmidt said changes in the regulation would help combat discrimination.
"Allowing credit providers to collect certain basic data seems to us to be a useful step toward getting a better handle on the extent of this problem," he said.
Existing studies, though limited, "do appear to provide some support for the widespread view ... that minority-owned businesses face unusually difficult barriers in obtaining this type of credit," Schmidt added.
Creditors and their trade associations had opposed the regulation change, which was first released for comment by the Fed in April, 1995.
An international task force working to resolve the simmering controversy over desirable addresses on the Internet released a draft plan Friday for a substantial expansion of the total number of destinations.
The International Ad Hoc Committee on domain names, formed by the Internet Society in October, recommended that seven new so-called top-level domains be added to the Internet.
Top-level domains are the three-letter designations most Internet sites end with, such as "com" in http://www.gm.com and other commercial sites, "gov" in government sites and "edu" for sites run by schools.
The committee recommended that an unlimited number of firms be authorised to register the new addresses, although the panel said it hoped to initially approve 20 to 30 new registration services.
Addresses for most sites are currently handed out by Network Solutions Inc. of Herndon, Va., which charges $100 for each registration.
At first, Network Solutions would continue to have a monopoly on the domain names it already controls but the committee said its "ultimate goal" is to have all names handled by all qualifed firms.
"The IAHC members were faced with a formidable challenge," said Donald Heath, president of the Internet Society and chairman of the committee. "We accomplished our goal, in no small part, because we were able to bring people together from around the world, via the Internet."
The full text of the recommendations was posted on the Internet at http://www.iahc.org, Heath said. The proposal will be open for public comment until Jan. 17 and a final report is expected by Feb. 3.
New names and competing registration services should help quell disputes over popular or trademarked names.
Disputes are arising more frequently, usually when the holder of a trademark discovers that someone else is using their trademark as the name of an Internet site.
For example, Viacom Inc.'s MTV music channel fought with one of its employees, who had registered "mtv.com," eventually regaining control of the name in an out-of-court settlement.
In another case, a journalist tweaked McDonald's Corp. by registering "mcdonalds.com" before the fast-food giant did and before the Web had attained its current prominence. The address now belongs to McDonald's.
Once new top-level domain names are available, 10 people or organisations could register similar names. The new top-level domains will contain three to five letters but have not yet been selected.
The committee included members from the Internet Society, which helps coordinate and develop Net standards; the Internet Assigned Number Authority, which oversees certain of the standards, and the Internet Architecture Board, which helps draft and promulgate new technical standards.
The committee also included representatives from the International Telecommunications Union, the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the International Trademark Association.
After a tough year of slimmer profits and lower stock values, U.S. health maintenance organisations are expected to bounce back a bit in 1997.
Medical cost inflation is slowing and analysts see room for HMOs to raise premiums and restore some of the profit margin they lost this year. Still, the prognosis is cautious as the industry continues consolidating and faces controversy.
"It's not a super spectacular outlook, but it certainly looks better than 1995 and 1996," said Bear Stearns managed health care industry analyst Gary Frazier.
This year, medical costs, driven largely by higher prescription drug prices, rose faster than forecasts based on historical trends and left HMOs locked into premium rates that were too low to preserve profit margins. By early spring, the pinch was evident to Wall Street and HMO stock values from March to July declined sharply across the board.
Thirteen of the 16 largest publicly traded HMOs still have not regained first-quarter highs since the sell-off. The three that have are United Wisconsin Services Inc., Oxford Health Plans Inc. and FHP International Corp., which is being acquired by PacifiCare Health Systems Inc.
Good recovery has been experienced by PacifiCare, WellPoint Health Networks Inc. and Aetna Inc., while only modest upward reversals have been made by industry giant United Healthcare Corp., Humana Inc. and others. Still reeling from the debacle are Coventry Corp., Mid Atlantic Medical Services Inc. and Physician Corp.
"Questions about pricing and margins still hang over the industry," said Salomon Brothers managed health care industry analyst Robert Hoehn.
Medical cost inflation forecasts vary, but most analysts look for premiums to rise slightly faster than costs in 1997.
"The HMOs are starting to take some action by raising premiums, but the problem is they're really just catching up," said Peter Reilly, an actuary at the health care consulting firm of Milliman &amp; Robertson. "Premium increases have lagged cost increases significantly."
Whether HMOs are able next year to restore profit margins to the levels that Wall Street likes may have as much to do with their willingness to court public criticism as with their actual market power, suggested one industry observer.
"This has been a year characterised by scathing attacks on the industry with the implication that profits are being made at the expense of high-quality health care," said Doug Sherlock, editor of the industry newsletter Pulse.
With one eye on public relations and the other on the bottom line, some HMOs in 1996 may have intentionally let margins slip, Sherlock suggested. "One or 2 percent profit margins are less easy to attack than 9 percent," he said.
If the heat in state legislatures and elsewhere subsides, HMOs may feel they have room to move, or they may not, Sherlock said. "These companies still have ... all the bargaining power they need. It's really a situation of whether they choose to exercise it or not."
Based on a survey of 100 HMOs nationwide, Pulse projects the industry's aggregate medical-loss ratio to decline 1.5 percentage points next year, boosting profits slightly. The ratio, which measures how much HMOs pay out to cover members' medical costs, rose a hefty 4.2 percentage points in 1996.
More mergers and acquisitions are expected, as well. Of the more than 600 U.S. HMOs, only United and Aetna look to be truly national players, Hoehn said. "Everybody else has to either merge with someone or sell," he said.
The ancient Czech capital has suffered invasions of dictators and demonstrators but nothing and no-one so extraordinary as Michael Jackson and his cohorts.
The controversial and self-styled "King of Pop" plays his first concert in two years when the "HiStory" world tour starts on Saturday on Prague's Letna Plain, where Communist leaders once reviewed troops and Pope John Paul II held mass.
On Tuesday, Jackson is expected to receive the kind of welcome usually reserved for heads of state when his jet lands at Prague's VIP terminal and he is wisked away in a Rolls Royce.
This tour is Jackson's first since he was cleared of child molestation charges by a U.S. court because of lack of evidence.
Like Britain's Queen Elizabeth in May, he will get a full police escort through the ancient Czech capital, but not even monarchs can compete with the huge fleet of luxury cars readied to carry the star's entourage.
Police have asked Czechs to stay away from the airport, but officials have encouraged well-wishers to come out and wave along the 15 km (10 mile) route into the city.
Jackson's Prague date has avoided the controversy at other stops on his three-month tour through Europe, Africa and Asia.
In South Korea, civic and religious groups reacted bitterly to a decision to let Jackson play two concerts in Seoul in October, saying it was unbelievable that the government agreed to to make an "amoral singer" the teenagers' idol.
A planned stop in Casablanca was cancelled by Moroccan authorities, without explanation. A concert organiser said the government did not want 100,000 youths all in the same place.
Jackson's Prague promoter, Serge Grimaux, said the normally reclusive Jackson wanted to arrive several days before the concert to mix with the thousands who throng the bridges and palaces of the Bohemian capital "like a normal tourist".
"He has a big interest in meeting people and doesn't want to be too incognito," Grimaux told reporters.
For those who don't see enough of Jackson, organisers are planning to erect a 10-metre (33 foot) water-filled statue of the singer on the same rock platform hovering above Prague where a monument to Soviet-leader Josef Stalin once stood.
Never before has the sprawling parade ground adjacent to Prague Castle prepared for a spectacle like the one planned for the expected 130,000 paying guests on Saturday.
Huge walls for two security perimeters -- to keep out those not paying the $21 for a ticket -- are being built on the Letna grounds which usually host ball fields, car parks, and a major east-west thoroughfare.
"I'm not building Alcatraz, I'm just building a perimeter for the people that have paid for their tickets to get what they deserve," Grimaux said.
An international task force charged with resolving the simmering controversey over desirable Internet address names released a draft plan Friday to expand the total number of addresses substantially.
International Ad Hoc Committee on domain names, formed by the Internet Society in October, said seven new "top level domains" should be added to the Internet.
Most Internet addresses end with one of a few three letter designations, including "com" for private sites, "gov" for government sites and "edu" for sites run by schools.  
Addresses for most designations, or top level domains, are given out by Network Solutions Inc of Herndon, Va., which charges $100 for each registration.
The committee also recommended that an unlimited number of firms be able to register the new addresses, although the committee said it hoped initially to authorize 20 to 30 new registration services.
At first, Network Solutions would continue to have a monopoly on the domain names it already controls but the committee said its "ultimate goal" is to have all names handled by all qualifed firms.  
"The IAHC members were faced with a formidable challenge," Donald Heath, president the Internet Society and chair of the committee, said. "We accomplished our goal, in no small part, because we were able to bring people together from around the world, via the Internet."
The full text of the recommendations was posted on the Internet at http://www.iahc.org, Heath said. The proposal will be open for public comment until Jan. 17, 1997 and a final report is expected by Feb. 3, 1997.
New names and competing registration services should help quell disputes over popular or trademarked names.  
Disputes are arising more frequently, usually when the holder of a trademark discovers that someone else is using their trademark as the name of an Internet site.
For example, Viacom Inc's MTV music channel fought with one of its employees, who had registered "mtv.com," eventually regaining control of the name in an out-of-court settlement.
Once new top-level domain names are available, 10 people could register similiar names.  The new top level domains will contain three to five letters but have not yet been selected.  
The committee included members from the Internet Society, the Internet Assigned Number Authority, which oversees certain Internet standards, and the Internet Architecture Board, which helps draft and promulgate new standards.
The committee also included representatives from the International Telecommunications Union, the World Intellectual Property Organization and the International Trademark Association.
((--202-898-8312))
U.S. banks will be able to significantly increase their securities underwriting activities under a rule adopted Friday by the Federal Reserve, but that will only add pressure on Congress to overhaul the entire regulatory system, market participants said.
The Fed voted unanimously to allow so-called section 20 subsidiaries of banks to derive as much as 25 percent of their revenues from underwriting and dealing in securities such as stocks, corporate bonds and commercial paper.
The new rule takes effect in 60 days, the Fed said.  
At the meeting, Fed governors called for Congressional action to reform the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act and other laws separating banks from non-bank financial services industries.
"We hope that the next move will be up to the Congress in this whole area," Fed vice chair Alice Rivlin said.
"Legislation is needed but I think this is a constructive step and it is appropriate for us to interpret the existing legislation," Governor Susan Phillips said.
While the Glass-Steagall Act prohibits banks from engaging in non-bank activity, under section 20 of the Act banks may affiliate with firms not "engaged principally" in such areas.  
The Fed said it currently authorizes 41 bank subsidiaries to deal and underwrite securities, ranging from stocks and bonds to commercial paper and mortgage-backed securities.
Banks were already allowed to handle other sorts of financial instruments, including Treasury securities and over-the-counter derivatives.
Both the Fed's action and an even broader move last month by the Comptroller of the Currency will raise the pressure on Congress to scrap the Glass-Steagall Act, according to Robert Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institute.  
In the past, banks led the charge to change the law because they wanted to get into other businesses, like selling insurance and underwriting. Insurance companies and securities firms generally opposed the banks, creating legislative gridlock.
Now, all industries will press for change, Litan said. "The tables have been turned," he said. "But it's not a two-way street. Other industries will want to level the playing field."
Banking industry representatives said they were elated by the Fed vote.  
"This is a tremendous boost for banks that already underwrite securities and an incentive for banks considering this business," American Bankers Association managing director Larry LaRocca said.
"By lifting the 10 percent revenue cap to 25 percent for Section 20 ineligible securities, the Fed has begun chipping away at the antiquated barriers handicapping banks for years," LaRocca added.
Securities industry groups had written to the Fed strongly opposing the proposal and restated their position after the vote.  
"It's as if Santa Clause delivered all the gifts to only one house in the neighborhood," Steve Judge, senior vice president for the Securities Industry Association, said.
Judge also called for Congress to act. "Nothing could benefit consumers and our economy more than a modernization of federal laws governing the financial services industry," he said.
((202-898-8312))
Kansas City Southern Industries Inc said it is weighing options to finance its part of a joint $1.4 billion venture to control a Mexican rail line, a key link in its plans to offer Canada-to-Mexico service.
"We absolutely have the ability to finance this," Michael Haverty, president of the Kansas City Southern Railway subsidiary, said in a telephone interview on Thursday.
Financing concerns hit Kansas City Southern since it and partner Transportacion Maritima Mexicana SA de CV (TMM) were awarded control of the rail line this month.
Kansas City Southern holds 49 percent of the Laredo, Texas to Mexico City rail line, known as Line 1, with TMM holding 51 percent. Responsibility for financing the deal will be split along those lines as well, Havery said.
While financing has not been finalized, options include potential equity investments from partners, Haverty said, but added, "We would prefer to jealously guard the equity."
"We've also talked to some strategic partners about the possibility of loaning us money in exchange for commercial arrangements," he added.
Gruntal &amp; Co analyst Steven Lewins said one option would be to raise its portion of the financing in dollars, but pay for the Mexican rail stake in pesos. If the peso loses value, as he expects, that would create currency translation gains for the company and reduce Kansas City Southern's costs.
Recent concerns over financing and dilution of earnings has brought Kansas City Southern's shares from 50-3/8 on December 5, before the Mexican deal was formally announced, down to 44-3/4 on Friday, unchanged from the day before.
At this level, Lewins said he considers Kansas City Southern shares "buyable."
Haverty said the company told analysts it expects the deal to hurt its earnings in the first year, be "slightly" dilutive in the second and add to earnings in the third. Lewins cut his 1997 earnings estimate for Kansas City Southern on December 10 to $2.85 a share from $3.20 due to the Mexican deal.
The potential investment in Line 1 will not stop with the initial bid. Haverty said the partners may spend up to $900 million over five years to upgrade Line 1.
He stressed that the $900 million figure is a maximum, saying there are other alternatives including leasing equipment instead of purchasing.
But the challenge remains that only about 12 percent of the freight along the Mexico City to Laredo corridor moves by rail, with the remainder hauled by truck, compared with 20 percent moving by rail about 10 years ago. About 35 to 40 percent of U.S. freight moves by rail, Haverty added.
Haverty said he believes Kansas City Southern and TMM can increase the amount of Mexican freight moving by rail. He views Line 1 as the key component in his company's plans to build a "NAFTA railroad," referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) that allows the flow of goods between the United States, Canada and Mexico.
((Reuters Chicago Newsdesk (312) 408-8787))
Russia's Rosneft oil firm won a new lease of life on Monday after a Moscow court ruled it could keep its crown-jewel asset, a key Siberian oil producer coveted by a major rival.
An arbitration court said prize producer AO Purneftegaz would stay at Rosneft, ending a high-stakes tussle between Rosneft and the big SIDANKO oil company for control over the enterprise.
"The decision is key to Rosneft's survival," said Dan Lubash, managing director of Emerging Markets Europe at Merrill Lynch in London.
Rosneft, the state oil holding company which is slowly being privatised, lost most of its assets in recent years when President Boris Yeltsin carved up the once government-owned oil industry into vertically-integrated, privatised companies.
Monday's ruling could help keep Rosneft -- once Russia's number-one producer but now near the bottom of the list -- alive by letting it keep a company sitting on big untapped reserves.
"Purneftegaz is not just a promising producer now -- it has a lot of promising reserves," said Rosneft press director Vladimir Tumarkin. "We consider today's decision an act of legal justice in Russia and a victory for Rosneft."
Attractive Purneftegaz, a Western Siberian enterprise that pumped over eight million tonnes of crude in 1995, has long been the object of a corporate wrangle between Rosneft and SIDANKO.
Under Yeltsin's sweeping oil industry restructuring, a 1994 government resolution awarded Purneftegaz to SIDANKO (the Siberian-Far Eastern Oil Company) -- but a 1995 executive order shifted ownership back to Rosneft.
Vladimir Vetluzhky, an arbitration court member, told Reuters that the body had ruled against SIDANKO's lawsuit to have the 1995 decision reversed.
Purneftegaz's output accounted for about two-thirds of Rosneft's production of 13 million tonnes last year.
"Purneftegaz is much more important to Rosneft than it is to SIDANKO," said Stephen O'Sullivan, associate director of oil and gas at MC Securities in London.
Spokesmen at SIDANKO, one of Russia's top five oil majors in terms of output, were not available for comment.
SIDANKO, which energy analysts said wields little control over its key subsidiary, producer Chernogorneft, badly wanted Purneftegaz and its exports to pay off debts and taxes.
"Purneftegaz is one of Russia's most promising oil firms," said petroleum economist Rustem Shagiyev of the government's Academy of Economics. "The ruling is very positive for Rosneft."
But other analysts said Rosneft may need more to prosper in Russia's newly-competitive oil industry.
"The decision means Rosneft is still in business as a vertically-integrated oil company -- but it will need more than just one big producer to compete," said oil analyst Steve Allen of CentreInvest consultancy in Moscow.
Rosneft's other major asset is Sakhalinmorneftegaz, partner to four giant foreign energy projects in Russia's Far East.
O'Sullivan said the tug-of-war for Purneftegaz may yet continue and that SIDANKO could appeal against Monday's court ruling -- but Tumarkin said the corporate tussle had come to an end.
Purneftegaz shares barely reacted to the decision, nudging down to $2.28 on the Russian Trading System at 1445 GMT from Friday's close of $2.30.
"If the decision had been different, it would have been a major blow to Rosneft," Lubash said.
The crackdown on China's young stock markets has triggered huge losses in share values and highlighted problems, particularly widespread irregularities and the lack of a regulatory structure, analysts said Friday.
The week of losses on the exchanges in the wake of a Beijing warning on speculation was also a re-run of the age-old Chinese boom-and-bust cycle: controls are relaxed, rule-breaking surges, the screws are tightened and the machine almost breaks.
"Widespread irregularities are partly a legacy of the old planned economy," said one economist. "But given the power of administrative edicts to influence the markets, some firms have no choice but to resort to irregularities to survive."
The sudden announcement of Beijing's wrath at the unruly stock markets, expressed in a People's Daily commentary on Monday, aimed to dampen speculative trading, but ironically could have the opposite effect, some analysts said.
"Policy changes have always been a key speculative topic on China's stock markets," said one trader. "To regulate the markets with official orders like this time might temporarily depress the speculative mood, but in longer term, it will further add weight to the speculative fever on policy shifts."
Market sources said that had Beijing used market means rather than administrative edicts to check the dangerous roller-coaster trend in share trading, the response of the markets would have been much less volatile.
As it was, Shanghai's domestic A share index plunged 20.07 percent to 922.34 points at the close of Friday's trading against Friday's close last week, while the foreign currency B index was down 3.84 percent to 63.743 points.
In Shenzhen, the A share index nosedived 29.07 percent on the week to 328.96 points, while the B index lost 15.94 percent to 125.56.
"Most investors are pessimistic about the short-term trend with turnover sharply down this week against last week," said one broker. "We had nearly no new accounts opened this week."
"The inflow of fresh money into A shares has almost stopped completely," a Shenzhen-based trader said. "Many investors are in despair seeing the price of their shares diving nearly every day."
Analysts said the dramatic changes this week sparked reflections on the bust-boom cycle which has dominated China's stock markets since they were re-established in 1990.
At its height, Shanghai's A share index had surged more than 100 percent and its Shenzhen counterpart over 300 percent since April when Beijing announced that it supported stock market development.
"The markets are poorly regulated," said one stock analyst. "One of the reasons for this is the lack of a national securities law governing the stock market."
The draft Securities Law, the topic of hot debate in the corridors of power in Beijing for years, is not expected to be enacted soon, analysts say.
Irregularities, including manipulation of selected share prices, have been rife in the Chinese markets for years.
In an effort to bring the industry to heel, authorities over the past month have punished branches of nearly all major state-run banks and securities houses for involvement in shady stock dealings.
The Federal Reserve took another step Friday toward eliminating the barriers between banking and other financial service industries, voting to allow banks to further invade the turf of Wall Street securities firms.
The Fed Board of Governors voted unanimously to increase the percentage of revenue bank subsidiaries may earn from underwriting and dealing in securities to 25 percent from 10 percent.
Bank subsidiaries have been bumping against the 10 percent limit and earlier this year the Fed cited Swiss Bank Corp. for exceeding the cap.
Banks were elated by the new rule.
"This is a tremendous boost for banks that already underwrite securities and an incentive for banks considering this business," American Bankers Association managing director Larry LaRocca said.
Securities firms, however, were not pleased.
"It's as if Santa Clause delivered all the gifts to only one house in the neighbourhood," said Steve Judge, senior vice president for the Securities Industry Association.
For decades, securities underwriting was the exclusive purview of firms like Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and Salomon Brothers. But since 1987, when the Fed first allowed bank subsidiaries to earn 5 percent of their revenues from underwriting, big banks like J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. and Bankers Trust have made dramatic inroads.
While the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act generally prohibits banks from engaging in non-bank activity, under section 20 of the Act banks may affiliate with firms not "engaged principally" in such areas. Currently, 41 bank "Section 20" subsidiaries have permission to engage in underwriting.
The Fed's action will add to pressure on Congress, which was already planning to review the entire scope of financial sector regulation next year.
Securities firms, insurance companies and others who opposed lifting restriction on banks in the past will likely favour reform this time around, according to Robert Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institute.
Raising the revenue cap, and an announcement last month by the Comptroller of the Currency allowing banks another avenue for entering unrelated fields, only go halfway, Litan said.
"It's not a two-way street. Other industries will want to level the playing field," he said.
At Friday's meeting, Fed governors called for Congress to follow their lead and and revise the laws.
"We hope that the next move will be up to the Congress in this whole area," Fed Vice Chairwoman Alice Rivlin said.
International businessman Tony O'Reilly said on Friday acquisitions by his Independent Newspapers Plc will slow considerably next year after the takeover of New Zealand's leading newspaper and other deals.
"I consider next year a year of consolidation," Independent Newspapers Chairman O'Reilly told Reuters in a telephone interview.
But O'Reilly's name came up just this week in London markets as the rumored buyer of Mirror Group Newspapers Plc's 46 percent stake in Britain's Independent Newspapers Plc.
Both Mirror Group and O'Reilly, whose separate, Dublin-based firm also owns a 46 percent stake in the British title, denied a deal was in the works.
O'Reilly, best known in the United States as chairman of H.J. Heinz Co , also acknowledged his company was keeping a close eye on Australian media group John Fairfax Holdings Ltd .
Conrad Black, the Canadian media tycoon who runs Hollinger International Inc , sold a 20 percent stake in Fairfax this week after complaining about Australian limits on foreign ownership of newspaper companies.
Some press reports suggest Fairfax might sell a top newspaper or become an acquisition target.
"The situation there is fluid, very interesting," O'Reilly said. "You can just say the O'Reillys are looking on with interest."
News Corp Ltd chairman Rupert Murdoch last month sold his five percent stake in Fairfax and on Wednesday said he had lost interest in the company because of the foreign ownership ceilings. A native Australian, Murdoch is now a U.S. citizen.
Independent Newspapers owns a 25 percent stake in the Australian regional newspaper company APN, and this year acquired a controlling 85 percent stake in Wilson &amp; Horton in a deal valuing the leading New Zealand newspaper company at NZ$1.32 billion.
Labor lawyer James Hoffa, refusing to concede defeat in the Teamsters union presidential election nearly a week after his opponent claimed victory, called Thursday for a congressional investigation into the vote.
Hoffa on Tuesday formally asked U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to impound the ballots and initiate an FBI investigation into "serious irregularities" in the election.
"We really have what I call Teamstergate," Hoffa told reporters at a news conference Thursday at the Teamsters' Detroit offices, where his legendary father, the late Jimmy Hoffa, ruled the union in the 1950s and '60s.
Incumbent Teamsters President Ron Carey on Saturday claimed victory in the hard-fought election, winning by an apparent margin of about 17,000 votes. But 41,002 ballots were set aside for further eligibility checks, and Hoffa says more than 25,000 other ballots may have disappeared.
After all eligible votes were tallied late Saturday, court-appointed Election Officer Barbara Zack Quindel accounted for 485,605 mail-in ballots returned. But last week she reported that the total number of ballots received was 511,268, an estimate based on receipts from the U.S. Postal Service.
Hoffa said he wants an explanation for the discrepancy between the ballots counted and the ballots received.
"If I lost, I lost. I just want a fair election," Hoffa said.
Carey, 60, was first elected president of the 1.4 million-member International Brotherhood of Teamsters as a reformer in 1991. His apparent re-election was lauded by AFL-CIO President John Sweeney, who had remained neutral during the campaign.
Meanwhile, Quindel decided Wednesday to void 120 Hoffa votes after finding that a Hoffa backer and former officer of Teamsters Local 743 in Chicago violated election rules by collecting and mailing ballots for other members, according to her spokesman, Jeff O'Mara.
Acting on a protest filed by Carey's campaign last week, O'Mara said Quindel decided it would be too extreme a remedy to void all of the local's ballots.
The ballots from Local 743 were among the 41,002 ballots that were being checked for eligibility.
The election officer has not disclosed interim results of the tabulation of those ballots and O'Mara said he did not know when the final tally would be completed.
But Hoffa said Thursday that initial tabulations of the so-called challenged ballots have cut Carey's lead by as much as 2,400 votes.
The Carey campaign, however, said the lead was cut only by about 1,500 votes. The latest count which included the strongly pro-Hoffa Local 743, showed Carey with 230,111 and Hoffa with 214,906 with about 30,000 of the challenged ballots remaining to be processed and counted if found to be eligible, the Carey campaign said.
Peregrine Inc. may let go up to half of the 5,500 hourly employees at the four former General Motors Corp. component plants it purchased last month, the new company's top executive said Thursday.
Peregrine Chief Executive Officer Edward Gulda, in a briefing with reporters, said workers not needed at Peregrine would be able to transfer back to GM.
People who stay with Peregrine will be paid according to the terms of the new United Auto Worker and Canadian Auto Worker contracts worked out with GM in November and October.
Peregrine was formed by the New York investment firm Joseph Littlejohn &amp; Levy to purchase the four plants from GM's Delphi Automotive Systems unit. Peregrine formally takes over the plants Jan. 1.
The plants, two of them in Michigan and two located in Ontario, make a variety of parts, including window regulators, door hardware, interior trim, structural plastics and metal stampings.
Gulda outlined several steps the new management has mapped out to streamline cost structures and expand the company's operations from the current annual revenue base of about $1 billion. He said three of the four plants are expected to turn a profit in 1997, with the fourth breaking even.
Peregrine, which will be based in Southfield, Mich., will make annual capital investments of at least $20 million a year into the four facilities, he said. Funds will come from cash generated by the operations and initial investor capital.
UAW parts workers earn about $43 an hour, including benefits -- substantially more than non-union companies pay for their workforce. But Gulda said the plants can still be competitive at those wage rates.
"Those people who say they can't be competitive with that just aren't very imaginative," he said. "It isn't a question of what individual people make in the company, it's a question of being worth what you make."
Peregrine expects its overall business to decline over the next two years as a result of past sourcing actions from GM, the company's major customer. But Gulda said future acquisitions, new GM business and internal growth will more than offset that decline.
Three to four years from now, Gulda said he expected Peregrine to generate roughly half of its revenue from non-GM customers as it expands from a regional structure to a global one. He said he would be disappointed if the firm had not doubled its revenues in five years.
Future acquisitions, which could come as soon as early next year, would complement Peregrine's existing business lines, Gulda said. He said the firm may be interested in purchasing other plants from GM's Delphi unit. He also said Peregrine might sell stock to the public, although that is at least two years away.
One of the first facilities to be upgraded will be the door hinge and hardware plant in Flint, Mich., which will receive an immediate overhaul of its stamping operations.
The plant in Livonia, Mich., which makes interior door panels and other trim components, has the most serious structural problems and will require the most significant upgrades, he said.
Gulda said the seat plant in Windsor, Ontario, is an "excellent facility." Key to its future is extending capacity and finding new business as soon as possible, he said.
Peregrine also plans to expand the mold and pain capacity at the faciltiy in Oshawa, Ontario, and improving its cost structure.
The French government said on Friday it would reveal early in the New Year how it plans to sell the Thomson-CSF state defence electronics firm and that the sale would be covered by a 1986 privatisation law.
The decision, announced by the finance ministry, makes the sale process slower than if it had been carried out under another 1991 privatisation decree.
The independent Privatisation Commission earlier this month forced the state to rethink its plan to sell the Thomson SA electronics group in a private deal to the Lagardere Groupe conglomerate, when it objected to a key element in the disposal.
Following that setback, the state decided to privatise Thomson SA in two parts, with a sale of Thomson-CSF first, followed by Thomson Multimedia, the loss-making consumer electronics unit, to speed up the process.
But the complex sale details mean any decision will only be made in the beginning of 1997, government officials said.
The Council of State, France's highest administrative court, ruled that the Thomson-CSF sale is covered under the 1986 act, after the government asked it to rule on the legal framework.
The court said that as Thomson-CSF constitutes an essential part of the assets of Thomson SA, the sale should be seen as a means of privatising the parent company, the finance ministry said in a statement.
"The privatisation of Thomson-CSF is covered, just as that of Thomson SA, by chapter II of the law of 6 August 1986 on privatisations," it said.
A number of possibilities have emerged for Thomson-CSF since the Privatisation Commission derailed the sale process.
Thomson-CSF's chairman Marcel Roulet and its executive committee have lobbied the Prime Minister Alain Juppe for a stock market flotation instead of selling it to an industrial company such as Lagardere.
A flotation would preserve Thomson-CSF's independence and would be faster than a "trade sale", a source close to the firm said. The company has all the financial details to hand and 42 percent of its capital is already traded on the stock market.
Floating Thomson-CSF would allow a faster restructuring of the defence industry, which was the aim of the privatisation move. It could still form alliances with other groups, such as the planned merger between aircraft companies Dassault Aviation and Aerospatiale.
Thomson-CSF wants a "clean" flotation, without the traditional cross-shareholding pact which protects companies from hostile takeovers. A flotation would also ensure clarity in the sale terms, a senior source close to Thomson said.
But Lagardere chairman Noel Forgeard argues a flotation could lead to a break up of Thomson-CSF as members of any shareholders pact would want to buy up parts of the business.
Australian resources and steel group The Broken Hill Pty Co (BHP) posted a 9.8-percent fall in first-half profits on Friday, disappointing the share market but avoiding another mauling by investors.
BHP, whose shares have been hammered since its key markets in steel and copper turned sour six months ago, posted a A$790 million (US$628 million) net profit for the six months to November 30, down from A$867 for the same period last year.
But Australia's largest quoted company had its bottom line boosted by an abnormal gain of A$107 million and investors were initially not impressed.
The share price were up 54 cents to a high of A$17.59 just after the result then took a tumble and settled at around A$17.20 in early afternoon trading.
But late buying across the board helped BHP, the market bellwether stock, recover ground and the stock closed at A$17.48, 43 three cents higher than Thursday's close.
"It's pretty lousy," one fund manager's stock analyst told Reuters soon after the release. Another analyst disappointed with the result said the resources giant was still on track for a modest profit recovery for the full year to May 31, 1997.
Though forecast signs of improvement emerged in BHP's battered copper division, with the North American copper operations swinging back into profit, analysts had been tipping a first-half group pre-abnormal result of around A$760 million.
BHP's pre-abnormal net profit of A$683 million was 15.8 percent down on the corresponding 1995/96 period.
But managing director John Prescott said the second quarter figures showed an accelerating improvement in performance and that, despite weak copper and steel prices, the group was still investing in future growth.
Citing a sharp jump in exploration expenditure in the half year, he told reporters: "That's an important part of sustaining our growth."
"I think we are moving ahead," he added. "We have a lot of work to do and we're going to build the company around its high-quality assets and we are starting to see the results of our work."
Including abnormals, BHP's minerals, copper and steel divisions all contributed higher earnings in the latest three months against the August quarter. The steel division was flat.
Petroleum was the biggest earner with A$253 million for the quarter, but this included an abnormal gain of A$107 million from the settlement of a dispute over a gas resource tax.
BHP Petroleum's pre-abormal result also included a A$82 million windfall from asset sales and a larger than expected exploration expense.
BHP's minerals division, a major world producer of iron ore and coal, doubled its contribution to profit in the second quarter to A$154 million, due largely to higher world prices.
BHP Copper benefitted from a recent firming in the copper price and a cut of seven U.S. cents per pound in its North American operating costs to post a second quarter profit of A$132 million, up from A$85 million in the first quarter.
The U.S. copper operations, acquired last January with the US$2.4 billion purchase of Magma Copper, made a loss on a full-cost basis in the first quarter. Prescott said on Friday Magma had swung back into profit in the second quarter.
BHP Steel's second-quarter profit was flat at A$90 million.
Australian resources and steel group The Broken Hill Pty Co (BHP) posted a 9.8-percent fall in first-half profits on Friday, further disappointing the share market after a difficult year.
BHP, whose shares have been hammered since its key markets in steel and copper turned sour six months ago, posted a A$790 million (US$628 million) net profit for the six months to November 30, down from A$867 for the same period last year.
But Australia's largest quoted company had its bottom line boosted by an abnormal gain of A$107 million and investors were not impressed.
The share price climbed 54 cents to a high of A$17.59 just after the result but took a tumble and settled at around A$17.20, still 15 cents higher than Thursday's close.
"It's pretty lousy," one fund manager's stock analyst told Reuters.
Though forecast signs of improvement emerged in BHP's battered copper division, with the North American copper operations swinging back into profit, analysts had been tipping a first-half group pre-abnormal result of around A$760 million.
BHP's pre-abnormal net profit of A$683 million was 15.8 percent down on the corresponding 1995/96 period.
But managing director John Prescott said the second quarter figures showed an accelerating improvement in performance.
"We are seeing an improvement in our operations quarter on quarter on quarter and the trend to improvement is accelerating," he said in a taped interview released to the media after the result.
"I think we are moving ahead. We have a lot of work to do and we're going to build the company around its high-quality assets and we are starting to see the results of our work."
Including abnormals, BHP's minerals, copper and steel divisions all contributed increased earnings in the latest three months compared with the August quarter. The steel division was flat.
Petroleum was the biggest earner with A$253 million for the quarter, but this included an abnormal gain of A$107 million from the settlement of a dispute over a gas resource tax.
BHP Petroleum's pre-abormal result also included a A$82 million windfall from asset sales and a larger than expected exploration expense.
"The initial reaction (to the result) was positive but this has been followed by disappointment," said Phillip Toop, a dealer at Brisbane broker Lance Jones.
BHP's minerals division, a major world producer of iron ore and coal, doubled its contribution to profit in the second quarter to A$154 million, due largely to higher world prices.
BHP Copper benefitted from a recent firming in the copper price and a cut of seven U.S. cents per pound in its North American operating costs to post a second quarter profit of A$132 million, up from A$85 million in the first quarter.
The U.S. copper operations, acquired last January with the US$2.4 billion purchase of Magma Copper, made a loss on a full-cost basis in the first quarter. Prescott said on Friday Magma had swung back into profit in the second quarter.
BHP Steel's second-quarter profit was flat at A$90 million.
Australian resources and steel group The Broken Hill Pty Co (BHP) disappointed the share market on Friday with a weaker than expected second-quarter profit to post first-half net earnings of A$683 million before abnormals.
BHP, whose shares have been hammered since its key markets in steel and copper turned sour six months ago, booked an abnormal gain of A$107 million to boost the bottom line for the six months to November 30, but investors were not impressed.
The crackdown on China's young stock markets has triggered huge losses in share values and highlighted problems, particularly widespread irregularities and the lack of a regulatory structure, analysts said on Friday.
The week of losses on the exchanges in the wake of a Beijing warning on speculation was also a re-run of the age-old Chinese boom-and-bust cycle: controls are relaxed, rule-breaking surges, the screws are tightened and the machine almost breaks.
"Widespread irregularities are partly a legacy of the old planned economy," said one economist. "But given the power of administrative edicts to influence the markets, some firms have no choice but to resort to irregularities to survive."
The sudden announcement of Beijing's wrath at the unruly stock markets, expressed in a People's Daily commentary on Monday, aimed to dampen speculative trading, but ironically could have the opposite effect, some analysts said.
"Policy changes have always been a key speculative topic on China's stock markets," said one trader. "To regulate the markets with official orders like this time might temporarily depress the speculative mood, but in longer term, it will further add weight to the speculative fever on policy shifts."
Market sources said that had Beijing used market means rather than administrative edicts to check the dangerous roller-coaster trend in share trading, the response of the markets would have been much less volatile.
As it was, Shanghai's domestic A share index plunged 20.07 percent to 922.34 points at the close of Friday's trading against Friday's close last week, while the foreign currency B index was down 3.84 percent to 63.743 points.
In Shenzhen, the A share index nosedived 29.07 percent on the week to 328.96 points, while the B index lost 15.94 percent to 125.56.
"Most investors are pessimistic about the short-term trend with turnover sharply down this week against last week," said one broker. "We had nearly no new accounts opened this week."
"The inflow of fresh money into A shares has almost stopped completely," a Shenzhen-based trader said. "Many investors are in despair seeing the price of their shares diving nearly every day."
Analysts said the dramatic changes this week sparked reflections on the bust-boom cycle which has dominated China's stock markets since they were re-established in 1990.
At its height, Shanghai's A share index had surged more than 100 percent and its Shenzhen counterpart over 300 percent since April when Beijing announced that it supported stock market development.
"The markets are poorly regulated," said one stock analyst. "One of the reasons for this is the lack of a national securities law governing the stock market."
The draft Securities Law, the topic of hot debate in the corridors of power in Beijing for years, is not expected to be enacted soon, analysts say.
Irregularities, including manipulation of selected share prices, have been rife in the Chinese markets for years.
In an effort to bring the industry to heel, authorities over the past month have punished branches of nearly all major state-run banks and securities houses for involvement in shady stock dealings.
China's futures markets, which fell deeper into the gloom of official disapproval in 1996, look set for an even tighter year in 1997 with some small exchanges likely to be swallowed by bigger ones, analysts said on Friday.
There is still no sign of the long-awaited Futures Law being unveiled, but the analysts said the securities authorities have promised some new regulations in the first half of 1997 to provide a stronger regulatory basis for futures trading.
The markets, set up in the early 1990s, quickly became casinos with huge trading on commodities with often very small physical quantities for delivery, making the use of the markets for hedging -- the original purpose -- virtually impossible, analysts said.
In the past two years, trading volumes on China's futures exchanges have plummeted in the face of a relentless campaign by the securities authorities in Beijing to squeeze speculative activity out of the markets.
"The official measures, especially the ban on many institutions from trading futures, have pushed large amounts of money out of the markets and dramatically pulled down trading volumes on most exchanges," a local futures analyst said.
The Shanghai Metal Exchange, which is the least speculative of the 14 futures exchanges left open, expects total trade volume of 230 billion yuan in 1996, down from 455.8 billion yuan in 1995 and a high of 682 billion yuan in 1994, an exchange official said.
The authorities have ruthlessly hounded the speculative "hot money" which used to chase its way round from Suzhou red beans to Zhengzhou green beans and Hainan coffee, and have largely succeeded in killing the enthusiasm of speculators for futures.
In March, the China's Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) banned securities brokerages, trust and investment firms and state-run enterprises from trading commodities futures, forcing many traders out of the industry, traders said.
All commodity futures exchanges have been ordered to cap daily price movements and total holdings.
In October, the CSRC also abolished limits on the total amounts of goods for physical delivery, which was used to make it possible for wealthy institutions to build up huge long positions and then short-squeeze the market.
"Beijing has stressed restrictions rather than development for the futures markets because officials are angry about the repeated violations of rules and rampant irregularities," a local trader for metal futures said.
"No new money is coming into the futures markets," he added. "There are several safer investment methods, such as stocks and treasure bonds. Why take the extra policy risk?"
"Few people will pay much more attention to China's futures markets until the long-awaited Futures Law is introduced, which will indicate that the government has accepted the industry," a second trader said.
"It will still take some time for the Futures Law to be completed," a local exchange official said. "But the CSRC has said it will announce five new rules for the industry in the first half of the next year to fill up the regulatory vacuum."
Analysts said some of China's 14 existing futures exchanges will probably be closed down, merged or taken over in 1997 as the authorities continue their efforts to clean up the industry.
It is believed the authorities want to end up with four or five big exchanges.
In October, China's securities authorities ordered the Changchun United Commodity Exchange to merge with the Beijing Commodity Exchange, which was seen as the first of an expected series of mergers of exchanges, the analysts said.
"There are too many exchanges in China with most of them trading similar contracts and trading volumes for most contracts are too thin for hedging," a Shanghai-based dealer said.
Japanese banks, still struggling under the weight of massive problem loans, now face tough decisions on how to adapt to expected structural changes to the country's economy and financial system, analysts say.
They say it is inevitable the banks will need to shift their focus towards creating new business and offering specific services to boost profits as demand for loans weakens.
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto's "Big Bang" financial reform plans unveiled last month to liberalise Japan's financial markets by 2001 will also accelerate competition.
"To increase profitability, Japanese banks must change the sources of their profits," said Koyo Ozeki, a director at international credit rating agency IBCA Ltd.
On Thursday, the Finance Ministry announced sweeping plans to deregulate Japan's foreign exchange market in 1998.
Eisuke Sakakibara, director-general of the ministry's International Finance Bureau, warned that Japanese banks will face intensified competition as a result of the deregulation.
"I hope Japanese financial institutions will be well prepared for severe competition in the future," he said.
Tight regulation, dating back to the end of World War Two, has protected Japanese banks from competition and has made them less efficient than Western rivals, analysts say.
And because of that, some analysts such as Shinji Okabe, senior credit officer at rating agency Moody's Japan, are pessimistic about the future of Japanese banks.
"It seems to me that Japanese banks cannot judge which business is profitable... It looks like the banks all think they can do everything with unlimited resources," he said.
Since the early 1990s, Japanese banks have written off problem loans resulting from their adventurous lending policies in the late 1980 "bubble economy" of inflated asset prices.
But as of the end of September, 20 major banks were still carrying 23 trillion yen ($201 billion) worth of problem loans.
Analysts say it will take two more years on average for the top 20 banks to cut the loans to manageable levels, giving foreign banks further chances to to nudge into the market.
"Foreign banks have expanded and strengthened their business base in the past decade, but Japanese banks were not able to do anything because they had to dispose of the problem loans," said IBCA's Ozeki.
Japan's 20 biggest banks, down from 21 after a merger in April between Bank of Tokyo and Mitsubishi Bank, posted 22.85 trillion yen ($200 billion) in parent operating profits in an eight-year period to the end of March this year.
During that time they also disposed of 21.7 trillion yen ($190 billion) in problem loans, Ozeki said.
Even profitability at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, which many analysts agree is the strongest Japanese candidate to become an internationally competitive bank, is low.
The bank's return on equity, a gauge to show the efficiency of the use of capital, is only about 7.2 percent, compared with Barclays Plc's 13.09 percent and Bankers Trust's 18.32 percent, an IBCA study showed.
Analysts say they expect more bank failures in Japan, particularly among smaller regional banks and credit unions.
In November, Japanese authorities ordered the regional Hanwa Bank to halt business, the third regional bank failure since the end of World War Two. Eleven smaller credit unions and associations have also gone under since December 1994.
Analysts said uncertainty over how to deal with troubled banks has not been entirely removed in Japan, and there remains some concern that larger and stronger banks may be drawn into the support mechanism at some cost to themselves.
Japanese banks to which Moody's has given a bank financial strength rating (BFSR) of "E" are financially weak, Okabe said.
Chuo Trust &amp; Banking and Yasuda Trust &amp; Banking, Hokkaido Takushoku Bank and Nippon Credit Bank are the E rated banks.
"There are no U.S. banks which received an E rating. Banks with E ratings are those which have been supported (in Japan's regulated system) despite their inefficiency," he said. ($1=114 yen)
China is poised to take a major step in reversing democratic reform in Hong Kong by creating a new legislature to replace the territory's elected body when Beijing resumes control of the British colony next year.
The die will be cast on Saturday when 400 Hong Kong people, carefully screened by China, meet over the border in the city of Shenzhen to appoint 60 legislators who will make Hong Kong's laws from July 1.
The "provisional legislature" will be installed after China disbands the elected Legislative Council (Legco) in a move to roll back political reforms introduced by Beijing's nemesis, departing colonial governor Chris Patten, since 1992.
The body that will choose the new parliamentarians is the Selection Committee, which also elected Tung Chee-hwa, a 59-year-old shipping tycoon with strong pro-Beijing loyalties, to succeed Patten as chief executive of the territory of 6.3 million people.
China resumes control of Hong Kong at midnight on June 30 next year, ending more than 150 years of British rule.
The Hong Kong public, who voted resoundingly for pro-democracy groups in Legco elections last year, have had no vote in the two selection processes organised by China and no say in the decision to remove the elected legislature.
The Sino-British quarrel over the provisional legislature set Tung and Patten on a collision course this week.
"A quarter of those who are lining up for jobs in this institution were beaten in regular elections ... It will be a blot on the first months of Chinese rule," Patten told a newspaper. "This echo chamber has no place in the political or administrative life of Hong Kong ... We will have nothing to do with it any form."
Tung responded in a speech to the business community by saying Britain must "face the reality" of the new legislature. He warned that if its legitimacy was challenged further he would get China's parliament to legislate on its legality.
Hong Kong's biggest pro-democracy group, the Democratic Party, is boycotting the selection process, which it brands as a plot to snuff out democracy and enact repressive laws.
"You won't find five of them who can be called democrats by any stretch of the imagination," Democratic Party leader Martin Lee told Reuters, commenting on the candidates.
The Democratic Party has expelled a rebel member, Dominic Chan, because he broke ranks to run for the new assembly.
The party is organising two days of protests against the provisional legislature, and China has beefed up security on the border in case demonstrators try to cross into Shenzhen, local media quoted Chinese sources as saying.
The Selection Committee will choose the 60 members of the provisional legislature from a list of 130 candidates.
Pro-Beijing parties fielding candidates denied critics' allegations this week that they had negotiated the result of the voting in advance in under-the-table horse-trading.
"There is definitely no carve-up of seats," said Liberal Party leader Allen Lee.
Each Selection Commitee member will vote by endorsing up to 60 names from among the candidates. The top 60 candidates -- those listed the most times -- will be appointed to the provisional legislature.
Among the candidates are 34 incumbent legislators, raising the prospect that Legco could be crippled well before Chinese rule, because the two legislatures' schedules could clash.
A poll by Hong Kong University indicated on Thursday that one-third of the public support the concept of the new legislature and one-quarter trust the Chinese government.
Thumbing its nose at Britain, China brought Hong Kong's elected legislature a step closer to oblivion on Saturday when it founded a new lawmaking body to take over next July when it takes back the colony.
The birth of the Provisional Legislative Council in the frontier city of Shenzhen brought Hong Kong to a crucial turning point in its journey towards Chinese rule at midnight next June 30 and opened the way for a possible clash in the world court.
The body, stuffed with pro-China politicians and tycoons, was attacked by Britain, Washington and local protesters. London challenged China to let the International Court of Justice in The Hague rule on its legality.
The legislative body is a big crease in Sino-British relations that could cause instability in the territory in the run-up to the handover, now less than 200 days away.
The speaker of Hong Kong's Legislative Council and 32 other incumbent lawmakers were among the 60 members chosen by a 400-member China-controlled Selection Committee.
Congratulating the 60, Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen declared the contest had been "just, fair, open and based on democratic principles" and had the approval of a wide spectrum of Hong Kong society.
Dominic Chan, recently expelled from the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest, also grabbed a seat. The Democratic Party has boycotted the selection as anti-democratic.
The winners included pro-China politicians such as Tsang Yok-sing, Elsie Tu and Peggy Lam, who were routed in 1995 Legco elections when more than a million people went to the polls and voted resoundingly for pro-democracy forces.
Pro-democracy groups staged noisy protests in Hong Kong declaring the Shenzhen meeting a "fake election" and a "black day for democracy". They launched 50 helium-filled balloons into China with a protest banner attached.
"Today we will have two legislatures...This is a constitutional crisis," said the Democratic Party's Andrew Cheng, a current legislator.
Beijing's communist rulers are bent on imposing themselves firmly on Hong Kong and on ending 150 years of national shame over the forced cession of the territory to Britain in 19th century wars over the opium trade.
Governor Chris Patten, who has introduced elements of democracy in this territory of 6.3 million people over the past four years, denounced the Shenzhen vote as a "bizarre farce".
"The reality is that over a million people in Hong Kong voted for the present Legislative Council. And up over the border now, 400 people -- 400 -- are voting for a so-called provisional legislature," Patten said on Saturday.
Dorothy Liu Yiu-chu, a Hong Kong member of China's parliament -- the National People's Congress -- and the Selection Committee, dissented and stayed away from the vote.
"I am sick. This is the official reason from the point of view of the Selection Committee. But I know, and I don't mind letting the world know, the real reason is that I don't agree to the establishment of the provisional legislature," she said.
Earlier this month she took part in the committee's first task, selecting shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa as Patten's successor.
Tung dismissed Britain's suggestion of world court arbitration on Saturday, saying: "We cannot have a legal vacuum in 1997. This is a great day for Hong Kong."
China's official spokesman in Hong Kong, Zhang Junsheng, said Britain's challenge would not undermine the provisional legislature's authority.
"Establishing the provisional legislature is an internal affair of China. If Britain demands international arbitration it is absurd and ignorant," Zhang told the Mad Dog Daily.
The U.S. Consul-General in Hong Kong, Richard Boucher, called the legislature vote "a backward step".
"We think it's a bad idea and a mistake," Boucher said. "I don't think we would describe it as an open and fair election which is an essential part of Hong Kong's future stability and future business environment."
Democratic Party leader Martin Lee has vowed to seek a court injunction against the provisional body if it meets in Hong Kong before July 1.
"If this sham legislature is lawful, why not appoint it and have it meet in Hong Kong, where the Supreme Court can decide on its legality," Lee said on Friday.
China rejected a British challenge to take it to the World Court and staged a vote on Saturday to set up a Hong Kong parliament that will oust elected lawmakers when Beijing recovers the territory next July.
Under heavy security and in a hall decked with red curtains and the Chinese communist red crest with five stars, an elite of 400 carefully chosen Hong Kong electors met in the Chinese city of Shenzhen to pick new legislators for the territory.
The members of the China-controlled Selection Committee cast ballots for the 60-seat legislature in big red envelopes.
They were choosing from 130 pro-Beijing candidates who had been screened by China's representatives in Hong Kong before the selection ballot.
Each elector could list up to 60 names from among the 130 hopefuls, who include 34 incumbent lawmakers.
The result, to be announced later on Saturday, is likely to be denounced by Britain and some of its allies as a travesty of democracy and a breach of handover agreements.
Britain is handing Hong Kong back to China at midnight next June 30 under a treaty that promises the territory of 6.3 million people can keep for 50 years its capitalist system.
Presiding over the gathering in Shenzhen, Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen attempted to shoot down Britain's World Court threat and said London should wake up to reality.
"What is regrettable is that Britain has lacked the courage to face reality," Qian said in a speech before the voting.
"This election should have been held in Hong Kong, but because of Britain's refusal to cooperate we had no choice but to hold it here in Shenzhen."
On Friday, British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind challenged China to go to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to prove the legality of its so-called provisional legislature.
Hong Kong's colonial Governor Chris Patten also attacked the proposed legislature, calling it a "rubber stamp" and an "echo chamber".
China is creating the body in retaliation for democratic reforms introduced by Patten. The reforms enlarged the mass franchise when the present Legislative Council (Legco) was elected last year with a landslide for pro-democracy forces.
Saturday's vote was a turning point in Hong Kong's future and moved Legco a step closer to oblivion.
Events are moving apace, with less than 200 days to go before the change of flag. Ten days ago the Selection Committee chose Tung Chee-hwa, a 59-year-old shipping magnate with strong pro-Beijing loyalties, to succeed Patten next July 1.
The Hong Kong public has had no say in who should be their first Chinese leader and lawmakers after the British withdrawal. Nor have they had a say in the removal of their elected legislators.
A survey this week showed only a third of Hong Kong people backed the provisional legislature and only a quarter trusted China.
The creation of the interim lawmaking body in Shenzhen was conducted amid tight security.
Trucks towed away suspicious cars hours before the meeting began and guards with binoculars were posted atop the building across the street from the voting hall.
Some of more than 100 journalists, many of whom arrived on Friday, were detained for up to an hour while their travel documents were verified by Chinese border guards.
Ford Motor Co. on Friday became the second of the U.S. Big Three automakers to align itself with the emerging auto superstore trend by announcing a new agreement with Republic Industries Inc., the parent company of AutoNation USA.
Under the agreement, AutoNation can submit proposals to acquire existing Ford or Lincoln-Mercury dealerships. The pact also covers areas Ford may want a dealership where it does not currently have one.
The move could have implications for the future of Ohio-based Mullinax Management, one of the largest dealer groups in the country, which is reported to be in merger talks with AutoNation.
Ford spokesman John Ochs said Ford has not sold any dealerships to AutoNation. A spokesman for Mullinax, based in Amherst, Ohio, could not be reached for comment.
Mullinax, which owns several large Ford dealerships, was the 11th largest dealer group in the country, based on its 1995 retail unit sales of 20,374 cars and trucks, according to industry trade publication Automotive News.
Last month, published reports began to surface on talks between Mullinax and AutoNation. The growing auto superstore chain was founded by Wayne Huizenga, who transformed Blockbuster Video into a multibillion-dollar business and owns the Miami Dolphins professional football team.
Ford's deal with Republic is a "framework agreement" that opens the door for AutoNation to submit individual proposals, Ochs said. In a statement, Robert Rewey, Ford's group vice president of marketing and sales, said the automaker believed private entrepreneurs with local community ties will continue to be the "backbone" of its franchise system.
"However, there will continue to be developments in the industry relating to other types of dealership ownership and distribution methods," he said. "We are working diligently to ensure that the new operators fit into our franchise system."
That is a change from last February, when Ford Chairman Alex Trotman told the National Automotible Dealers Association it had no plans to offer a new-car franchise to an auto superstore.
A year ago, Chrysler Corp. announced it would grant a new-car franchise to CarMax Auto Superstore in Norcross, Ga. CarMax is owned by consumer electronics giant Circuit City Stores Inc..
The move sent a shockwave through the traditional auto dealer industry, which had already been warily watching the growth of chains such as CarMax and AutoNation in the used-car segment of the business.
The new superstores quickly have become popular with consumers because they offer large numbers of newer used cars at haggle-free prices in a pressure-free environment.
The Ford announcement signals the superstores will continue to build a presence in the new-car business, analysts said. "That's big news," said William Sawyer, vice president of sales in the Detroit office of Polk, a marketing research firm. "It's definitely a change for Ford."
The move is also noteworthy, he said, because Ford has traditionally been opposed to publicly traded companies owning its franchises.
General Motors Corp. is the last of the Big Three to not have any franchise agreements with an auto superstore. GM spokesman Edward Lechtzin said the automaker was not opposed to the concept and has held talks with those groups in the past.
"We've held discussions. We'll continue to hold discussions. If one of them wants to purchase a GM dealership, we'll review it," he said.
Apple Computer Inc. Friday agreed to acquire NeXT Software Inc. for $400 million, a stunning move that reunites the computer company with its co-founder, Steven Jobs.
The acquisition will give Apple the software technology it needs to revamp the Macintosh personal computer, which has lost much of its technological luster to PCs running software from Microsoft Corp.
"The Mac has provided the innovation that the industry has been feeding off for the last 10 years," Jobs said. "It's time for someone to come up with innovation to drive the industry forward. Who better than Apple?"
Apple Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said the company will pay $350 million, mostly in cash and a little stock, for Redwood City, Calif.-based NeXT. Apple also will pay off NeXT's $50 million debt.
Jobs, who founded Apple with a friend in his garage 20 years ago, led Apple through its early years until he was fired by the company's board in 1985.
Apple said he will come back to Apple part-time to lead an effort to rewrite the fundamental software of the Macintosh. He will report to Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio.
Apple will base much of its next-generation operating system -- the computer program that controls the basic function of the Mac -- on Nextstep.
NeXT's technology will not only provide many of the software bells and whistles that Apple needs to compete with Microsoft's Windows, but will attract outside software companies to write more titles for the Mac, Amelio said.
"Without question, the technology at NeXT was the superior technology, by a significant amount," Amelio said.
Apple had been for months looking outside for help after having abandoned an unfinished operating system code-named "Copland."
The company looked at operating system technology and multimedia software from companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc. and closely held Be Inc.
Amelio said with NeXT's existing technology, he hopes Apple will have a new operating system in 1997.
For Jobs, the cheerleader who instilled an attitude in Apple that the company was out to change the world, the merger is another stop in a strange odyssey.
After being fired by his successor John Sculley in 1985, he left to found NeXT, which initially made a line of whiz-bang computers.
When NeXT ran into financial trouble in the late 1980s, the company dropped its computers to concentrate on software. In the past two years, NeXT has been selling a line of reasonably successful software for creating sites on the Internet's World Wide Web.
Meanwhile, Jobs helped co-found Pixar Animation Studios, a production studio that uses powerful computers instead of drawings. The company made last year's hit "Toy Story."
Jobs said he will continue to run Pixar.
When Apple Computer Inc. fired co-founder Steven Jobs in 1985, Apple employees did not know whether to cry or to rejoice.
Through the early 1980s, Jobs had inspired Apple engineers to create a computer called the Macintosh which would change the world. At the same time, though, Jobs and his mercurial temper burned out many of the same engineers who adorded him.
On Friday, more than 11 years after Jobs was ousted in a stunning boardroom coup, Apple took a huge gamble by bringing him back.
His assignment is to help the Cupertinto, California-based computer company revamp the software behind the Macintosh, an effort that had been mired for three years.
The bet is that Jobs is the only person who can inspire Apple's demoralized programmers to create software that would leapfrog Microsoft Corp's competing Windows operating system.
"He will help tremendously," said Randy Wigginton, a former Apple programmer who worked under Jobs to write the software of the original Mac. "Steve is incredibly bright, talented, amusing."
On Friday, as word of Apple's decision to rehire Jobs spread, shares of the company rose $1.25 or 5.6 percent, to $23.50.
Job's new company, NeXT Software Inc., which Apple agreed to acquire on Friday for $400 million, offers a computer operating system that has many of the software bells and whistles Apple has been looking for to catch up with rival Microsoft.
Apple had tried to reach a deal with closely held software company Be Inc., founded by another former Apple executive, Jean-Louis Gassee, but the talks broke down and the company turned to Jobs for help.
With NeXT's existing technology, Apple hopes to finish the overhaul of its popular Macintosh operating system -- the type of program that controls the fundamental functions of a computer -- in late 1997.
But the key asset that Apple acquired is Jobs. He will serve part-time as a technology adviser and will report to Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio.
Several Apple programmers working on the Mac overhaul said they have been frustrated for months with a string of weak managers who could not get the project past a rough sketch even after three years. With Jobs, the programmers said, they hope the project can finally move forward.
"Everybody is excited," said an Apple employee close to the project. "I am very excited."
The risk of hiring Jobs is his volatility. People who have worked for him said Jobs has a knack for inspiring engineers to think that their work is a life-or-death project, a sentiment Apple now needs. But the same sentiment can burn engineers out.
"In some ways he has mellowed, but he still has an incessant drive for perfection," said Joanna Hoffman, the Mac's first marketing manager.
Jobs could not be reached on Saturday for comment. On Friday he told reporters he was looking forward to rejoining the company he co-founded nearly 20 years ago out of his parent's garage.
"I feel very lucky to be a part-time Apple employee and work for Gil and advise him on product strategy."
Jobs also will work with Apple Chief Technical Officer Ellen Hancock, a veteran International Business Machines Corp. software manager who has set specific goals for the operating system team.
Jobs' visionary role and Hancock's strict, no-nonsense management style balance nicely, said Tim Bajarin, analyst at market researcher Creative Strategies Research.
When Apple Computer Inc. fired co-founder Steven Jobs in 1985, Apple employees did not know whether to cry or to rejoice.
Through the early 1980s, Jobs had inspired Apple engineers to create a computer called the Macintosh which would change the world. At the same time, though, Jobs and his mercurial temper burned out many of the same engineers who adorded him.
On Friday, more than 11 years after Jobs was ousted in a stunning boardroom coup, Apple took a huge gamble by bringing him back.
His assignment is to help the Cupertinto, California-based computer company revamp the software behind the Macintosh, an effort that had been mired for three years.
The bet is that Jobs is the only person who can inspire Apple's demoralised programmers to create software that would leapfrog Microsoft Corp's competing Windows operating system.
"He will help tremendously," said Randy Wigginton, a former Apple programmer who worked under Jobs to write the software of the original Mac. "Steve is incredibly bright, talented, amusing."
On Friday, as word of Apple's decision to rehire Jobs spread, shares of the company rose $1.25 or 5.6 percent, to $23.50.
Job's new company, NeXT Software Inc., which Apple agreed to acquire on Friday for $400 million, offers a computer operating system that has many of the software bells and whistles Apple has been looking for to catch up with rival Microsoft.
Apple had tried to reach a deal with closely held software company Be Inc., founded by another former Apple executive, Jean-Louis Gassee, but the talks broke down and the company turned to Jobs for help.
With NeXT's existing technology, Apple hopes to finish the overhaul of its popular Macintosh operating system -- the type of programme that controls the fundamental functions of a computer -- in late 1997.
But the key asset that Apple acquired is Jobs. He will serve part-time as a technology adviser and will report to Apple Chairman Gilbert Amelio.
Several Apple programmers working on the Mac overhaul said they have been frustrated for months with a string of weak managers who could not get the project past a rough sketch even after three years. With Jobs, the programmers said, they hope the project can finally move forward.
"Everybody is excited," said an Apple employee close to the project. "I am very excited."
The risk of hiring Jobs is his volatility. People who have worked for him said Jobs has a knack for inspiring engineers to think that their work is a life-or-death project, a sentiment Apple now needs. But the same sentiment can burn engineers out.
"In some ways he has mellowed, but he still has an incessant drive for perfection," said Joanna Hoffman, the Mac's first marketing manager.
Jobs could not be reached on Saturday for comment. On Friday he told reporters he was looking forward to rejoining the company he co-founded nearly 20 years ago out of his parent's garage.
"I feel very lucky to be a part-time Apple employee and work for Gil and advise him on product strategy."
Jobs also will work with Apple Chief Technical Officer Ellen Hancock, a veteran International Business Machines Corp. software manager who has set specific goals for the operating system team.
Jobs' visionary role and Hancock's strict, no-nonsense management style balance nicely, said Tim Bajarin, analyst at market researcher Creative Strategies Research.
Electronic commerce over the Internet - buying airplane tickets, music CDs, or clothes with a credit card - is not fiction anymore.
But security and other concerns hampered the Internet from becoming an international shopping mall in 1996, and security remains an issue for 1997.
Electronic commerce in 1996 was not quite as robust as some firms had anticipated, as delays in developing the software to secure credit card transactions on the Net kept merchants and consumers at bay. E-commerce is still in its infancy and likely to explode toward the end of the century.
"This was kind of a building year," said Scott Smith, a Jupiter Communications analyst. "Many consumers are just starting to get online, merchants are trying to still figure out how to present themselves online."
According to Jupiter, total revenues generated from all consumer shopping over the Internet and online services will reach about $1.2 billion in 1996. The revenues are expected to almost double next year, to $2.3 billion.
Jupiter, a New York market research firm, forecasts 1999 revenues to jump to $5.5 billion and to $7.3 billion in 2000.
Travel and the direct distribution of electronic products, such as PCs, software, etc., are the two biggest categories of electronic commerce right now, Smith said, with travel making up about half of the $1.2 billion in 1996 commerce revenues.
Most of the giant retailers are sitting by the sidelines, watching and waiting for the security to be in place and to see what some of the catalog merchants and other more daring retailers are doing on the Internet, where there are many opportunities to save costs, keep inventories low and target customers with specific products aimed at their profiles.
"It's inventing whole new ways of selling stuff," said Irving Wladawsky-Berger, the head of International Business Machines Corp.'s Internet division.
IBM has developed a shopping mall called World Avenue, where mostly speciality retailers have storefronts.It also includes Express, the popular unit of Limited Inc.
But still, Internet shopping is not viewed by consumers as completely safe. A recent study by O'Reilly &amp; Associates of Sebastopol, Calif., reported that fewer than 1 percent of all public World Wide Web sites are fully able to host secure transactions.
"It's easy enough to know that if you get a warning from your browser that what you are about to do is dangerous...that this is a deterrant," said Richard Peck, a vice president at O'Reilly "Commerce readiness is an issue of consumer trust, confidence."
Credit card companies MasterCard International and Visa International have been working together since last February on software to secure credit card transactions, using data encryption (scrambling) techniques and authentication software to ensure identities of the consumer, the merchant and the Web site.
But the software development is behind, analysts and industry executives said, even though the protocols (the roadmap for software developers) called the SET (secure electronic transaction) specification have been published.
The companies had said in February they expected banks to be able to offer secure bankcard services via the Internet to their cardholders in the fourth quarter 1996.
"They have totally blown that deadline out of the water," Smith of Jupiter said. "There was a bit of hype about it originally that made people think it would be done really fast." Smith said the development has many diverse layers.
"There are issues that have to be sorted out. It probably won't be until 1998 when it is fully implemented," Smith said.
Visa did not return a call seeking comment. A spokesman for MasterCard in Purchase, N.Y. said that the companies remain "on track" with their original timeframes, but that MasterCard had no news since a recent announcement.
Last month, MasterCard purchased 51 percent of Mondex International Inc., a leading electronic payment system using a payment card called a smart card, which are like electronic wallets. A group of banks and AT&amp;T endorsed the electronic cash card, with pilot testing already going on in some cities.
Smart cards will likely become one of the many ways consumers pay for purchases online. PCs will have built-in smart card readers, specifically designed for online buys.
So while the SET software is still in development, companies are finding other ways to do transactions.
CyberCash, which is also a partner working on the SET transaction system, is providing encryption software for America Online Inc's Web hosting service, so that small or large companies selling goods can have a secure credit card payment system, based on data encryption software currently available.
"SET isn't really all there yet," said Doug McKee, manager of Web server development at AOL. "Cybercash has a system that is like a proprietary version of SET...I don't think there is a reason to wait."
Some companies are not waiting. While the big retail giants slowly enter cyberspace, a new breed of Internet retailers and brands are being born, like Amazon.com, the popular site bookseller and Onsale.com, an auction house for computers and consumer electronics goods.
China will accelerate listings of new firms on its two stock markets next year to meet demand and curb speculation, a senior securities official said.
His remarks, published on Sunday, came a week after an official statement warned investors away from excessive speculation, triggering a steep sell-off on the Shanghai and southern Shenzhen stock exchanges.
However, an official of the top securities watchdog, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, sounded another note of caution, saying that the markets needed even tighter regulation because of insider trading, excessive speculation and trading on margin.
"It will remain at the top of our work agenda for a fairly long period of time to further supervise the stock market, and curb over-speculation and irregularities ... to better protect the interests of the smaller investors," Xinhua quoted the unidentified official as saying.
Since the People's Daily editorial one week ago, Shanghai's domestic A share index has tumbled 20.07 percent, standing at 922.34 points last Friday compared with 1,163.05 at the close a week before.
The foreign currency B index fell 3.84 percent to 63.743 points from 66.291 points a week ago after a roller-coaster five days of trading.
China would move more swiftly to list additional firms on the markets, in line with the recent market upswings, Xinhua quoted Zhang Dongsheng, a deputy director of the Finance and Banking Department of the State Planning Commission, as saying.
"This is part of the nation's effort to balance supply and demand in the stock market and curb excessive speculation," Zhang said.
Last week China announced a share quota of 10 billion yuan ($1.2 billion) for 1996 and to be carried over into 1997, almost double the 5.5 billion yuan approved for the previous year.
Analysts said one aim of the decision to flood the fledgling stock markets with new issues was to soak up excess funds that have fuelled a flurry of speculation in recent months.
At its height just a few days ago, Shanghai's domestic A share index had surged more than 100 percent and its Shenzhen counterpart over 300 percent since April, when Beijing announced that it supported development of the stock markets.
In a sign of soaring interest in securities, official figures show 21 million Chinese have now opened trading accounts, up from just 12 million at the start of the year and rocketing from 14 million in September, Xinhua said.
The rapidly growing number of stock investors had caused the market to overheat on a shortage of supply, resulting in runaway price rises and excessive speculation, Xinhua said.
"The current market size allows some institutional investors to manipulate the stock prices and drive them up to ridiculous highs," it quoted Cao Fengqi, a financial expert at prestigious Beijing University, as saying.
"An accelerated expansion of the Chinese stock market will boost the capital market and help pool more funds for capital-strapped enterprises," he said.
Speculation could be curbed only if the market was big enough to handle demand, he added.
Beijing, which says its stock exchanges and futures markets are experiments, was committed to the markets, Xinhua said.
Current market capitalisation of more than 1.33 trillion yuan, almost triple the 1995 figure, accounts for 18 percent of China's gross domestic product, compared with six percent at the end of last year, Xinhua added. ($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Apple Computer Inc.'s rehiring of company co-founder Steve Jobs and purchase of NeXT Software Inc. will give it a much-needed operating system, but analysts warned Monday the deal might not be enough to boost the computer maker's market share or bottom line.
"(The move) has a lot of PR value, but it looks to me that the company still has a strategic mess on its hand with $400 million less," said John Rossi, an analyst at the Robertson Stephens &amp; Co. brokerage in San Francisco.
Apple said Friday it would pay $400 million to buy NeXT and rehire NeXT founder Jobs, Apple's mercurial co-founder, as part of a plan to revamp the Macintosh computer.
Apple bought NeXT because it needs an operating system -- the program that controls a computer's basic functions -- after its own attempt failed.
While NeXT's existing technology helps Apple make up for lost time and provides a decent foundation for a new operating system, the technology is not dazzling enough to set the Macintosh apart from computers running Microsoft Corp.'s Windows software, analysts said.
"Trying to prop up the brand name with a psychological hire is not going to solve Apple's problems," said one Wall Street analyst who asked not to be identified.
Analysts note that NeXT has failed to make any dent in the consumer computer market on its own. The company sold only 50,000 computers in four years as a hardware manufacturer before it focused entirely on software.
Some analysts also are disappointed that Apple chose NeXT over Be Inc., a closely held software company founded by another former Apple executive, Jean-Louis Gassee.
"I saw Be's technology. I was wowed by it," Rossi said. Be had many features that would have appealed to Macintosh customers, who do a lot of graphics design, video and image editing and desktop publishing. NeXT, Rossi said, "is aged" in comparison.
Still, Apple needed to come up with a technological blueprint to persuade outside software companies not to abandon the Macintosh.
By making no secret they were shopping around for technology, Apple's management had essentially told their customers the current Macintosh system was a dead end, analysts said.
If Apple had taken much longer to present its plan, Macintosh software developers would have begun to look for other ways to make a living.
"The technology direction implicit in the acquisition is a good one," said Ike Nassi, a former Apple executive and computer scientist who headed the software development effort.
Some investors agreed. Apple shares rose 12.5 cents to $23.625 in afternoon Nasdaq trading. The shares jumped $1.25 to $23.50 Friday as word spread of Apple's decision to buy NeXT, based in Redwood City, Calif.
Analysts said they may have to wait months to get a clearer picture from Apple about what the combination of NeXT and Apple software will look like.
"Merging operating systems is not a simple task," said Peter Andrew, an analyst at brokerage AG Edwards.
And it is still unclear where Apple will get the software expertise to include key features in the new operating system.
For example, neither Apple nor NeXT's software is efficient at handling several tasks simultaneously, such as recalculating a spreadsheet while faxing a document and updating stock quotes on the screen.
"There are many issues about how the NeXT operating system can revitalize the Mac," said Richard Zwetchkenbaum, an analyst at market researcher International Data Corp.
Apple executives are expected to give more technological details about their plan Jan. 7 at the MacWorld trade show in San Francisco.
Daniel Kunstler, an analyst with investment bank JP Morgan's San Francisco office, said Jobs, even if he helps Apple comes up with a brilliant operating system quickly, cannot save Apple alone.
"My investment thesis on Apple hinges on a lot of mileposts," including reporting a decent Christmas quarter this year and revamping its entire product line in 1997, Kunstler said. Finding an operating system was just one milepost, he said.
"The PC industry is one of the most dynamic and competitive in the world, and this announcement underscores that fact," said Microsoft spokesman Mark Murray. "We look forward to watching their efforts and competing in the marketplace."
He pointed out that Microsoft has been the biggest developer of applications for the Macintosh platform over the past 15 years.
"Until Apple provides more details on their future plans, it's going to be hard for anyone to say how they will partner with or support this new venture," he said. But he added that Microsoft would take a "hard look" at any new system, depending on customer demand.
Mercantile Bancorp Inc's planned $1.07 billion purchase price for Roosevelt Financial Group Inc and an expected merger-related charge of $25-$30 million after tax both appear reasonable for an in-market deal, analysts said Monday.
The St. Louis-based bank holding company said it expects to take the charge in the quarter the deal closes.
"For a deal this size, I think, it's probably relatively modest," analyst Steve Schroll at Piper Jaffray said.  
Roosevelt, a $9 billion thrift holding company also located in St. Louis, has 83 branches, 73 of which overlap with Mercantile, Schroll said.
The banks told analysts they expect to eliminate 50 of the overlapping branches by the middle of 1998, he said, adding that Mercantile also expects to cut 37 percent of Roosevelt's pre-tax cost base by 1999.
In a news conference, Mercantile would not specifically say how many branches would be shut.  
The cost reductions help justify the $1.07 billion price tag, which is about 11 times 1997 earnings estimates for Roosevelt, Schroll said.
"It's reasonable," Schroll said. "For an in-market deal, because of the opportunities to save costs, it's reasonable."
With its recently announced plan to acquire Mark Twain Bancshares Inc for $855 million, Mercantile will be the largest financial institution in Missouri, with $30 billion in assets once both deals close.
That could make Mercantile, often mentioned as a takeover candidate, even more attractive.  
"I'd say Merc was already attractive anyway," said Joseph Stieven, a banking analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, which advised Roosevelt on the deal. "This makes them no less attractive."
Joseph Roberto, a banking analyst at Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods, said, "I think it makes Mercantile more attractive. It gives them the number one market share across the state."
But the process of closing the two deals, expected in the second quarter, and absorbing the acquisitions could take Mercantile out of play as an acquisition target in the short term, analysts said.
"I would think in the short term, an acquisition of this size, when combined with the acquisition of Mark Twain, probably delays the likelihood of somebody from outside coming in to buy Mercantile," Schroll said.
Meanwhile, St. Louis-based Magna Group Inc and Kansas City, Missouri-based Commerce Bancshares Inc could become more attractive for suitors looking to buy in the Missouri market, analysts said.
((--Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787)).
Global paper and packaging group Amcor Ltd announced on Monday a rare slide in annual profit, blaming weak world paper prices and flat economic growth at home, but its shares held firm on the promise of recovery.
The result, which was Amcor's first fall in pre-abnormal profit in over a decade, failed to rock the blue-chip's battered share price, which had already fallen heavily in the past six months in anticipation of a weak outcome.  
"Potentially, the worst is over and you are looking forward to increased earnings here on in," a Sydney-based broker told Reuters after Amcor reported a six percent drop in net profit to A$338.8 million in the year to June 30.
Amcor's paper division was hit by a roughly 20 percent fall in world paper prices since late calendar 1995, and weak economic activity in Australia and Germany impacted heavily on its packaging operations, the company said.
But Amcor suggested that paper prices had bottomed out and said it hoped to see signs of an upturn in 1997.  
"Paper prices ... appear to have bottomed, all Amcor businesses have restructuring and cost-reduction programmes underway and there are new business opportunities in all regions," Amcor managing director Don Macfarlane told reporters.
The stock market, which shaved over A$2.00 off Amcor's year-high share price this year, initially pushed the shares higher on Monday before late selling pulled them to a close of A$7.62, down 12 cents on Friday's close, in a falling market.
"I don't think sentiment towards the stock is going to change in the near term," said one Melbourne-based analyst.  
"Profit will be flat towards the end of the (current 1996/97) year and then start to pick up into the new year," she added, predicting that a recovery in Australian economic growth will begin to spur Amcor's earnings in 1997/98.
Amcor, one of the world's top-10 paper and packaging companies and for many years a favourite of the local bourse, signalled a major cost-cutting drive and a reduction in capital expenditure to restore margins, especially in packaging.  
The packaging business, which makes products ranging from plastic beverage bottles and breakfast-cereal boxes to carboard boxes, suffered squeezed profit margins in Australia and New Zealand, and poor results in Germany.
Its Holfeder box-making business in Germany posted another undisclosed loss in 1996/97. "The level of confidence in the German economy is abysmal," Amcor's Macfarlane said.
The group's U.S. operations also "dragged its feet" but its British packaging business posted excellent results, he said.  
Amcor's Asian packaging operations posted higher profit, despite paper prices in the region "sinking like a stone" this year and dragging carboard-box prices with them, he said.
"It's been a rollar-coaster ride on paper prices in Asia," he added.
Amcor has long had a target of achieving 15 percent growth in earnings per share, but Macfarlane announced this annual goal had been scrapped, given the difficult trading environment and Australia's new low-inflation environment.
"I think we simply have to for a period pull them (rapid-growth ambitions) down a peg or two...," he said.  
"Clearly we have to make sure that the businesses we have already got are earning reasonable returns."
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1421
Britain's Takeover Panel, after battling to defend its policing role of London's busy mergers and acquisitions market against European interference, has ended the year in the spotlight over its handling of CE Electric's bid for Northern Electric.
The non-statutory body has spent much of 1996 campaigning against a framework European Union proposal on takeover bids which it says will lead to multi-million pound lawsuits and harm London's system of takeover regulation.
But on Monday the panel's own role was under scrutiny as the outcome of a bitter bid battle between U.S. group CE and British utility Northern hung in the balance.
"What is going on at the moment is being watched pretty closely. It is a fairly unique situation," a financial services lawyer said.
Criticism of the part the panel has played stems from a 250,000 pound ($418,600) payment made by Northern to one of its advisors, BZW, the investment banking arm of British banking giant Barclays Plc.
BZW said this was a discretionary fee and denied that it was linked to its purchase last week of Northern shares, which had already been allowed by the panel. After it was told of the payment, the panel extended the deadline for acceptances.
After the official close of the offer last Friday, Northern would have remained independent as CE had only achieved the support of 49.77 percent of Northern shareholders. But following the extension, CE said on Monday it had 50.13 percent.
A source close to the discussions said it was "very unusual and maybe unique" for the panel to be in the position of deciding the fate of a company in this way.
This view was echoed by other market participants.
"This is an unndented step the panel has taken," one investment banking source told Reuters of the decision to grant an extension to the offer period at such a late stage.
Northern's fate now lies in the panel's hands. The company has said it wants to appeal against the decision and revert to the result at the original end of the offer period. Acceptances after the initial deadline require the panel's approval.
"They (the panel) now find themselves in a very difficult situation," the investment banking source added.
Any changes in the way in which the panel operates must either come from government, by bringing in legislation to establish a statutory force to regulate takeovers, or from within the body itself, market players said.
Pressure from industry participants could lead to the panel making changes itself. "They can change the "Blue Book" (the rule book regulating takeovers) at the drop of a hat," one industry source said, adding that it had so far managed the system well.
"The panel seemed to be coping well with the upturn in bid activity. The system seemed to be working pretty well," he said. Mergers and acquisitions activity has reached peak levels in recent weeks, with a number of both agreed and disputed bids.
Apart from the potential threat from the European takeover directive, there had "been no major challenges to the panel's authority over the year", he added.
Even if the ruling Conservative Party loses a general election which must be held by next May, market participants said they did not expect pressure for legislation to put the panel on a statutory footing under a Labour government.
"The general feeling is pretty much against it (legislation) and the indications so far ist change it," said one.
China on Monday responded coolly to a request for talks from Hong Kong's populist Democratic Party, insisting the party first play by Beijing's rules.
Beijing told the party it had to abide by rules governing the creation of the Selection Committee, a 400-member body which will chose Hong Kong's post-handover leader and provisional legislature, replacing the present elected chamber.
"The Preparatory Committee secretariat...welcomes the Democratic Party's posture and willingness to communicate with us (Beijing)," said a statement from Xinhua news agency, China's de facto embassy in Hong Kong.
The Preparatory Committee is an influential panel of members handpicked by China that is overseeing the transfer of sovereignty.
"We hope the Democratic Party...can abide by the Basic Law and rules governing the setting up of the Selection Committee as laid down by the National People's Congress and the Preparatory Committee," Xinhua said. The agency was referring to Hong Kong's post-handover constitution, promulgated in 1990.
"At the same time, (this statement) clearly points out that this is the first step towards communication between the Democratic Party and us and the rest of Hong Kong people," Xinhua said.
The British colony reverts to China at midnight on June 30, 1997.
China's reply follows a letter from the party in mid-August seeking dialogue with Beijing after China's Foreign Minister Qian Qichen opened the door a crack by suggesting that dissenting views would be permitted on the Selection Committee.
Xinhua on Monday did not mention any time nor venue for talks but Beijing's latest move was seen as positive by the Democratic Party.
"We welcome it," vice-chairman Yeung Sum told reporters on Monday.
The Democratic Party's long-standing advocacy of democracy has angered Beijing which has dubbed its leaders as subversives and pointedly excluded it from the Preparatory Committee.
Czech President Vaclav Havel has been moved out of intensive care three weeks after surgery to remove a malignant tumour from his lung, but he will have to spend Christmas in hospital, doctors said on Monday.
"Mr. President has ended his stay in the intensive care unit and has been moved to a standard-care room," the head of Havel's medical team, Dr. Pavel Pafko, told a news conference.
He said that there were no further complications and the 60-year-old Havel's health was improving, but doctors felt his recuperation would be handled better in hospital.
It was not yet clear how long it would be before Havel could go home.
Havel, who had been fighting complications from the surgery which removed half of his right lung, was taken off a respirator which had been installed through his throat late last week. He has been able to speak occasionally.
His team of doctors have said that the cancer was caught at an early stage, and that there was no sign of the disease spreading to other tissue.
Pneumonia developed in the other lung after the surgery and caused a high fever, but both the pneumonia and the fever have subsided.
Havel, the chain-smoking dissident playwright who helped lead Prague's 1989 bloodless revolution which overthrew communism, entered hospital on November 25, after his office said he had been fighting a case of pneumonia.
Presidential spokesman Ladislav Spacek said Havel would write his traditional New Year's address, but it would be shorter than speeches given in the past.
He said it would be determined next week whether or not Havel himself would give the speech.
Havel's New Year speeches usually take stock of the moral state of Czech society and the development of democracy in the country.
The president, a widower after his wife Olga died of cancer last January, has received get-well wishes from heads of state around the world, and thousands of letter from Czechs.
Spacek has publicly thanked Havel's companion, the Czech actress Dagmar Veskernova, for her support in helping the president through his recovery.
Havel, whose position is more ceremonial than executive, has relinquished none of his constitutional powers.
Hong Kong experts helping Beijing establish its funds industry said Chinese planners wanted to use domestic savings to build capital markets rather than offer lucrative opportunities to foreigners.
"I do get the sense they are more keen to mobilise their own domestic savings," said Andrew Lo, chairman of the Hong Kong Investment Funds Association on Monday.
Lo had just returned from Beijing where he met Vice-Premier Zhu Rhongji who told him China would release a set of rules and regulations governing a domestic funds industry by the end of the year.
Lo said he also received firm confirmation from Zhu that Hong Kong's position as a strong financial centre will continue following the territory's handover to Chinese rule next year.
"And while China will continue to develop its capital markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen they see this very much as complementary to Hong Kong rather than as competition," Lo said.
He said he was convinced that China appreciates the importance of an active funds management industry in the development of a national economy with capital markets.
But China's dearth of investment vehicles, a product of its underdeveloped capital markets, and a currency not yet fully convertible will thwart foreigners seeking early access to China's nascent, but potentially huge, funds industry.
The immediate role of foreign investors will be to provide expertise to allow China's domestic funds industry to develop on the back of domestic savings, Lo said.
"While we would not anticipate immediate direct overseas participation in the mainland's domestic fund markets, we believe that Hong Kong is in a unique position to play a key role in fostering the development of the fund industry," he said.
A series of training sessions are being set up in Hong Kong under the auspices of the Hong Kong Investment Funds Assocation and Hong Kong's financial markets regulator, the Securities and Futures Commission, Lo said.
China is studying the feasibility of pilot schemes to allow Sino-foreign joint venture fund management companies to be set up to tap overseas fund management expertise, Lo said.
"This won't happen immediately, it's likely to take some time," Lo said. "Ultimately, they very much see an investment industry as a way to develop their own economy.
"(Zhu) confirmed his understanding that our industry is very open and international and plays a major role fostering development of markets and the economy."
Investors are already prepared for the moment China unveils the regulations governing the domestic funds industry.
"Once the rules are out, there are quite a few domestically managed funds waiting to start up," Lo said. Existing domestic financial markets and yuan-denominated bonds are likely recipients of interest from these funds, he said.
There are already about 70 closed-end funds in China with a total asset size of 5 billion yuan invested in projects, properties, stocks and bonds. ($1 = 8.3 yuan)
Last week's stern crackdown on China's stock markets has increased the speculative instinct of investors to trade on rumours of policy shifts rather than on fundamentals, analysts said Monday.
The share markets started their latest bull run in April when Beijing announced it would support the markets.
Rumours and guesses about Beijing's attitude and plans have been the primary trading factor ever since, the analysts said.
While the Beijing authorities have been trying to convince investors to look more at long-term investment based on the fundamentals of the economy and of individual companies, they again chose an old-fashioned means of reining in the markets.
"The crackdown has shown again the risk of policy changes for China's stock markets," said an executive with a major Chinese securities house.
"Policy changes have been a very hot speculative topic in the past and the use of administrative orders like this to cool down the markets will make them an even hotter topic in the long run," he added.
Beijing last Monday charged that China's two stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen were overheated and warned that Beijing would not come to investors' rescue if the markets crashed.
"The action has cooled speculative activity for now," said an analyst with a foreign brokerage in Shanghai. "But the investment pattern has not changed. It is still political issues which drive the stock market up and down."
In the shake-out last week, investors generally took refuge in blue-chip shares and dumped the so-called "rubbish shares" that have soared in recent months on the basis of little more than an impression that Beijing wanted the markets up.
Analysts said market psychology could have been better influenced if the authorities had pulled share prices back down using market means such as the issue of more shares or the listing of some state or institutional shares.
One key problem of the Chinese stock markets is the lack of suitable supervisory mechanisms and regulations, leading to widespread irregularities such as share price manipulation and the use of credit for stock trading, the analysts said.
"With a stock market law lacking and regulations incomplete, many trading activities are in a legal no-man's land, making it difficult to check irregularities," said one analyst.
The draft Securities Law, the topic of hot debate in the corridors of power in Beijing for years, is not expected to be enacted any time soon, due partly to differences over who will have the final say on securities policy, the analysts said.
Responsibility for securities policy at present overlaps between the Securities Commission under the State Council (cabinet), the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the People's Bank of China, or central bank.
Shanghai's domestic A share index rose 17.606 points or 1.91 percent on Monday to end at 939.946 after losing about 20 percent in last week's trading. The foreign currency B share index was up 0.944 points or 1.48 percent to 64.687.
In Shenzhen, the A share index fell 6.71 points or 2.04 percent to 322.25, while the B share index soared 6.11 percent or 7.68 points to 133.24.
British Airways Plc (BA) said on Tuesday that it had no plans for new alliances over the next few years, but would extend its global reach by franchising its popular brand name to smaller airlines.
British Airways has an alliance with Australian carrier Qantas Airways Ltd and formed an alliance with American Airlines in June, although this is subject to regulatory approvals and a legal suit by USAir Group, in which BA holds 24.6 percent.
"One of the great challenges of alliance development is the management challenge and I think it would be unwise to take on any more than we can absorb at any one time," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said at an industry luncheon in Sydney.
Reports that BA would look to an alliance with a Japanese airline, notably Japan Airlines, were quashed by Ayling in a speech to the National Aviation Press Club in Sydney.
"I think the Japanese airline industry is an independent industry and I think it will remain a strongly independent industry. If there are opportunities in the future for developing relationships there with other carriers then obviously we will do that," Ayling said.  
However, Ayling said the airline's four-year experiment with franchising its brand name to smaller airlines was successful and would be an area of future growth, providing safety and customer service standards were met.
"It is a way of bringing extended services to customers and of allowing operators of smaller airlines, who would have found it very difficult to survive in this world of global networks, to be more successful," Ayling said.
In June, BA signed its first franchise agreement outside of the European Union with South Africa's largest independent carrier, Comair. Under the deal Comair's eight-jet fleet will use the British Airways name and livery.
Under the existing rules it would have been impossible to acquire or invest more than 50 percent in an airline in South Africa, said Ayling. "South Africa is a part of the world which would not be open to us if we didn't have this deal," he said.
Ayling is visiting Australia to look at the operations of BA's 25 percent stake in Qantas, the national carrier.
Under the alliances with American Airlines and Qantas, BA and its partners fly to over 500 destinations in about 100 countries. Ayling said BA's global alliance could lead to opportunities in other parts of the world.  
"We may see, although this may be some way off, fleet acquisition opportunities, which would make a significant impact on procurement of aircraft," said Ayling.
"Once these agreements are put in place and they are being effectively managed, we will be able to see some things we are not able to see at the moment," he said.
Two weeks ago, BA reported an 11.1 percent rise in first quarter profits to 150 million sterling (US$231 million) on sales of 2.103 billion sterling. It forecast another record year in the year to March 1997.
Hong Kong's colonial Governor Chris Patten on Monday refused a request by future leader Tung Chee-hwa to support the interim legislature China will install in the territory when the British depart next year.
Shipping magnate Tung, emerging from his first meeting with Patten since being chosen on December 11 by a China-controlled committee to head Hong Kong from next July 1, told reporters that Patten flatly refused to provide any help to the new legislature in the run-up to the transfer of sovereignty to China.
"I brought up the work of the provisional legislature. I hope Mr Patten and the Hong Kong government can give help," Tung told reporters outside Government House, Patten's residence.
"But Mr Patten's position was very clear. I didn't successfully convince him," Tung said.
Both men emerged from a 1-1/2 hour meeting to exchange hearty handshakes and make brief speeches to the press, but mentioned little else of what transpired behind closed doors.
Describing the discussion as "long and constructive", both said they agreed to meet in the future when the need arose.
Patten, looking serious next to Tung, managed the occasional smile for photographers but turned to lead Tung into a waiting car immediately after his successor completed his short speech.
Neither of them took questions.
Monday's meeting was conducted under a cloud of strained Sino-British relations after China snubbed British objections and went ahead last Saturday with naming the provisional legislature that will replace the current elected Legislative Council (Legco) when Hong Kong returns to Chinese control 190 days from now.
The interim assembly was designed by China to reverse electoral reforms that Patten introduced unilaterally in recent years.
The move came under an international spotlight after British Foreign Minister Malcolm Rifkind on Friday challenged China to let the World Court rule on the legality of the new assembly.
Patten also lashed out at the new lawmaking body on Saturday, calling its appointment by a 400-member Selection Committee "a bizarre farce" and a "stomach-churning" process.
"What it shows about China is that, here it is taking over responsibility for a First World economy but they're trying to foist on us political institutions which a Third World country would reject," Patten had said.
"Here we are having foisted on us institutions which, frankly, you wouldn't try to run a tennis club with," he said.
China, however, has warned Britain against creating problems and to keep out of Hong Kong's affairs after the handover.
"After 1997, Hong Kong will be an internal affair of China. No foreign countries can interfere with China's internal affair," China's envoy in Hong Kong, Zhou Nan, told reporters.
"Whether Britain wants to accept my advice is up to it. But if it wants to create more new trouble, I don't think it will be out of the ordinary," he said on Monday at a public function.
The controversial new body is dominated by pro-Beijing figures, including 33 incumbent lawmakers and many politicians who lost to pro-democracy candidates in the 1995 Legco election.
The Democratic Party, the biggest single winner in last year's election with 19 of the 60 Legco seats, boycotted the creation of the provisional body, branding it undemocratic.
The Provisional Legislative Council, as it will be known, is to sit from July 1 until a new legislature can be created via elections.
China's zinc industry is fast succumbing to the rigours of reform, as mines and smelters find that surviving without government grace is difficult and the ways of the world are tough, Far East traders said on Monday.
Withdrawal of government subsidies, combined with tight credit, expensive infrastructure and utilties, and over-manned mines and smelters mean the industry is struggling to compete.
Chinese zinc exports have slowed as Chinese sellers are unwilling to lower their prices to world levels, traders said.
"The Chinese are asking high premiums -- LME (London Metal Exchange) plus US$70 to Hong Kong and Taiwan," one said.
Three month LME zinc was quoted at $1,036/$1,038 a tonne in early trade on Monday up slightly from Friday's $1,033 close.
Many Asian customers bought zinc heavily in late 1995 and still have stock to consume before they look to China, a Hong Kong trader said.
Nor is China importing much zinc, as a 10 percent import duty and a value-added tax of 17 percent made it too expensive for cash-starved smelters, traders said.
July customs figures show China's exports of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys dropped to 117,293 tonnes in the first seven months of 1996, down 7.1 percent on the same year-ago period.
The January-May export figure of 86,494 tonnes was down 25.5 percent on the corresponding period in 1995.
An executive with an Australian firm said the problems faced by the Chinese industry would take a long time to resolve.
Expansions planned some years ago had not been costed on world terms, he said, but on the local supply of raw materials that were sold at a set price.
So when mine depletion and rising demand became evident and forced China to look outside for raw materials, "they found it was very expensive, much more expensive than they expected."
As China's economy has grown at about 10 percent a year, zinc consumption is maintaining a growth rate of about eight percent, the Commodities Research Unit (CRU) said in a report.
Zinc output has risen faster than consumption and enabled China to become a net exporter of about 200,000 tonnes of slab in 1995 -- after being an importer 10 years earlier of 200,000 tonnes, CRU figures show.
U.K.-based CRU put China's 1994 mine output at 949,000 tonnes of zinc.
China's influence on the world market is expected to continue, despite reduced exports, an analyst at Billiton Metals in London said in July.
China's refined zinc exports in 1995 totalled 164,000 tonnes, compared with 222,000 tonnes in 1994, the analyst, Karen Norton said. London brokers T Hoare &amp; Co put China's average yearly exports in the previous five years at 70,000 tonnes.
The Chinese government is gradually withdrawing subsidies to mines and smelters in line with requirements for membership of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), trading sources said.
"The zinc price is down, but the Chinese are getting a double whammy with subsidies disappearing," the Australian source said.
"They can't lay people off, but they have to make money -- so what can they do?" he said.
"The real issue is that the smelters have to become competitive, and this means redundancies... So even though they are free to run the smelters as free enterprises, it would be a brave man to be the first to stick his hand up and say he is going to lay off a couple of thousand workers."
Capacity in China will remain under-utilised, while expansion elsewhere will further pressure the industry.
"The Chinese will have to compete, and their competitors will be leaner and meaner," the Australian source said.
Mercantile Bancorp Inc. said Monday it agreed to acquire Roosevelt Financial Group Inc. for about $1 billion in cash and stock, a move that would create the largest bank in Missouri.
The companies said the acquisition will create the largest locally managed and independently owned financial services organisation based in the southern Midwest. It will make Mercantile the largest banking company in Missouri, with more than 23 percent of the state's deposits, Mercantile said.
Mercantile will become the largest bank in St. Louis, where it is headquartered, and in Springfield, Mo., and will strengthen its presence in other major Missouri markets such as Kansas City.
Roosevelt, a savings and loan with $9 billion in assets that is also based in St. Louis, has 81 offices and branches in Missouri, Kansas and Illinois.
The acquisition follows Mercantile's agreement to buy Mark Twain Bancshares Inc., another St. Louis-based bank, for $855 million in stock. That deal was announced on Oct. 28.
"Our combination with Roosevelt will materially enhance our mix of strong retail, middle market lending and other speciality businesses," Mercantile Chairman Thomas Jacobsen said in a statement.
Mercantile plans to take a pretax charge of $25 million to $30 million for merger-related costs when the deal closes next year but also expects it to add to earnings in 1997 and 1998, officials said.
The deal would save about $20 million a year in branch costs annually, Jacobsen said but would not elaborate on how many branches would be closed.
"There will be some certainly, but probably fewer than you might think," Jacobsen said at a news conference.
Analysts said they were told separately that about 50 overlapping branches were expected to be closed by 1998.
Due to attrition and since the two companies will not be completely merged, layoffs were expected to be minimal, officials said.
"We're not aware of anyone at this time that won't be able to find a role with the ongoing company," said Stanley Bradshaw, chief executive at Roosevelt.
Mercantile, which said both the Roosevelt and Mark Twain acquisitions were expected to close in the second quarter of 1997, would not rule out future acquisitions.
"We have continuing interest in Illinois, Iowa and Arkansas," said John Beirise, group vice president for emerging markets at Mercantile. "Oklahoma has interest to us and would also be a logical extension."
The Mercantile that emerges after the pending takeovers are completed will have $30 billion in assets and could itself become an attractive takeover target, analysts said.
Mercantile, which will have a stock market worth of more than $4 billion, could be even more attractive once the acquisitions have been assimilated.
"I'd say Merc was already attractive anyway," said Joseph Stieven, a banking analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, which advised Roosevelt on the deal. "This makes them no less atttractive."
Said Joseph Roberto, banking analyst at Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods, "I think it makes Mercantile more attractive. It gives them the No. 1 market share across the state."
Mercantile said it will exchange up to 13 million shares of its stock at a ratio of 0.4211 Mercantile share for each Roosevelt share, and pay $22 cash for each remaining share.
Based on the $50.75 closing price Friday of Mercantile's shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the exchange ratio would value Roosevelt shares at about $21.37 each. Roosevelt's stock closed Friday at $18.125 on Nasdaq.
Roosevelt shares added $2.375 to $20.50 on Nasdaq while Mercantile stock fell $1 to $49.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mercantile also said it planned to repurchase up to 7 million of its own shares in connection with the acquisition.
An outspoken computer security expert, citing his just-completed study, says up to two-thirds of certain Web sites, including reputable institutions like banks and the media, are vulnerable to hacker attacks.
Dan Farmer -- who stirred controversy in 1995 as co-author of software dubbed SATAN that enables people with basic skills to infiltrate computer systems -- surveyed more than 2,200 Web sites.
The survey released last week covered a relatively small portion of the sprawling Web but focused on sites where security is more of a concern.
Farmer probed 660 bank sites around the globe, 312 North American online newspaper sites, 274 credit union sites, 47 U.S. federal government sites and 451 Internet sex clubs.
In a summary, Farmer said that, out of his sample of about 1,700 Web sites he selected, "over 60 percent could be broken into or destroyed." As a control, he probed a random sample of 469 sites.
Farmer said he used relatively crude, non-intrusive methods and did not actually break into the sites. He also said he would not publish the names of the sites he surveyed.
"I barely electronically breathed on these (computer) hosts," he said in his report, adding that, considering more intrusive tests, some 70 percent to 80 percent of sites may have security flaws.
Other computer security experts found Farmer's results credible and authoritative, David Kennedy, director of research, education and consulting at the National Computer Security Association, said in a telephone interview Monday.
Experts and computer industry executives said the study shed more light on a problem well known within the industry but insufficiently understood by the public at large.
The threat of hacker attacks was highlighted earlier this year when intruders broke into the Justice Department and Central Intelligence Agency Web sites and altered them, prompting the CIA to close its site temporarily.
Farmer stressed that Web sites are being used primarily for marketing and advertising purposes and that, although some bank sites may allow visitors to look up balances, the sites do not provide access to internal financial systems.
Deborah Triant, president of CheckPoint Software Technologies Ltd.'s U.S. operating unit in Redwood City, Calif., said banks routinely keep Web sites on separate computer systems.
"Our experience is the banks are so paranoid that they won't even allow the access that they should be able to allow and would be quite safe if you had a modern firewall" protecting their networks from intruders, said Triant, whose company is the market leader in firewall technology.
"So, if their Web site is vulnerable, that doesn't mean that anything else at the bank is vulnerable, or that their customers' accounts or the transactions their customers are doing are vulnerable," she said.
Nevertheless, with the advent of electronic commerce over the Internet expected to gain momentum in 1997, lax security remains a critical issue, experts said.
Farmer separated security flaws into two categories -- a red category where he said a site was "essentially wide open to any potential attacker" and a yellow category deemed less serious but with potential for disastrous consequences.
Of the 660 bank sites, 68 percent were deemed vulnerable and nearly 36 percent were in the red category.
Some 51 percent of credit unions were vulnerable, 62 percent of the federal sites, nearly 70 percent of newpapers and 66 percent of sex clubs. Sites in the red category ranged from 20 percent for credit unions to 38 percent for federal sites and 39 percent for online newspapers.
Of the random sample of 469 Web sites used as the control, a far smaller percentage -- 33 percent -- were found to be vulnerable, and 17 percent of the group was in the red category.
Farmer said part of the problem is that Web sites are trying to do too much at once, increasing their complexity and making security far more difficult to achieve.
But, even with security concerns, credit card transactions over the Net are much safer than those carried out in shopping malls, said the security association's Kennedy.
Farmer also said he plans to incorporate some newer testing tools into a new version of SATAN, which stands for Security Administrator Tool for Analysing Networks, early next year.
The programme enables people who manage corporate networks to locate weaknesses and fix them. But it has been controversial because it can also easily be used by malevolent intruders trying to cause damage.
Triant said there have been no reported security breaches at any of the more than 15,000 institutions with CheckPoint network security installed and said such precautions should provide adequate protection.
Last week's stern crackdown on China's stock markets has increased the speculative instinct of investors to trade on rumours of policy shifts rather than on fundamentals, analysts said on Monday.
The share markets started their latest bull run in April when Beijing announced it would support the markets.
Rumours and guesses about Beijing's attitude and plans have been the primary trading factor ever since, the analysts said.
While the Beijing authorities have been trying to convince investors to look more at long-term investment based on the fundamentals of the economy and of individual companies, they again chose an old-fashioned means of reining in the markets.
"The crackdown has shown again the risk of policy changes for China's stock markets," said an executive with a major Chinese securities house.
"Policy changes have been a very hot speculative topic in the past and the use of administrative orders like this to cool down the markets will make them an even hotter topic in the long run," he added.
Beijing last Monday charged that China's two stock markets in Shanghai and Shenzhen were overheated and warned that Beijing would not come to investors' rescue if the markets crashed.
"The action has cooled speculative activity for now," said an analyst with a foreign brokerage in Shanghai. "But the investment pattern has not changed. It is still political issues which drive the stock market up and down."
In the shake-out last week, investors generally took refuge in blue-chip shares and dumped the so-called "rubbish shares" which have soared in recent months on the basis of little more than an impression that Beijing wanted the markets up.
"Retail investors have turned more to blue-chip shares," said a trader. "Their prices have been stable despite the crackdown."
Analysts said market psychology could have been better influenced if the authorities had pulled share prices back down using market means such as the issue of more shares or the listing of some state or institutional shares.
One key problem of the Chinese share markets is the lack of suitable supervisory mechanisms and regulations, leading to widespread irregularities such as share price manipulation and the use of credit for stock trading, the analysts said.
"With a stock market law lacking and regulations incomplete, many trading activities are in a legal no-man's land, making it difficult to check irregularities," said one stock analyst.
The draft Securities Law, the topic of hot debate in the corridors of power in Beijing for years, is not expected to be enacted any time soon partly due to differences over who will have the final say on securities policy, the analysts said.
Responsibility for securities policy at present overlaps between the Securities Commission under the State Council (cabinet), the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the People's Bank of China, or central bank.
Shanghai's domestic A share index rose 17.606 points or 1.91 percent on Monday to end at 939.946 after losing about 20 percent in last week's trading. The foreign currency B share index was up 0.944 points or 1.48 percent to 64.687.
In Shenzhen, the A share index fell 6.71 points or 2.04 percent to 322.25, while the B share index soared 6.11 percent or 7.68 points to 133.24.
Orange Plc said on Monday its customers will be able to use their mobile phones to chat, transfer data and send faxes in Germany, France, Switzerland, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore by the end of 1997.
Announcing a roaming agreement with Swiss state-owned telecoms monopoly Swiss PTT, Orange Group technical and operations director Colin Tucker said he hoped customers would also soon be able to "roam" freely in Hong Kong and Scandinavia.
"I suppose the thing to say is, Watch this space," he told a news conference in Geneva.  
The introduction of digital equipment has helped fuel the battle to add value to the basic mobile telephone by allowing free roaming from country to country and far more reliable and secure connections.
Orange's 573,000 subscribers will be able to sign up for these enhanced services if they pass stringent credit checks and pay a 250 stg deposit to help curtail the fraud that has dogged similar previous agreements.
Orange already has a full roaming agreement in Germany and a partial one in France, centred on Paris. Talks are under way to add a number of European and Asian nations to the list.  
As with all roaming agreements, the financial details of the Swiss deal remain a trade secret. Initially, only subscribers in Geneva will be able to use Swiss PTT's Natel City network but Orange aims to boost coverage to Basel and Zurich by early 1997.
Orange says its offer of roaming services between the UK and other countries is part of its aim to provide customers with the best value for money. It notes that a significant proportion of users regularly use its established German services.
"Adding Geneva as another roaming service demonstrates our commitment to providing an international continuity of service," Tucker said.  
The system that Orange uses is much like that of market leaders Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-owned Cellnet, in that they are based on the GSM (global system for mobile communications) sister technology called DCS-1800, which operates at 1800 MHz as opposed to 900 MHz.
Most of Cellnet's and Vodafone's subscribers are on the increasingly crowded analogue networks while Orange, along with rival Cable and Wireless- and U S West -owned Mercury One 2 One, is wholly digital.  
As mobile phone companies vie to lift the market out of its yuppie ghetto and into the mass market, the challenge for newcomers like Orange -- with its monthly rental packages that include free minutes and per-second charges -- is to attract customers who still have no mobile phone.
It also has to catch those as they move from the older analogue networks to the new digital technology. Orange, which last month reported gaping first-half pretax losses of 125.2 million stg, has seen its shares fall well short of the 205 pence level of its March flotation that valued the company at about 2.5 billion stg.
But the company, partly owned by Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Wam Poa and British Aerospace, says its expects to turn in a profit or pay shareholders a dividend by 1998.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
CE Electric, the U.S. energy group, appeared poised to win its hostile bid for British regional electricity group Northern Electric Plc on Tuesday after Britain's Takeover Panel ruled against the target firm.
Late on Monday night the British company lost an appeal to the panel, which polices London's mergers and acquisitions market, to reverse an extension of the offer period for CE's 782 million pound ($1.3 billion) bid to 1300 GMT on Tuesday.
On Monday morning CE, which is controlled by CalEnergy Co Inc, said it had received acceptances totalling just over the 50 percent mark needed for victory. The offer was meant to close last Friday but was extended after an appeal by CE.
This extension was granted because CE raised concerns about the purchase of Northern Electric shares last week by its advisers British merchant bank Schroders and BZW, the investment banking arm of Barclays, and a discretionary payment of 250,000 pounds to BZW but not declared until Friday.
In its statement the panel said it had only been informed of the payment early on Friday but that while "neither element of the fee arrangement was dependent upon the success or failure of the offer", it was "material information which ought to have been made known to the executive" earlier in the week.
Northern in turn launched its own appeal against the extension of the deadline because at the time of the first deadline, CE had only gathered support totalling 49.77 percent and therefore fell short of the total needed to win.
But after a day of uncertainty on Monday, the panel said its appeal committee had "unanimously dismissed" Northern's appeal, that the latest time for acceptance of CE's offer should be extended and "any valid acceptances and withdrawals received by the latter time should be taken into account".
The panel also said the non-disclosure "may have had market consequences affecting the outcome of the bid, bearing in mind the narrow margin between success and failure in this case".
CE officials were not immediately available for comment but Northern, which has fought off CE's approach from the beginning claiming it undervalued the company, refused to throw in the towel and urged shareholders who had indicated they would accept CE's 650 pence per share offer to think again.
"It is now up to the market to decide. If shareholders do not wish this bid to succeed they should deliver withdrawals of acceptances to the Royal Bank of Scotland by 1300 on Tuesday," a spokesman for Northern Electric told Reuters after the ruling.
The spokesman said that in the event of the CE bid lapsing, Northern was willing to "attempt to reach agreement with CE Electric or any other bidder on the true value of the company".
By agreeing to effectively "collapse" a rule which says a bidder cannot come back and bid for the same company within a 12 month-period, the spokesman said Northern was opening the way for shareholders to withdraw their acceptances and reopen the debate about the value of the company.
BZW, which as a result of not declaring the discretionary fee from Northern at the appropriate time will not now be paid this part, said it had done nothing wrong.
"BZW has at all times acted in good faith and has risked its own capital in support of Northern's defence. Our fee arrangement was in no way contingent upon the purchase of Northern shares and the panel has permitted this purchase to stand," a spokesman for the firm told Reuters.
This is not the first time such uncertainty has surrounded Northern's future since it was privatised along with its 11 regional electricity company (REC) peers in 1990.
In 1994 it was the first of the cash-rich RECs to face a takeover and successfully fought off -- partly with the help of an extraordinary 560 million pound defence package -- a bid by conglomerate Trafalgar House, now owned by Norway's Kvaerner ASA.
If CE's bid goes through only two of the original RECs will remain independent, Yorkshire Electricity and Southern Electric.  
"It is now up to the market," Northern said, calling for shareholders to withdraw their shares from CE's offer by 1300 GMT on Tuesday, the deadline for the hostile bid.
"In the event that this bid lapses, the board is willing...to enter into discussions with CE Electric, or any other party, with a view to reaching agreement on an improved offer for Northern Electric," the utility said in a statement.
On Monday morning, CE said it had received acceptances totalling just over the 50 percent needed for victory.
CE's offer had been due to end on Friday, when it had only gathered support totalling 49.77 percent of the total. However, the Takeover Panel extended the deadline after CE appealed, questioning the purchase of Northern Electric shares by its advisers, Schroders and BZW, and a discretionary payment of 250,000 pounds to BZW.
($1=.5973 Pound)
Pyramid Breweries Inc. Tuesday warned of lower-than-expected sales and earnings for the fourth quarter, blaming increasing competition in the craft beer industry.
Seattle-based Pyramid said sales would be 20 percent to 25 percent below last year's levels on a wholesale basis and said it expected to just break even for the quarter, compared with analysts' projections it would earn 9 cents a share.
In last year's fourth quarter, the company posted gross sales of $7 million and net income of about $1 million, or 13 cents a share.
Pyramid's warning was the latest to roil the trendy craft beer industry, which has disappointed investors who snapped up stock sold in a spree of offerings over the past two years.
Pyramid stock, which went public at $19 as Hart Brewing Co. in December 1995, fell 12.5 cents after the announcement to $4.125 a share in Nasdaq trading. It ended an abbreviated trading session 25 cents lower at $4.
Pyramid's crosstown rival, Redhook Ale Brewery Inc., which just last week warned of weak sales, was trading at $10.625 on Nasdaq, compared with its August 1995 offering price of $17 a share and a peak of $35.
Boston Beer Co., maker of Samuel Adams beer, was trading at $10 on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with an offering price of $20 little more than a year ago and a peak of $33.
Brewers have blamed tough competition, particularly in the Northeast and on the West Coast, where the premium-priced beers have caught on most quickly with consumers.
But market share for craft beers may have peaked in many of those initial markets, while an increasing number of varieties crowd grocery store coolers.
"Not a lot of new consumers are trying craft beers any more," said analyst Diane Daggatt of Dain Bosworth, referring to more mature markets. "The people who are going to try them have tried them. They just haven't built any brand loyalty."
She said about 400 craft brewers nationwide were distributing beer, up from 300 just a year ago. And brewers are adding more specialty beers, increasing competition and confusing consumers.
While breweries have been offering promotional discounts, analyst Scott McAdams of brokerage Ragen MacKenzie said the industry may be ripe for more serious price cuts and consolidation.
"People are going to have to think about addressing the price issue and spending more on marketing," he said. "They're going to have to play the beer game more than they have been playing the beer game."
But analysts said there was still a lot of room for growth in new markets. Nationally, craft beers account for about 3 percent of sales, compared with 8 percent to 10 percent in markets such as Portland and Seattle, she said.
'Twas the day before Christmas and all through the malls, retailers were looking for a last minute push for a merry holiday sales season.
Industry analysts said sales were hovering near or a shade below expectations for the holiday shopping season so far.
After a strong start, sales came in below retailers' own expectations last week, according to a weekly survey of chain store sales by BTM/Schroders, a venture of two investment houses.
Analyst Michael Niemira at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, which compiles the index with Schroder/Wertheim, said he expected December sales to rise 4 percent to 4.5 percent, compared with earlier expectations for a 4.5 percent to 5.0 percent rise.
But activity picked up Monday and Tuesday as shoppers, pinched by five fewer shopping days between Christmas and Thanksgiving this year or just old-fashioned procrastination, rushed to find gifts at the last minute, retailers said.
"It definitely feels active," said Karen Farnham, assistant manager at an Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. in Manhattan. "Yesterday (Monday, I'd say, was probably the busiest," she said, noting that Abercrombie customers spend hundreds of dollars apiece, on average.
At the Limited Inc., last-minute shopping has been hectic, store manager Christina Vigo said in Manhattan.
"It's out of control. Yesterday was the busiest day all season. We started sales extremely early to draw business, but everyone's shopping last minute," she said, noting the average sale has been about $50.
In New York, lone men, coursing through stores with a clear purpose, accounted for a good portion of store traffic on Christmas Eve. "I'm just not finished yet. I get lazy, I guess," said Eric Gotthard.
Tom Kurpiewski said he, too, fell behind in his holiday shopping, adding that he's spending about the same as he did in 1995.
Saul Yaari, senior retailing analyst at Piper Jaffray Inc., said sales should be about 5 percent above last year's results, measuring on a store-for-store basis.
Yaari said sales at department stores have slowed in the last week after a strong holiday start while discounters have done well.
But people were still spending freely last weekend, reflecting a trend toward later shopping during the season, Yaari said.
Clothing, shoes, jewelry and certain toys, such as Nintendo's new video game system and Tyco Toys Inc.'s Tickle Me Elmo, sold very well, Yaari said.
"Consumer electronics was a very poor category," he added, noting retailers were offering free computer accessories and generous financing terms to stir up interest.
Analysts said the holiday shopping season and fourth quarter as a whole should be strong for retailers, boosted by tighter inventories and fewer unplanned promotions, as well as comparisons with a dismal season last year.
Clothing continues to lead the stronger sales.
"My read so far is I don't think it was as promotional as last year in apparel," said Harry Ikenson, retailing analyst at Rodman &amp; Renshaw Inc.. He added that electronics sales appeared to be under much more pressure than apparel.
Peter Schaeffer at Dillon Read &amp; Co. Inc., said he expected sales to rise 4 percent to 5 percent overall but only 2 percent to 3 percent at comparable stores open at least a year.
Discounters and off-price retailers such as TJX Cos. Inc. and Ross Stores Inc., as well as some of the big chains, notably J.C. Penney Co. Inc. and Sears, Roebuck and Co., should do better than average, he said.
The Federal Communications Commission proposed Tuesday to trim the $23 billion a year that long-distance telephone companies pay to local service providers in access fees.
But the commission ducked the contentious issue of whether such charges should be imposed on Internet service providers, asking for comment on the issue without offering any proposals.
In a notice of proposed rule-making, the commission said it could cut the access fees in either of two ways: it could impose a schedule of long-distance access charge reductions or wait to allow market forces to drive fees lower.
The access charges, which make up a substantial portion of local phone company revenues, were adopted after the break-up of AT&amp;T Corp. in 1984 that led to the creation of the regional "Baby Bell" local service companies.
New telecommunications rules signed into law in February are supposted to foster more competition for local and long-distance service and drive prices lower.
Long-distance companies, which say the access fees are excessive, favour deep, government-mandated cuts.
"We recommend the FCC to move as quickly as possible to squeeze the $10 billion in excess access fees out of the local exchange industry and put it back in the pockets of consumers," AT&amp;T said in a statement.
Local phone companies concede that the fees exceed their actual costs for carrying long-distance calls but would prefer a gradual reduction based on competition and market forces.
The FCC "must not allow the long-distance companies to continue to benefit at the expense of consumers," said Roy Neel, president of the U.S. Telephone Association, which represents local service providers.
While local providers have already cut access fees by $9 billion, "the long-distance oligopoly has raised rates in lockstep more than six times," he said.
Under the FCC's market-based approach, new entrants in the local market would compete with the Baby Bells to connect long-distance calls. The FCC would gradually relax and ultimately remove price caps and access fee schedules while relying on competition to drive the fees down.
The alternate approach would specify the nature and timing of changes in existing rate levels. Ultimately, the FCC said it could adopt parts of both approaches.
Local phone companies also connect Internet users to Internet service providers over local phone lines, but they receive no access charges for those calls.
Recently, several Baby Bells complained that Internet users were getting a free ride, tying up local lines with often lengthy calls.
The FCC did not take a position on whether Internet service providers should be required to pay access fees. In a less formal "notice of inquiry," the agency asked for comment on possible reform "relating to interstate information services and the Internet."
Comments are due by Jan. 27 on the long-distance access fee proposals and by Feb. 21 on the Internet issue.
Investors with "exploration fever" have latched onto Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd, hoping drill results expected this week will line their pockets with paper profits.
"There certainly are rumors that the results they've got from their Brazilian exploration are going to be positive," said Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at ScotiaMcLeod.
"It's all part of the current phenomenon -- exploration fever."
Black Swan was the most active stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday after heavy trading on Monday and last Friday. The stock was down C$0.05 to C$1.45 on volume of 2.6 million shares Tuesday.
But the flurry of speculative interest in the stock is not linked to anything concrete, company spokesman Richard Simpson said from the company's headquarters in Vancouver.
Drilling results from Black Swan's 50 percent-owned gold project in Brazil likely will released until later this week, he said, adding that the results are very preliminary.
"I know there'll be gold in the hole," said Simpson. "As to what grade it will be, whether it will be above or below the expectations of the market, I simply don't know. They're always looking for pretty jazzy stuff."
The rumor in the market is that the results will be good, and investors, especially institutional investors under pressure to show robust returns, are placing their bets, analysts said.
Mutual funds that burnished their performances on high returns from investments in such high-flying explorations stocks as Bre-X Resources Ltd and Diamond Fields Resources are quick to pile into junior mining shares with any hint of potential.
Although many previously Hot junior mining stocks cooled off quickly in June and July, investors seem to have forgotten their earlier rough ride, said Barry Cooper, a mining analyst at Wood Gundy.
"The 'once burned twice shy' saying doesn't work in junior gold stocks," he noted.
The attraction with Black Swan is a limited downside, since the stock has been trading around the C$1.50 mark, added ScotiaMcLeod's Ketchen.
"Whereas the upside potential, if they come up with something, can be rather impressive."
Black Swan shares its Cata Preta gold project in the Brazilian State of Minas Gerais with Sul America Mineracao Ltda, a Brazilian company.
Black Swan is in the midst of negotiating a takeover of its partner to gain a 100 percent interest in the Cata Preta and acquire Sul America's other Brazilian properties.
The drill results expected this week are from hole 23, the first of a 30-hole series expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Black Swan plans to drill a total of 150 holes to determine how much gold lies beneath a surface deposit already explored.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100
Pyramid Breweries Inc.  PMIDO Tuesday warned of lower-than-expected sales and earnings for the fourth quarter, blaming increasing competition in the craft beer industry.
Seattle-based Pyramid said sales would be 20 percent to 25 percent below last year's levels on a wholesale basis and said it expected to just break even for the quarter, compared with analysts' projections it would earn 9 cents a share.
In last year's fourth quarter, the company posted gross sales of $7 million and net income of about $1 million, or 13 cents a share.
Pyramid's warning was the latest to roil the trendy craft beer industry, which has disappointed investors who snapped up stock sold in a spree of offerings over the past two years.
Pyramid stock, which went public at $19 as Hart Brewing Co. in December 1995, fell 12.5 cents after the announcement to $4.125 a share in Nasdaq trading. It ended an abbreviated trading session 25 cents lower at $4.
Pyramid's crosstown rival, Redhook Ale Brewery Inc. , which just last week warned of weak sales, was trading at $10.625 on Nasdaq, compared with its August 1995 offering price of $17 a share and a peak of $35.
Boston Beer Co., maker of Samuel Adams beer, was trading at $10 on the New York Stock Exchange, compared with an offering price of $20 little more than a year ago and a peak of $33.
Brewers have blamed tough competition, particularly in the Northeast and on the West Coast, where the premium-priced beers have caught on most quickly with consumers.
But market share for craft beers may have peaked in many of those initial markets, while an increasing number of varieties crowd grocery store coolers.
"Not a lot of new consumers are trying craft beers any more," said analyst Diane Daggatt of Dain Bosworth, referring to more mature markets. "The people who are going to try them have tried them. They just haven't built any brand loyalty."
She said about 400 craft brewers nationwide were distributing beer, up from 300 just a year ago. And brewers are adding more specialty beers, increasing competition and confusing consumers.
While breweries have been offering promotional discounts, analyst Scott McAdams of brokerage Ragen MacKenzie said the industry may be ripe for more serious price cuts and consolidation.
"People are going to have to think about addressing the price issue and spending more on marketing," he said. "They're going to have to play the beer game more than they have been playing the beer game."
But analysts said there was still a lot of room for growth in new markets. Nationally, craft beers account for about 3 percent of sales, compared with 8 percent to 10 percent in markets such as Portland and Seattle, she said.
Shares in English premier league soccer club Sunderland Plc got strong support on their market debut on Tuesday, trading up to 740 pence to score a 25 percent premium to the offer price of 585p.
The traditional combination of solid defence and star striker is no longer enough to gain success in English soccer and Sunderland joins a growing band of clubs that have moved on to the stock market recently to build up financial strength.
Sunderland reported last Friday that the public offer of shares was 2.7 times oversubscribed. A total of 2.15 million shares were sold under the flotation.
On Tuesday, the price was quoted at 732-1/2p by 0954 GMT to value the club at just under 60 million stg. Trading volume of 134,500 shares was registered.
Manchester United, Britain's most profitable club, was the model for English soccer flotations and now European rivals are seeking to emulate them in the financial stakes.
United, floated in 1991, has grown into one of Britain's 250 biggest quoted companies, with a market value of some 380 million stg. The value of the Manchester United brand name means that revenue from merchandising is as high as gate receipts.
Shares in Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur have also been quoted on the London Stock Exchange for several years but a number of other ambitious clubs are now following suit as the game flourishes.
Former champions Leeds United joined the market in August when they were taken over by media company Caspian Group while Premier League struggler Southampton has recently unveiled plans for a listing.
Share analysts believe that the trend will continue as revenue from a lucrative new contract with pay television operator BSkyB and potentially greater riches from the screening of matches on a pay-per-view basis make the newly listed clubs an attractive investment.
"We are not at saturation point -- Sunderland and Southampton are relatively small clubs compared with Newcastle and Man Utd but they are still going to have access to some chunky television revenue," said Nick Knight, an analyst with stock broker Nomura who has researched soccer club finance.
BSkyB signed a 670 million stg deal in June to secure live rights to Premier League soccer matches until 2001.
Under the deal glamour clubs such as Manchester United and Newcastle United, which is also looking at a flotation, are forecast to more than double their television revenue to over 12 million stg from next season.
Sunderland, promoted from Division One as champions last season, are expecting television and media income to increase more than tenfold to 3.5 million stg this season.
"The key is being in the Premier League or at least in Division One and thus having the potential to get into the Premier League," said Knight.
He believes that up to 20 of the 44 clubs in the top two sections could join the market in the next two or three years.
The trend is European-wide, Italian champions AC Milan, owned by media mogul Silvio Berlusconi, having tentatively planned a flotation for 1997.
A stock market listing enables soccer club owners to tap into new sources of finance, to dilute their own personal exposure to the risks of an expensive business and make it easier to cash in on their stake at some point in the future.
Sunderland, are raising over 10 million stg through their flotation -- funds that will be used to put the finishing touches to a new 42,000-seater stadium, cut debt and buy new players.
Southampton, who will obtain their listing via a merger with a company that builds retirement homes, are also seeking funds to move to a new and larger home.
Improved facilities and a reduction in crowd violence have helped to lift crowds by over 30 percent since the Premier League was launched in 1992.
The financial manna from satellite television has also reversed the exodus of top talent from these shores.
The Premier League clubs are now able to attract foreign talent away from wealthy continental rivals. Players such as Eric Cantona, Ruud Gullit and Fabrizio Ravanelli are now gracing the English game and being paid handsomely for doing so.
The enthusiasm is such that many Premier League matches are sold out weeks in advance, prompting great optimism about the financial prospects from the introduction of pay-per-view.
BSkyB is planning to launch digital satellite television late next year and that will create the additional channel space to show every Premier League fixture live on a pay-per-view basis, although no date has been set for its introduction.
Analysts believe pay-per-view could eventually be worth as much as 100 million stg a year to top clubs.
"Pay-per-view could be worth a million pounds per game to Manchester United, that's 40 million pounds per season just from league matches," said Alon Bull, who trades in soccer club shares at brokers Winterflood Securities.
"If you add in cup and European matches you're up to around 65 million and that could grow to 100 million in two or three years especially if the games are sold to Europe and maybe even the United States."
He forecast that the potential cash bonanza from pay-per-view made the leading soccer clubs potential prey for big business interests.
"The next gear up is where you get multinational companies bidding for football clubs," said Bull. "I can see the likes of Manchester United, Spurs and Newcastle being taken out by bidders," he added.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
Digital Equipment Corp.'s top executives host computer industry analysts Tuesday, hoping to impart a view of a brighter future and re-ignite interest in the company's downtrodden stock on Wall Street.
Analysts expect the Maynard, Mass.-based computer maker, which just last month reported a big fourth-quarter loss and restructuring charge, to focus on its long-term direction and goal of reaching operating margins of 6-7 percent of revenues.
"They are going to talk about their vision of the future," said Gary Helmig, a SoundView Financial Group analyst.
He said Digital will likely focus on its growth areas, such as servers designed on its fast Alpha chip that run Microsoft Corp.'s Windows NT software, prospects for its computer services business, growth in semiconductors and its plans to spin off part of its Alta Vista Internet unit.
But after Digital's most recent loss, Wall Street will likely also be looking for any forecast for the first quarter, in which some analysts project a loss.
In the fourth quarter ended June 30, Digital reported a loss of $433 million, or $2.87 a share, after taking a $492 million restructuring charge for job cuts and plant closings.
Morgan Stanley analyst Steve Milunovich recently wrote in a report that the first fiscal quarter is off to a slow start.
"Management indicated that first quarter is off to a slow start, likely due to short-term disruption from sales force changes," Milunovich said. "A loss appears increasingly likely."
According to First Call, which monitors Wall Street earnings estimates, the consensus estimate for DEC's first quarter is a loss of 3 cents a share.
Many analysts expect the tone of the meeting to be positive, as Digital executives highlight the company's strengths and growth opportunities. But they are also hoping for some hints at Digital's fix-it plans for its PC business.
"The story for the Alpha server business, the networking business, the storage business and the semiconductor division is quite encouraging," John Jones of Salomon Brothers said in a report to clients. "But PCs are a big overhang currently."
In the fourth quarter, Digital's PC business lost more money than it had previously expected, estimated around $90 million, and analysts said speculation is "rampant" that Digital is looking for a manufacturing partner to help shave costs in PCs.
But Digital is not expected to make any announcements on the unit, other to confirm that it is seeking a manufacturing partner.
"They will talk about how they are going to change the sourcing of their PCs," Helmig said. "They will talk about the fact that they are doing it, but they won't be able to announce what they are doing. They haven't dotted the I's and crossed the T's."
Analysts said one of Digital's biggest opportunities for improving gross margins is in services, which had margins of 32 percent of revenues in 1996. Services is also a growth engine for International Business Machines Corp..
They will also be eager for details on Digital's plans to spin off 20 percent of its Alta Vista Internet software unit.
Alta Vista is Digital's popular and powerful search engine for finding entries on the Internet's vast World Wide Web.
Digital plans to retain 80 percent of the unit, which will also develop other kinds of Internet software, aiming to capitalize on the Alta Vista brand name.
Analysts said the motive behind spinning off part of Alta Vista is likely that its shares may do better if they trade separately from Digital, which has seen its stock drop from a high of 76-1/2 in February to 38-5/8 on Friday.
China hailed on Tuesday its war on bourgeois decadence as the top news event of 1996 along with missile tests off Taiwan, but ignored improved ties with the United States and the jailing of a dozen dissidents.
The line-up of the top 10 news events in China in 1996 as selected by senior editors of the major Communist Party-linked newspapers closely reflected the party line on news -- or propaganda.
The list issued by the Xinhua news agency differed sharply from events in China that have focused international eyes on the world's most populous country in the last 12 months.
Heading the list selected by 12 Beijing editors was the annual plenum of China's ruling Communist Party in October that adopted a 15,000-word document exhorting China's 1.2 billion people to adhere to socialist ethics and abhor bourgeois Western liberalism.
On Christmas Eve, it was unclear how far socialist values extended, but Santa Claus appeared to be exempt as he smiled and waved from dozens of Beijing and Shanghai department stores.
Politics, not only news value, may have coloured the views of many of the editors, who would have remembered that the plenum was trumpeted as one of the major achievements of Communist Party chief, state President and army boss Jiang Zemin -- anointed heir to paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
Newspaper editors elsewhere in the world would probably have chosen Beijing's campaign to intimidate Taiwan in the run-up the island's first popular elections of a Chinese president on Chinese soil as the top story of 1996.
However, for Chinese editors the decision to conduct missile tests and live-fire war games in waters near the island last March, and which sent U.S. aircraft carriers steaming into neighbouring seas, ranked only fourth in their top 10.
The news item in second place related to China's resumption of sovereignty over the British colony of Hong Kong in mid-1997, or Premier Li Peng's decision to sign off on the appointment of shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa as Hong Kong's first post-colonial chief executive.
Other editors might have focused less on the role of a single Chinese leader in Tung's elevation and more on his selection by a Beijing-sponsored committee of his peers.
Four of the top 10 Chinese news stories were linked to economic achievements and one to sports -- the Atlanta Olympic Games in which China ranked fourth overall in the medals' tally. Just two involved international affairs.
President Jiang's visit to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in the Philippines last month edged into fifth place.
Jiang's APEC meeting with U.S. President Bill Clinton set the seal on a warming of frosty Sino-U.S. ties and resulted in a decision on an exchange of the first presidential state visits in nearly eight years. But for China's news commissars, that merited only a brief aside.
"Chinese President Jiang Zemin... met with leaders of other APEC members, including U.S. President Clinton," Xinhua said.
China's renewed crackdown on dissent, such as its decision to sentence Wang Dan, a former leader of the 1989 student demonstrations for more democracy, to 11 years in jail for conspiring to subvert the government, went unmentioned.
While China's leaders peppered 1996 with assurances they can attain their Holy Grail of feeding a fifth of the global population on a tiny patch of its arable land, outside China the calls for a reality check grow louder.
Grain and oilseed production is increasing, but the economics of China's agricultural sector remain patchy and official figures can sometimes leave much to the imagination.
As a result, Western analysts and grain industry leaders are sceptical about China's ability to achieve its stated goal of grain self-sufficiency.
Many industry sources say China's communist leadership must overcome its need to keep state grain reserves secret and give the world notice of its growing food needs.
"They should get it together on real need, announce it and let other growing nations know and plan and grow for supply to China," said a consultant to the Chinese and U.S. grain industries.
"If it becomes apparent that China is importing, you'll see Argentina, Brazil gearing up to meet demand, the U.S. will expand, India might try... so there'll be competition for the China market -- which should in turn act to stabilise prices," he said on condition of anonymity.
Official projections that 1996 grain output will be yet another record, hitting 485 million tonnes after 1995's bumper 465 million tonnes, are "high even for ministry officials," says China Agribusiness, an analytical newsletter published in Hong Kong by China Concept Investment (BVI) Ltd.
"Increased domestic supply has reduced import needs, and could cause (domestic) prices to fall and 1997 production to suffer," the newsletter's third quarter 1996 issue says.
Grain supply has grown in China by 55 million tonnes in the past two years. The government predicts it will grow to 550 million tonnes a year by 2010, to feed a population which will expand from the current 1.2 billion to more than 1.4 billion.
China's net grain imports in the first nine months of 1996 were 7.4 million tonnes, with industry experts expecting total imports for the year to total eight to nine million tonnes.
This is well down on 1995's imports of around 17 million tonnes, mostly on the back of the bumper harvests, a ban on some grain exports, and a conscious official effort over the past couple of years to boost strategic grain reserves.
This has brought a much-needed confidence boost, coming after alarming predictions by American environmentalist Lester Brown that China's rising population and diminishing land and water resources will lead to enormous grain import needs.
"There's a bit more confidence on the part of China now," a grain industry executive based in Beijing with a U.S. organisation said in a recent interview.
"More than two years after Lester Brown came up with his scare-mongering, a lot of people (in China) are looking at these last two years as evidence that 'We can feed China, that's who'," he told Reuters by telephone from Beijing.
"The more realistic people here are saying imports will be a significant part of China's needs, that perhaps five to 10 percent of needs will be covered by imports annually," he said. Like other observers of China's agriculture sector, he sees 1997's grain imports falling significantly.
The Chinese government said in a recent agriculture policy white paper that grain imports could be limited to five percent of need over the coming 35 years.
Indeed, China has already frozen wheat import permits for next year because of an expected bumper crop.
Corn is in such oversupply in the northeastern growing regions that questions are being asked about how the crop, currently under harvest, be stored -- though exports, banned since December 1994, could help.
The one problem China seems unable to deal with is that of price stability.
Chinese farmers, long permitted to grow what they choose, will plant what they think will bring them the most money. With little or no planning, this leads to famine-and-feast cycles.
the coming year, 1997, will be no exception. With corn exports banned and a bumper crop on the way, corn is heading for oversupply that will push prices down.
This will in turn discourage farmers from planting corn next year, instead looking for a crop that will bring them a profit -- probably soybeans, the current short-supply crop.
"The danger -- and one that Chinese people just cannot get through their heads -- is if there is a domestic switch from corn to soy, the soy price will drop on higher supply, farmers will then stop growing soy, corn will go up in price on tighter supply and the whole boom-bust cycle begins again," a senior marketer of U.S. grains to China said.
He says China is heading for a 2.5 million-tonne soybeans shortfall in 1997 because just a couple of years ago soybeans were in oversupply, prices dropped and farmers headed for corn.
What would help?
China Agribusiness suggests the current high-supply period could be a good time to reform the grain price system, bringing the government's procurement price -- that paid for a set quota of each farmer's grain -- and the higher market price into line.
The grain marketer and others advocate a continuation of the current import policies, based on need, and an end to the secrecy that keeps the world guessing.
"Looking at it from the point of view of announcing state reserves, it would definitely help China," he said, though he pointed to the fears among China's communist leadership of panic buying and hoarding if reserves were low.
Without more openness, expert sources say, the world has no way of knowing if China will need as much as Lester Brown says -- 369 million tonnes of grain imports a year by 2030.
Or if, as the Chinese Agriculture Ministry's white paper says, import needs will be kept below 40 million tonnes by then as technology brings greater production efficiency, the population peaks and dependence on grain as a staple diminishes.
-- Hong Kong newsroom (852) 2843-6470
Volkswagen AG Czech unit Skoda Auto a.s. said on Monday its new mid-sized "Octavia" sedan will list on its home market at a base price of 335,700 crowns, at the low end of its class.
At a media presentation at the plant north of Prague, marketing chief Detlef Wittig said Skoda will make 64,000 Octavias next year, and raise production of the line to 90,000 in 1998.
The new model, built on a common VW platform designed for the 1998 Audi A3 and upgraded Golf, will be available with three petrol and two diesel engines in three lines, with the top-of-the-line SLX automatic model priced at 497,900 crowns.
The Octavia will get its international test at the Paris International Auto Show in October and should be delivered to Czech dealers in November, followed by launches on foreign markets where prices have yet to be determined.
Skoda was taken over by Volkswagen in 1992 under a governemnt privatisation plan. The company built an entirely new factory for Octavia production.
Continuing the break from the boxy Communist-era Skodas, the Octavia has more modern but conservative lines, somewhere between a Ford Mondeo and Audi's A-line.
Skoda is hoping to build on the success of its Felicia economy five-door hatchback by offering an affordable middle-range sedan and take back chunks of its home market lost to Czechs seeking a more western-looking status symbol.
"Octavia... is a logical step from Felicia into a higher market segment," said Wittig.
The cheapest Octavia includes a 1.6 litre, 55 Kw engine, ignition immobiliser, driver-side airbag, plus an adjustable driver's seat and steering wheel.
More expensive versions will be alternatively equipped with a 1.6/74 kw, 20-valve 1.8/92 kw engine, 1.9/66 kw turbodiesel or 1.9/50 kw diesel engine, and an optional passenger-side airbag.
Side-body airbags should be available in mid-1997.
Wittig told reporters that Octavia should help Skoda's total production to rise to 350,000 units next year and 400,000 at the turn of the century after 251,000 cars made this year.
"Within the (VW) concern, Skoda takes the position of the counterweight to the Asian producers," he added.
Skoda Chairman Ludvik Kalma said that he expected about 20,000 Octavias to be sold annually on the domestic market, the rest being exported to the rest of Europe and overseas.
The company lost 1.621 billion crowns last year due to heavy investments into the new factory, but Kalma said the firm should come close to breaking even this year.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003
Chen Yifei, China's top-selling modern artist, is back home in Shanghai, basking in the glow of his international success and planning a shift in subject matter -- this time to illustrate China's Generation X.
The artist, best known for his almost photographic paintings of Chinese beauties, opened his first-ever retrospective exhibition on Saturday in the new Shanghai Museum.
The show, running through to January 19 before going on tour to other cities, is Chen's first exhibition in China.
It brings together more than 40 works from a variety of public and private sources, including drawings from Chen's youth during the 1960s Cultural Revolution, through to his latest paintings depicting the strong faces of Tibetan peasants.
But his next artistic goal is to capture on canvas the feel of Chinese urban youth in the mid-1990s, increasingly influenced by trends and concepts from beyond the borders of China, particularly Western culture.
"I want to do something on the life of the new generation, the ones I see dancing at the Hard Rock Cafe or New York New York (a Shanghai disco)," Chen said in an interview.
"This is a new generation of China after the revolution. I look at them and I think about the value of life. They look very happy, but maybe thinking a different way," he said.
MODERN CHINA'S TOP-SELLING ARTIST
Chen holds the record for the highest price paid at auction for a modern Chinese painting -- 2.86 million yuan ($344,000) for a Tibetan-theme painting called Wind of the Mountain Village, now owned by a Chinese securities firm.
Now 50 years old, Chen left China in 1980, the first mainland Chinese artist to emigrate to the United States in modern times.
But in spirit and in terms of artistic inspiration, he never really left.
His most famous paintings so far are a series of life-like portraits of Chinese women dressed in traditional garb, while his paintings reflecting the atmosphere of old Shanghai are well-known.
He continues to produce landscapes showing the canals and villages of the east China region that is his ancestral home and looking at his Tibetan portraits, you can almost smell the yak butter.
China is also at the heart of his other artistic interest -- making movies. In recent years, he has directed several movies with mixed commercial success but he says he is determined to press on with this branch of the visual arts.
He is currently working on three film projects, the first of which will be a documentary on the Jews who lived in Shanghai in the years before the Communist take-over in 1949, most of them refugees from repression in Europe.
CHINA'S NEW GENERATION OF ARTISTS
Chen said he was impressed by the standard of younger Chinese artists, particularly in Beijing and Shanghai, but declined to name any favourites.
"Many of the new generation are very hopeful. China will become very important on the world art market, the standard is really very high," he said.
He maintains apartments in New York and Shanghai, but there's an important difference.
"In my heart, Shanghai is my home," he said. "This is where I grew up. In New York, it's just a room."
He said he was really happy to see Shanghai developing so fast and so strongly.
"Everyone is watching Shanghai. If it can continue this level of development, this place has a lot of hope."
China has moved a step further from its recent radical past with a decision to scrap the crime of "counter-revolution" and replace it with the offence of jeopardising state security, officials said on Wednesday.
The maximum penalty of death for a charge that is most commonly used against political dissidents accused of subversion would remain unchanged.
The proposal to rename the crime of counter-revolution as jeopardising state security was tabled in a draft amendment to the Criminal Law submitted to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, or parliament, on Tuesday.
Following approval by the standing committee, the amendment that reduces the scope of the crime to 10 offences from 15 would be sent to the annual session of parliament next March for final ratification, a parliament official said by telephone.
The proposal to change the name of the crime "was made in consideration of changed circumstances and the overall interests of the country", the Xinhua news agency quoted Wang Hanbin, vice-chairman of the Standing Committee, as telling parliament.
The crime of counter-revolution was placed on China's books after Chairman Mao Zedong swept the communists to power in 1949 and launched three decades of radical rule when to be revolutionary were marks of a correct political attitude.
The crime of counter-revolution has for decades been a catch-all to imprison anyone of whose opinions the state disapproved or whose opinions disapproved of the state.
Its victims have ranged from writers condemned as rightists in the late 1950s and those who criticised Mao during the ultra-leftist 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, to teenage students who took to the streets in 1989 to demand more democracy.
Among the most prominent dissidents serving lengthy jail terms for counter-revolutionary crimes is Wei Jingsheng, regarded as the father of China's struggling pro-democracy movement and sentenced late last year to 14 years for plotting to subvert the state.
Wei was previously sentenced to 15 years in prison for counter-revolutionary crimes after he wrote an essay during the 1979 Democracy Wall movement calling for the Fourth Modernisation -- or democracy.
Parliament's Wang praised the use of counter-revolutionary crime to safeguard state security, but said times had changed.
"Political, economic and social development in recent years has given birth to a series of new problems," Wang said, referring to the shift away from revolution to define political correctness that has been generated by the pragmatic reform policies of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
Under the draft amendments, counter-revolutionary activities as now stipulated will remain a crime -- with the exception that offences such as murder, manufacturing firearms and stealing guns will be excluded and handled as ordinary criminal acts.
Activities that aim to overthrow the dictatorship of the proletariat -- or subversion -- remain covered by the new crime of jeopardising state security, the parliament official said.
Under other amendments to the criminal law, an act not specifically covered cannot lead to a criminal conviction. Currently, people can be convicted based on a similar crime.
New offences will be added including organised crime, computer crime and manipulating stock markets.
Police acting in the line of duty will no longer bear criminal responsibility for causing death or injury.
The skyscrapers are decked with fairy lights. Red-cloaked Santas pat children on the head. Christmas carols ring out. It is Christmas in Britain's last major colony, but will it ever be like this again?
The most spectacular Christmas light displays in the world are strung from Hong Kong's skyscrapers, featuring giant illuminated Santas and reindeer covering entire facades, beaming a rainbow of colours along the famed Hong Kong harbour skyline.
Hong Kong -- shopping paradise of the world -- is awash with Christmas. Its glass and marble malls brim with exorbitant festive displays, its shops push the fanciest, most expensive brand names in the world, specially repackaged for the season.
But after Britain pulls out and Communist-ruled china takes over next July, what then?
Will Christmas turkey, Christmas pudding and Christmas cake be allowed to grace the yuletide dinner table? Even if it does, will it taste the same?
Will revellers pull Christmas crackers and drink themselves silly in merriment as many do today?
Will China allow bourgeois extravagance and Western customs? Will charities run their "Operation Santa Claus" fundraising drive for the disadvantaged and underprivileged? Will Christians be free to worship at Midnight Mass?
If China lives up to its promises, the answer to all these questions is a resounding "yes".
China has promised to allow Hong Kong to retain its freewheeling capitalist system for a further 50 years, as a quasi-autonomous part of the motherland under a "one country two systems" policy. This means freedom of religion will stay. And the hybrid cocktail of customs and traditions, too.
However, many of Hong Kong 6.3 million people worried that pro-democracy protests such as a Christmas Eve vigil and the mass dispatch of Christmas cards to mainland dissidents by human rights groups on Tuesday might not be allowed again.
It is also doubtful if Queen Elizabeth's Christmas broadcast will ever again be on Hong Kong public radio and television."
Christmas is still going to be a holiday next year in Hong Kong, as is the other main Christian festival, Easter.
Only the Queen's official birthday and World War Two victory holidays are to be removed after China takes over.
And, in this overwhelmingly ethnic Chinese territory, there are more non-Chinese than ever, despite the gradual departure of expatriate colonial civil servants and company executives.
There are 37,000 Americans, 33,000 British and 30,000 Canadians, enough to keep a few Christmas parties going. The largest foreign group, 140,000 Filipinos, mostly brought in as servants, are also a strong Christian community.
Nevertheless, there are misgivings how much will remain the same in Hong Kong. And there's a whiff of melancholy and pre-nostalgia among expatriates this festive season.
It's almost like a "last supper", their minds tilted towards midnight next June 30, 1997, the moment when the British flag will be furled away here forever.
Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten's annual "Christmas Song Choice", which will be aired on local radio, reflects the mood.
His selection starts with Louis Armstrong singing "Basin Street Blues", followed by "As Time Goes By" by Jimmy Durante.
Patten gathered his family and friends on Wednesday night, Christmas night, for a traditional dinner of roast turkey.
All assembled were aware it could be the last Christmas dinner in the regal Government House overlooking the harbour.
Patten's successor Tung Chee-hwa, who will be Hong Kong's first Chinese leader, has indicated he doesn't want to live in the mansion that symbolises Hong Kong's one and a half centuries of British colonial rule and 150-plus years of China's national shame. He says the residence is cramped and inauspicious.
So no more Christmas there, at least.
Hong Kong's final year as a British colony has seen the balance of power tilt into China's orbit, even before the change of flag arrives. Chinese influence waxed and Britain's waned.
However, just as Christmas has become a commercial success in Japan, the festival will inevitably live on -- Chinese-style.
Hong Kong Chinese vie with each other to lavish expensive presents on their children.
Even over the border in mainland China, Christmas shopping sprees are catching on. There, Santa Claus has taken to riding a rickshaw, instead of a sleigh.
Microsoft Corp stock is ending 1996 near where it began -- at slightly more than $80 a share.
But after adjusting for a stock split, the value of those shares is up a stunning 91 percent, and company chairman Bill Gates, the richest man in America, has seen his stake rise to about $23.6 billion from $12.4 billion.
While analysts are not predicting Microsoft will repeat that performance in 1997, the computer software giant carries a lot of momentum into the new year.
The company will start the year by launching the latest version of Office -- its biggest revenue producer -- and plans to flesh out its package of computer network software for the red-hot Internet market.
A new Internet browser due by midyear will change the look of the computer desktop, and upgrades to both of Microsoft's core Windows operating systems could be out by the end of the year.
Microsoft's high-end Windows NT system, which failed to catch on when it was launched in 1993, now forms the core of a business that could account for 25 percent of the company's estimated $10.6 billion in revenues in the current fiscal year ending June 30.
"The fundamentals are strong and getting stronger," said David Readerman, an analyst with brokerage Montgomery Securities.
On average, analysts expect Microsoft's earnings to rise about 20 percent to $2.06 a share in the current fiscal year from $1.71 last year and then another 20 percent in fiscal 1998 to $2.48 a share, according to the First Call service.
While that falls well short of last year's 51 percent earnings gain, it still represents a hefty increase for a $10 billion company, and Microsoft has a way of pleasantly surprising Wall Street with its earnings growth every quarter.
Analysts say Microsoft shows no signs of growing complacent despite holding a market share of 80 percent or more in its main businesses of personal computer operating systems and productivity applications.
In the past year alone the company virtually has tried to reinvent itself to focus on the rapidly growing Internet marketplace and beat back rivals led by Netscape Communications Corp.
"They've done a fabulous job. They've changed themselves from a company that was threatened by the Internet to one whose future is dependent on the Internet," said analyst Scott Winkler of the Gartner Group, a research and consulting company.
Virtually all Microsoft's upcoming products have strong Internet tie-ins: from the Office 97 upgrade, which makes word-processing and spreadsheet applications more compatible with Internet protocols, to server, or computer network, software in its BackOffice line that helps companies do business over the Internet.
Microsoft is spending some $500 million this year on media-related projects, including its relaunched Microsoft Network online service and MSNBC joint news venture with NBC.
While some of the projects could lose money for years to come, analysts say the media efforts represent a classic example of Gates' fondness for making big bets -- in this case, for a chance at a piece of online transaction fees that ultimately could be huge.
"If they are successful in pursuing their vision, this will be their core business five years from now," said Scott McAdams, analyst with brokerage Ragen MacKenzie.
"It's analogous to the early work they did with Windows itself," he said. "You start small and you keep chipping away."
Retailers looking for a post-Christmas rush to boost lukewarm holiday sales may be disappointed as snow in some areas and holiday exhaustion kept many shoppers from bargain-hunting Thursday.
"I think people did their shopping" before Christmas, said John Konarski, vice president at the International Council of Shopping Centers, a group of retail mall operators that surveys 85 large regional malls across the country.
"You're going to have some people out today (but) you're not going to see the massive crowds some people expected."
Konarski said he expected that holiday season sales would be up 4 percent to 6 percent from a year ago, which is about what he expected before the season began.
But after strong activity in the weekend following Thanksgiving, retailers' hopes for even better sales ended up being dashed by a slowdown in the week before Christmas.
"I think generally, the overall picture appears to be we had a good, solid holiday sales period, but not a spectacular one," said Tracy Mullin, president of the National Retail Federation, which represents major store chains.
She said she expects holiday sales rose about 5 percent from last year, when gains were a weak 2.5 percent to 3 percent.
Store officials and analysts said that while sales were coming in at or just below retailers' expectations, that still beats the dismal results last year.
"They slowed up very moderately, actually, from the input we're getting," said Jay Meltzer, managing director of LJR Redbook Research. "You know, we didn't go over a cliff and a year ago we did go over a cliff."
In Chicago, snow and cold weather appeared to be keeping crowds down in the Michigan Avenue shopping district the day after Christmas.
"Sales today are relatively slow compared to before Christmas," said Julie Towson, manager of the Knot Crazy tie store in Water Tower Place. "I think a lot of people spent all of their money before the holiday. Also, who wants to come out in this kind of weather?"
In central New York State, where it was also snowing, Konarski said there were lines at malls before stores opened at 7 a.m. EST (1200 GMT), but most shoppers were looking for markdowns on holiday accessories and to return merchandise.
In Cleveland, many workers were on vacation and some offices were closed, and shopper traffic at the Tower City Center mall complex was moderate.
"We've had a good, strong season," said the manager of a women's clothing store who has worked in retailing 11 years. "Business today is pretty good. Volume is moderate."
At Tower City's AnnTaylor store, sales associate Mary Rogonjich said Thursday morning traffic was slow but she expected things to pick up during lunch hour.
"Things have been steady this morning, and we have not had that many returns," she said. "We've had a very good season -- above plan." The store was offering up to 50 percent off on silk blouses, pants, jackets, shoes and other items on Thursday.
In Miami, some shops were seeing more traffic.
"The store is very busy. Really everything is marked down," said a spokeswoman at Federated Department Stores Inc.'s Macy's store in Miami's Falls mall.
But analysts said that while promotions picked up before Christmas and would accelerate this week, special discounts were fewer and less steep than last year, which should help retailer profits.
"Some retailers did get promotional in the last few days," Mullin said. "I think you'll see it really starting today."
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, said in a telephone message for investors on Monday that discount and warehouse sales were at the low end of plan for the holidays in the third week of December.
The company is in line for sales increases of 4 percent to 5 percent for November and December, the company said.
Dayton Hudson Corp. said on Tuesday sales were meeting expectations and that the company had planned its inventories well.
Sears, Roebuck and Co. said overall sales and sales at stores open at least a year were showing upper-single digit increases.
"Overall sales were strong the last three days before Christmas," Vice President of Marketing John Costello said, noting that clothing, tools, jewelry, multimedia computers and tires sold well.
Expertise ranging from crisp packet design to nuclear waste and the destruction of chemical weapons was put up for sale Monday as the UK government embarked on what may be its last privatisation venture, the sale of AEA Technology Plc.
Trade and industry secretary Ian Lang will be hoping to swell Treasury coffers by around 200 million stg through the disposal of 100 per cent of the Oxfordshire-based group, which is a spin-off from the Atomic Energy Authority, at the end of September.  
With a general election looming the sale immediately ran into a political row over the government's decision to keep its "golden share" in AEA Technology, allowing it to veto an unwelcome takeover attempt, for just three years.
The opposition Labour Party cited "security implications" over AEA Technology's role in monitoring UK nuclear submarine safety, and sources told Reuters Labour will consider extending the veto if it wins power.  
At a distinctly low-tech launch for the pathfinder prospectus, AEA Technology chief executive Peter Watson shrugged off the embarrassment of a malfunctioning slide projector to explain that the group "is all about taking technology to market and converting science to profit."
Watson could easily have a sign on his desk reading "no job is too big or too small" for AEA Technology, whose interests have spread far beyond the state-owned nuclear industry which spawned it in the 1940s.  
Work such as decommissioning nuclear plants and offering safety expertise worldwide, including at the site of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in the Ukraine, accounted for just over half its 253.3 million stg of sales in the year to March.
But Watson is keen to stress success in using the group's 3,500 employees to solve a plethora of scientific conundrums, including doubling the life of batteries for Sony Corp mobile phones, helping Subaru win the World Rally Championship and assisting the U.S. with the destruction of chemical weapons.
"And we are helping a client to research an improved crisp packet," Watson added.  
AEA Technology hopes to persuade would-be investors, expected to be institutions rather than the army of small investors which bought into the likes of British Gas Plc and British Telecom Plc, that sales growth is about to take off after three static years, which it attributes to a drop in reliance on government contracts.
With most cost-cutting behind it, Watson told Reuters he wants to lift foreign sales to one-third of the total from just over one-fifth and take advantage of a growing trend for major companies like SmithKline Beecham Plc to outsource research to help drive pretax profit up from the 15.8 million pounds seen in the year to March.
-- Jonathan Birt London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717
United Nations' plans to delay Iraq's re-entry to world oil markets lifted oil shares in Europe on Monday as a sharp rise in oil prices fed through to the stock markets, traders said.
Iraqi military activity in the Kurdish north, prompted the U.N. to put on hold a planned humanitarian Iraqi oil-for-food exchange, stopping the first sales of Iraqi oil since the Gulf War six years ago.
The increased tension in the Middle East and delays to Iraqi supplies lifted crude prices and, said analysts, was likely to raise market estimates for the third and probably fourth quarter.
October futures for benchmark Brent crude opened 70 cents a barrel higher on London's international Petroleum Exchange.
Shares in Enterprise Oil climbed 10-1/2p to 520p, while Lasmo rose three to 196-1/2. British Petroleum was up 5-1/2p at 628p and Shell Transport 6-1/2p at 939p. In Amsterdam, Royal Dutch rose 2.70 guilders to 250.70.
The Iraqi humanitarian oil sales had been expected to hit markets in the next few weeks but after the latest developments traders were questioning when and if those supplies would come back on stream.
That could mean an upward revision of as much as $1.50 on Brent crude oil prices for the next few months with the possibility of the Iraqi sales ban lasting into 1997.
"I'd rather wait and see how likely or how long delays to Iraqi sales are going to be before I get too panicky," said one leading oil analyst.
"Almost certainly there is going to be a strong fourth quarter now as well as the third. People are going to have upgrade numbers for this year but for next year it's a bit early to say."
The resultant boost to earnings forecasts are likely to provide support to share prices across the sector with most analysts having expected an oil price fall in the fourth quarter as the humanitarian sales came through.
Consensus forecasts had been around $17.70 per barrel for the fourth quarter compared with an average of just under $20 in the third, analysts said.
"We were forecasting $19.50 for the third. We'll have to raise that in the light of this news and also our fourth quarter which was $17.50 by between $1 and $1.50 per barrel," said Lehman Bros' Wendy Anderson.
"The purest plays are the exploration and production companies - Enterprise, Lasmo and Saga. You pick a pure play if you believe the delay will last into 1997," said Anderson.
Integrated majors Norsk Hydro, BP, Elf, Total and Royal Dutch/Shell also provided fairly good exposure, she said.
Total shares rose 4.2 francs at 376.7 in Paris and Elf gained 7.6 francs to 376.4. Norsk Hydro added two Norwegian crowns to 296.50.
But while the Iraqi situation will underpin stocks in the near term, it is long-term trends that will determine significant outperformance in the sector.
The real issue was at what point -- if at all -- people decided that forecasts for oil prices through 1997, 1998 and 1999 should be higher, said Nick Antill of BZW.
"At this stage I don't see anything that would make one want to do that. In investment terms, the sector is only really going to start motoring if people start bumping up the long-term trend rather than just this year's estimate," he said.
More foreign firms are finally beginning to realise the dream of the China market that has long tantalised traders -- selling goods to the world's largest slice of mankind and making money from it.
Many foreign companies remain stuck in China ventures that are loss-making and frustrating, but the number turning a profit or at least gaining solid market share is increasing, along with the market, according to analysts and businessmen.
In the 16 or so years since China opened its doors to the global economy, the country has become the second-biggest recipient of foreign investment funds in the world, after the United States.
Foreign brands such as Coca-Cola, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Lux soap have become household names throughout China, and the shelves of convenience stores from Harbin to Hainan are stuffed with foreign brand soaps, chocolates and cigarettes.
PERSISTENCE PAYS OFF
"Overall more and more companies are coming, which is not necessarily to say they're making money yet," said a Western diplomat in Shanghai. "But there's now a general view that there's not only great potential but also an increasingly good track record for companies that have persisted."
"You can now see that if you stick it out, you can make money and you can get good market share. Coca-Cola is now a household name thoughout China," he added.
Coca-Cola came back to China after a 30-year absence in 1979, and the company booked its first accounting profit for its China operations 11 years later, said John Farrell, head of China operations.
"You cannot afford not to be in China. It's just the reality of opening a country of this size and the size of the economy and population," Farrell said.
"But it takes a lot of patience and you need to be very diligent to build your business. It's not easy by any means."
Coca-Cola has 18 bottling plants across China, and with sales volume doubling every three years this is just the beginning.
Coca-Cola declines to say just how profitable the China market is. Like most other companies, it does not issue figures on its China operations.
MARCHING WITH THE CONSTRAINTS
"You have to march along with the constraints that you're given," Farrell said.
"The main thing for us was living up to the commitments we'd made on building plants, transferring technology and training people. The more we did that, the longer we did that, the more people would believe and trust us and allow us to expand a little bit more."
Among the sectors that have done well so far are communications equipment firms, such as Motorola and Ericsson, and low-priced consumer product makers.
"Generally speaking, the easiest place to make a profit tends to be in the consumer industry, usually fairly small-scale operations," said Anne Stevenson-Yang, director of China operations for the U.S.-China Business Council.
"That is, assuming the deal is done right," she added.
There are big variations on market access and ease of business for foreign companies depending on the sector they are trying to storm.
The restraints are few in areas such as consumer products, while in sectors such as banking, distribution and insurance, foreign firms are kept on a very tight leash.
BIGGER INVESTMENT EQUALS BIGGER RISK
Overall, companies involved in high-cost, long-term projects seem to bear a proportionately bigger risk, analysts said.
"Big heavy industry projects are a problem," said one foreign broker in Shanghai.
"Generally foreign businesses in trouble have a bad business plan, or they're doing things which China is not famous for -- like trying to build aeroplanes or something."
The automobile industry has seen its share of troubles for foreign firms who have ventured in.
Chrysler Corp had a famously difficult relationship when it set up a joint venture in Beijing in the early 1980s, and France's PSA Peugeot Citroen is looking at closing one of its two China plants.
"We're having some difficulties -- all Western carmarkers are having difficulties in China," said a Peugeot official in early December.
General Motors, which has been close to completing negotiations for a $1 billion automobile factory in Shanghai for months, is well behind schedule on its plans and could have trouble ever making a profit in China, according to some analysts.
"It's going to be very difficult for them to make money. But they're coming in because they feel they have no choice," said the Western diplomat. "It they don't do the deal, Ford will."
Hong Kong and Taiwan businessman have generally done much better in their investments than non-Chinese, said a representative for a Hong Kong trading group in Shanghai.
"But more people make money than they would admit," he added. "People find ways to shift profits to Hong Kong or from one company to another to make things look like break-even."
CHOOSING MARKET SHARE OVER PROFITS
Making money is anyway not a top priority for many companies in the China market, at least in the initial stages. Many are happy to break even or lose money for many years in order to gain market share.
The Canadian insurance company Manulife, for instance, which set up a joint venture last month, said it doesn't expect to see a profit for at least seven years.
"Many companies are ploughing everything back into expansion and advertising," said a Western diplomat. "In many cases, headquarters doesn't care if you make money, it's whether you're getting greater market share."
"If you're a global company you have to be here, and the potential risk of not being here is greater than losing your shirt for a while when you come in," said Richard Graham, representative of ING Barings in Shanghai.
Success and failure for a foreign company in China is also closely related to who they work with.
"The reasons for people failing are usually related to joint venture problems. Choosing the wrong partner is the source of a lot of difficulties," the diplomat said.
But analysts said profits and market share aside, major advances have been made by foreign firms in recent years in the areas of experience and staffing.
"There are many companies now which have a lot of experience of operations in China, their staff are more used to operating in Chinese ways, and local staff are more used to operating under international practice," said Barings' Graham.
"This should allow them to go forward more positively."
The Federal Communications Commission has tentatively decided not impose fees on Internet service providers for use of local telephone lines, an official said Thursday.
On Tuesday, the commission issued a notice of proposed rulemaking setting out two possible plans for reducing the $23 billion a year that long-distance telephone companies pay to local service providers in access fees.
"The commission raised the specific question of whether ISPs (Internet service providers) should pay access charges as we currently understand them," Kevin Werbach, counsel for new technology at the commission said. The FCC "tentatively concluded that the answer is no."
Local phone companies had pressed to have the access fee applied to Internet service companies. The phone companies argued that consumers using the Internet were getting a free ride and tying up local lines with lengthy calls.
Internet companies countered that such fees would smother the growth of the booming online industry.
"We think they did exactly the right thing," said Jill Lesser, deputy director of law and public policy at America Online, the largest online service in the world. "It means the FCC is thinking in the right way about this. They're thinking for the growth of the Internet."
The commission did issue a "notice of inquiry" asking for comments on the issues involved, Werbach said.
The arguments of both sides raise "legitimate issues, so the commission initiated the notice of inquiry to develop a record on that," he said.
A notice of inquiry seeks comment but does not give the commission authority to then adopt a rule. The commission would have to first issue a notice of proposed rulemaking before applying access fees to Internet service providers, Werbach said.
The Internet notice is "more foward looking" than the proposed rules for long distance access fees, Werbach said. "Once we have an idea what replaces the access charge system then we can take a look at that," he said.
Regulators this week gave final approval to a technology standard for a new generation of high-definition digital television, setting off a race between computer makers and TV manufacturers to woo viewers.
The Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday approved the compromise standard hammered out last month between TV manufacturers, broadcasters and the computer industry.
Digital TV offers crystal-clear pictures and CD-quality sound. It is also expected to promote a "computer friendly" TV system that allows viewers to watch programmes while surfing the Internet over the same "smart box."
The new standard "hastens convergence, transporting us into a competitive world of computer-friendly television sets and broadcast-friendly computers," commissioner Susan Ness said. "Our decision also provides a springboard for global leadership in high-definition digital equipment and programming."
The standard, among other things, covers how voice and video material will be attached to digital signals, how the signals will be "compressed" for transmission, and how they will be "reopened" at the TV receiver.
But not every detail is spelled out. Under the industry compromise, the standard does not specify the video format by which images will be put onto the screen, or "scanned."
Broadcasters and TV manufacturers had wanted to require a format known as "interlace" scanning. Computer companies argued that would stifle the convergence of TV and computer technologies. They wanted to mandate "progressive" scanning, which is better suited to computers, or no format at all.
Progressive scanning, used by most computers, updates every line of the TV picture at each pass. Interlaced scanning, used in exisiting television sets, updates every other line.
Because no scanning format was specified, the computer industry will be free to manufacture computers that use just progressive scanning. And TV manufacturers are ready to make sets that offer both interlace and progressive technology.
That sets up a competition between the two industries over how consumers will want to watch TV -- over a TV set or over a computer.
"Ultimately, the personal computer will be the preferred communications device in the household," said Paul Misener, manager of telecommunications and computer technology policy at Intel Corp., a major computer chip maker.
Not so fast, argue TV manufacturers.
"The computer people need to evaluate how the average consumer wants to get delivery to the home," said Lisa Fasold, a spokeswoman for the Consumer Electronics Manufacturers Association, an industry group.
"TV sets typically last a lot longer than computers. And they're much more simple to operate."
In any event, industry officials agree that digital TV is likely to hasten the long-promised convergence of TV and computer technologies.
For example, sports fans will be able to watch a baseball game and split the screen of their machine to receive up-to-the-minute scores of other games over the Internet, according to industry officials.
TV manufacuters expect to begin bringing digital receivers to market in 1998. The new sets are expected to cost from $1,500 to $3,000. Prices are forecast to drop as broadcasters offer more digitally transmitted programmes, presumably boosting demand for digital TV.
The Commerce Department will issue final rules on Dec. 30 to implement its new policy on export of computer encoding products, but the proposal is unlikely to mollify the software industry and privacy advocates who objected to a draft version.
Some changes were made in the final rules, available Friday at a government printing office, from the earlier draft. But the bulk of the proposal remains the same, including portions strongly criticized by the software industry that applied to real-time communications.
Commerce undersecretary William Reinsch had said two weeks ago that the draft rules would be modestly revised, but warned that some objections could not be addressed.
Under the previous rules dating from the Cold war, the administration severely limited the export of products containing encryption, programs that use mathematical formulas to scramble information and render it unreadable without a password or software "key."
In the past, products could be exported using "keys" as long as 40 digital bits, a string of forty ones and zeros. But as the speed of computers has grown, 40-bit keys have become easy to crack and longer keys have come into general use.
At the same time, with the growth of the Internet and online commerce, demand for encryption-capable products is growing worldwide. Coded messages can keep a business' e-mail confidential or protect a consumer's credit card number sent on the Internet.
The Commerce Department rules were intended as a compromise, allowing U.S. companies to compete in the encryption market while protecting the interests of law enforcement officials.
The policy relies on so-called key recovery features which allow government officials to decode encrypted messages when acting under proper legal authority.
Under the policy to be issued Monday, products containing key recovery features will be eligible for export after a one-time review.
Software firms had hoped the key recovery exception would only apply to stored data, like a document on a hard drive. But the final rules, like the draft rules, also require key recovery for real-time data transamission such as coded phone calls.
Non-key recovery software with keys of up to 56 bits will be exportable under six-month, renewable licenses until the end of 1998, but only if the manufacturer commits to producing software with key recovery by then.
Some companies had complained that the government was asking for too much information about their future plans, but the final rules still require submission of detailed plans and committments.
All other encryption products, such as state-of-the art 128-bit software without key recovery features, would continue to be treated as munitions. Such products include ordinary e-mail programs and even the recently introduced set-top box for surfing the Internet with a television.
The rules deleted a draft provision allowing keys to be stored with a recovery agent located outside of the United States.
The final rules also made clear that an applicant's public support of the administration's policy would not be a factor in export license decisions. Rather, helping build the necessary infrastructure would be a factor, the final rules said.
A criteria listed as "public support for a key management infrastructure," was changed to "or other support for the key management infrastructure."
China has jailed a Tibetan music expert touring the Himalayan region on a U.S. scholarship for 18 years for spying in one of the harshest sentences ever meted out in the restive region, local radio reported on Friday.
Ngawang Choephel, 30, who was travelling in Tibet as a Fulbright scholar to produce an amateur documentary about traditional music and dance, was detained by the authorities in Tibet in August, 1995, said the broadcast monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp.
The young scholar confessed to having been sent to Tibet by "the Dalai (Lama) clique" on behalf of an unnamed foreign country to conduct espionage activities, the report said in a thinly veiled reference to the United States.
U.S. officials had no immediate comment on the case.
He was visiting "under the pretext of collecting information on Tibetan folk songs and dances", the radio broadcast said.
"In accordance with the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China... The Intermediate People's Court of Xigaze Prefecture sentenced Ngawang Choephel to an 18-year prison term for committing espionage crime," the radio said.
He was deprived of his political rights for four years.
China has been swift to crack down on any sign of anti-Chinese unrest in the Himalayan region.
Beijing has been especially nervous about anyone with possible links to the exiled Dalai Lama, Tibet's god-king, since he announced in 1995 his own candidate as the reincarnation of the region's second holiest monk, the Panchen Lama. China later presided over the discovery of an alternative reincarnation.
"The striking thing is the length of the sentence," Robbie Barnett of the London-based group Tibet Information Network said in a telephone interview. "It is quite extraordinary."
Ngawang Choephol's sentence was the most severe handed down in a political case since Tibetan monk Ngawang Phulchung was jailed for 19 years in 1989 for subversion after publishing political leaflets, including a manifesto for a democratic Tibet.
Another monk, Jampel Changchup, was also sentenced in 1989 to 19 years in prison for subversion and espionage.
"It does seem to be a provocative decision in political terms because it names three times 'a certain foreign government'," Barnett said.
"It appears to mean the end of any sense that China is susceptible to the international community on human rights issues," he said. "They now feel confident to use counter-espionage laws against political offenders."
Ngawang Choephol left Tibet as a child shortly after the Chinese takeover in 1950 and grew up in India before going to Middlebury College in Vermont in 1993 as a Fulbright scholar in ethnomusicology.
The young man, who once worked as a dance teacher in India, travelled to Tibet in 1995 to make his amateur documentary.
To gain permission to travel to his birthplace, Ngawang Choephol renounced his Indian refugee status and entered Tibet as a Chinese citizen, Barnett said.
He was last reported to have been seen in Nyari prison in Xigaze, Tibet's second largest city in the west of the Himalayan region, in September 1995, shortly after his arrest in the local market.
"It is very unlikely that he was a spy," said Barnett. "He was genuinely making the film he said he was making. No one wold have entrusted him to do this because he was not competent to carry out any hidden activities.
"He is a rather distracted, emotional artist," he said.
Institutional investors in British utility Northern Electric said on Friday they were likely to sell up if told to do so by the company, despite their objections to the price offered in U.S. group CE Electric's winning bid.
Northern Electric, which operates in northeast England, was poised to announce whether it would officially concede defeat and recommend the 782 million pound ($1.3 billion), or 650p- per-share, hostile offer by the U.S.-controlled energy group.
"There will be a statement from us in the next 72 hours or so," a company spokesman told Reuters.
Institutions said they were awaiting Northern's response after CE Electric on Tuesday declared its bid unconditional having secured a slim 50.3 percent majority of acceptances.
"We thought that the price offered was too low and I think now it is a question of getting Northern's judgement on it and making up our minds," said a fund manager at one institution who declined to be named. "But we would have to give a lot of thought to being a minority shareholder," he added.
Another institutional investor also said it was unlikely to keep its stake. "I doubt if we would be standing aside. (Selling) would be our normal procedure," said a spokesman.
In normal circumstances, a firm recommends even a hostile offer after the bid has been declared unconditional.
But there has been little about CE Electric's fight for Northern that has been normal -- and at least one institution admitted to harbouring a slim hope Northern could still pull something out of the hat.
Northern Electric, which last year became the only one of the 12 regional electricity companies (RECs) to fight off a hostile bid, lost the battle after an unprecendented extension to the bid tipped the votes in CE Electric's favour.
The Prudential Corp, one of Northern's biggest shareholders, then attempted to defeat the takeover in the eleventh hour by trying to persuade investors who had accepted the offer to sell their Northern shares to the insurer instead for the same price.
CE Electric is keen to win at least 90 percent of the shares -- the amount needed under British takeover rules before it can carry out a compulsory purchase of the remaining ones -- and its message to any institutions thinking about hanging on to minority stakes was terse.
"If these reports about some shareholders deciding that they will not accept the offer are true, it raises a number of questions about their investment policy. But obviously it is up to them to decide what they want to do," a CalEnergy spokesman.
While Northern's core business is heavily regulated, most institutions invest in utilities for their robust dividends -- which is a matter for the board, not the industry regulator.
Some institutions said they remained baffled that Northern's bid for independence had failed because of a technicality.
The Takeover Panel last Friday extended the bid, after CE Electric narrowly failed to win control, because Northern's broker BZW had belatedly reported it had charged Northern an extra 250,000 pounds in a performance-related fee.
One institution said on Friday it remained convined that Northern was worth 700-720 pence a share, saying that if CE's bid had failed, the U.S. group may have come back to discuss a higher price -- or a fresh bidder could have been attracted.
Failing that, the value of the company would have been reflected in its share price in the long term, it said.
Only two of 12 regional electricity companies now remain independent -- Southern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity. Six have been bid for by American companies.
($1=.5943 Pound)
Corporate Australia is likely to continue its thirst for takeovers in 1997 with banks, media and resources tipped to feature prominently.
Brokers estimate there were about A$8.5 billion ($6.8 billion) worth of takeovers and share buy-backs in 1996, up from A$5.9 billion in 1995 and A$2.0 billion in 1994. Takeovers and share buy-backs are both seen as ways to boost growth in earnings per share.
The biggest deal this year was the A$2.0 billion agreed takeover of freight transporter TNT Ltd by Dutch postal and telecoms group Koninklijke PTT Nederland NV.
"Almost across the board there is rationalisation and international interest in our industries," said Chris Mackay, executive director at broker SBC Warburg.
SLOWING AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY SPURS RATIONALISATION
Analysts said Australia's low inflation and low economic growth prospects also made conditions ripe for takeovers.
"With low levels of inflation, companies have difficulty pushing through cost increases, so they have got to look for efficencies in order to increase profitability and to do that, some companies acquire others," said Merv Peacock, the Australian Mutual Provident Society's head of marketable securities.
Profits have been falling across the board for the past 18 months, with industrials hit by the slowing economy and resource companies severely affected by lower commodity prices.
GOLD TO SHINE IN RESOURCE TAKEOVER ACTIVITY
"Gold is an area where we could see a lot of takeover activity," said Craig Drummond from leading broker J.B. Were &amp; Son. "The gold valuations have fallen a long way this year," he told Reuters.
The Australian gold index is currently 22 percent down from its 1996 high in February, while the broader market has risen six percent over the same period.
"The scope still exists for both domestic takeovers and in particular foreign takeovers of Australian gold assets," Drummond said.
The Australian gold sector was one of the most active sectors during 1996. The largest takeover in this group was the A$3.0 billion merger among the Normandy Mining Ltd group of companies.
Foreign gold miners were also keen to snare Australian gold producers in 1996, a trend which analysts say will continue next year.
Last month, Canadian gold mining giant Placer Dome Inc unveiled a US$600 million plan to buy the rest of its local offshoot Placer Pacific Ltd and Papua New Guinea Highlands Gold Ltd.
Australian gold analysts said other North American gold miners keen on expanding their presence in the region are Battle Mountain Inc and Coeur d'Alene Corp.
However the rest of the resource sector is unlikely to see much takeover activity in 1997.
"There is not a lot left in the oil sector and in the base metals sector there are few options so it's primarily the gold sector where there is going to be more activity," Drummond said.
Australian oil assets were vigorously snapped up in 1996 by overseas predators. The biggest deal was the Mobil Corp's A$1.78 billion purchase of Ampolex Ltd.
INDUSTRY INQUIRIES MAY SPARK MORE TAKEOVERS
The Australian government is holding inquiries into the media and banking industries, with analysts tipping banking as the more probable of the two sectors to see merger activity.
The Wallis inquiry into Australia's financial system, which is looking at the possibility of a relaxation of rules that stop big bank mergers and takeovers by foreign banks, is due to hand down its recommendations in March 1997.
There have already been several regional bank takeovers in 1996, but the outcome of the largest deal -- the A$2.65 billion friendly bid by St George Bank Ltd for fellow Sydney-based Advance Bank Australia Ltd -- will be known early next year.
The Liberal-National government, elected in March, has ordered a review of media ownership laws which currently limits cross ownership of newspapers and television.
But the review is not examining foreign ownership rules, which could limit any expansion plans Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd has pencilled in for Australia. Upmarket newspaper publisher John Fairfax Holdings Ltd remains the most likely target in this sector -- with Kerry Packer already holding a sizeable stake.
"In relation to media and banks, subject to the conclusion of the respective inquiries, there could well be more activity in those two sectors," SBC Warburg's Mackay said.
But some analysts said any liberalisation of the banking sector could find opposition from the anti-monopolies watchdog -- the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC).
($1 = 0.7960)
Hong Kong's leader-in-waiting Tung Chee-hwa on Friday invited the territory's top official, Anson Chan, to meet him amid intense speculation over whether she might stay in her post after China takes over next year.
The two would meet over breakfast at Tung's villa on Hong Kong Island on Saturday morning, a government spokesman said. He did not say what they planned to discuss.
Chan, 56, is chief secretary and second-in-command to Governor Chris Patten, whom the 59-year-old Tung will succeed after the change of flag at midnight next June 30, bringing down the curtain on over 150 years of British colonial rule.
An opinion poll this month ranked Chan as the most popular political figure in Hong Kong with 73 percent of people saying they support her, well ahead of Tung himself, who scored a 65 percent approval rating.
Tung was selected by a China-controlled committee on December 11 to be Hong Kong's post colonial chief executive, the first Chinese leader in the territory's history.
With only 186 days left until the handover, Tung is moving quickly to assemble a cabinet and to hammer out his relationship with a provisional legislature that China created last week.
He has called an informal lunch meeting of the 60 legislature members next Monday, likely to discuss the scope of the body's lawmaking activities and possible candidates for speaker of the assembly, although no agenda has yet been set.
Chan was once touted as a possible candidate for the job that has fallen to Tung, but she bowed out from the race and declined to become an official candidate despite her popularity.
Many officials -- in Hong Kong, in Britain and in China -- respect Chan's administrative talent and consider the Tung-Chan ticket as a "dream team" scenario likely to promote Hong Kong's smooth transition to Chinese rule.
She has said she would like to see as many as possible of her policy secretaries -- equivalent to government ministers -- stay on, for the sake of stability in the civil service.
However, in the first sign of cracks in the upper echelon of the administration, one top official, Michael Leung, head of the Independent Commission Against Corruption, announced this week he would quit before the mid-1997 handover.
Local media speculated on Friday that Leung's move could be the first in an exodus of top officials unwilling to serve an administration under Beijing's thumb after Britain pulls out.
China has promised that Hong Kong can be a quasi-autonomous territory and keep its capitalist system for another 50 years, but many in the territory fear repressive communist-style rule.
On Friday, Hong Kong's Bar Association, which groups the territory's lawayers, said it had sent a 38-page report to China urging Beijing's communist rulers not to scrap Hong Kong's Bill of Rights.
China has signalled it will roll back the human rights law and a string of other laws and trappings of democracy after it resumes sovereignty.
A top Chinese defence official has stepped down in a reshuffle linked to China's string of satellite failures, political sources said on Friday.
General Ding Henggao has been replaced as Minister of the Commission of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defence (COSTIND), a key body charged with overseeing high technology projects related to defence.
Ding, 65, was succeeded at the helm of the ministerial level COSTIND by 61-year-old Cao Gangchuan, a lieutenant-general and deputy chief of general staff of the People's Liberation Army.
"I can confirm that (Ding) stepped down and the change was made in late November or early December," said an official of the Defence Ministry.
"I do not know the reason," he said.
Sources with close ties to the defence industry told Reuters that Ding had been at the centre of controversy, largely over satellite issues.
"This is partly a matter of age and partly a dispute over satellites," said a source.
China successfully launched a satellite in October but that followed a series of failures, the most recent of them last August when a Long March 3 rocket put a U.S.-built satellite into the wrong orbit.
Last February, a Long March 3B rocket exploded shortly after liftoff, killing at least six people and injuring 57 on the ground.
In January 1995, a Long March 2E blew up, killing a family of six on the ground and destroying the Apstar 2 satellite it was carrying.
"There have been bitter disputes over where the responsibility for the failures lies," said a source.
COSTIND is responsible for launches while China Aerospace Corporation is in charge of rockets and satellites.
The Soviet-trained Ding, who has a background in missiles and precision engineering, coordinated research and production of strategic missiles as well as satellite launches, according to an official biography.
Ding's departure probably coincided with a reshuffle that replaced the nation's air force and naval commanders, both of whom were also 65 years old.
Ding is the son-in-law of the late Marshal Nie Rongzhen, one of the veteran military leaders of China's communist revolution.
Nie Li, Ding's wife and daughter of Marshal Nie, stepped down from a senior post at COSTIND two years ago.
Corporate Australia is likely to continue its thirst for takeovers in 1997 with banks, media and resources tipped to feature prominently.
Brokers estimate there were about A$8.5 billion ($6.8 billion) worth of takeovers and share buy-backs in 1996, up from A$5.9 billion in 1995 and A$2.0 billion in 1994. Takeovers and share buy-backs are both seen as ways to boost growth in earnings per share.
The biggest deal this year was the A$2.0 billion agreed takeover of freight transporter TNT Ltd by Dutch postal and telecoms group Koninklijke PTT Nederland NV.
"Almost across the board there is rationalisation and international interest in our industries," said Chris Mackay, executive director at broker SBC Warburg.
SLOWING AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY SPURS RATIONALISATION
Analysts said Australia's low inflation and low economic growth prospects also made conditions ripe for takeovers.
"With low levels of inflation, companies have difficulty pushing through cost increases, so they have got to look for efficencies in order to increase profitability and to do that, some companies acquire others," said Merv Peacock, the Australian Mutual Provident Society's head of marketable securities.
Profits have been falling across the board for the past 18 months, with industrials hit by the slowing economy and resource companies severely affected by lower commodity prices.
GOLD TO SHINE IN RESOURCE TAKEOVER ACTIVITY
"Gold is an area where we could see a lot of takeover activity," said Craig Drummond from leading broker J.B. Were &amp; Son. "The gold valuations have fallen a long way this year," he told Reuters.
The Australian gold index is currently 22 percent down from its 1996 high in February, while the broader market has risen six percent over the same period.
"The scope still exists for both domestic takeovers and in particular foreign takeovers of Australian gold assets," Drummond said.
The Australian gold sector was one of the most active sectors during 1996. The largest takeover in this group was the A$3.0 billion merger among the Normandy Mining Ltd group of companies.
Foreign gold miners were also keen to snare Australian gold producers in 1996, a trend which analysts say will continue next year.
Last month, Canadian gold mining giant Placer Dome Inc unveiled a US$600 million plan to buy the rest of its local offshoot Placer Pacific Ltd and Papua New Guinea Highlands Gold Ltd.
Australian gold analysts said other North American gold miners keen on expanding their presence in the region are Battle Mountain Inc and Coeur d'Alene Corp.
INDUSTRY INQUIRIES MAY SPARK MORE TAKEOVERS
The Australian government is holding inquiries into the media and banking industries, with analysts tipping banking as the more probable of the two sectors to see merger activity.
The Wallis inquiry into Australia's financial system, which is looking at the possibility of a relaxation of rules that stop big bank mergers and takeovers by foreign banks, is due to hand down its recommendations in March 1997.
There have already been several regional bank takeovers in 1996, but the outcome of the largest deal -- the A$2.65 billion friendly bid by St George Bank Ltd for fellow Sydney-based Advance Bank Australia Ltd -- will be known early next year.
The Liberal-National government, elected in March, has ordered a review of media ownership laws which currently limits cross ownership of newspapers and television.
But the review is not examining foreign ownership rules, which could limit any expansion plans Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd has pencilled in for Australia. Upmarket newspaper publisher John Fairfax Holdings Ltd remains the most likely target in this sector -- with Kerry Packer already holding a sizeable stake.
"In relation to media and banks, subject to the conclusion of the respective inquiries, there could well be more activity in those two sectors," SBC Warburg's Mackay said. ($1 = 0.7960)
Draft amendments to China's criminal law have sparked fierce debate among usually tame lawmakers, with controversy surrounding the scope of the death penalty and whether corrupt state managers should be executed.
The Workers Daily newspaper on Saturday published a rare insight into controversies troubling a string of amendments to the Criminal Law, currently under debate by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, or parliament, that meets behind closed doors.
"Looking at the last few days of debate by the standing committee of the draft criminal law amendments, argument on specific clauses has been very fierce," the newspaper said in an unusual expose of controversy in the usually rubber-stamp body.
The criminal law amendments along with a new anti-corruption law were two main items on the agenda of a week-long meeting of the standing committee that began on Tuesday to debate bills to be passed by the full annual session of parliament next March.
"Are there too many death penalties?" was one of the top controversies this week, the Workers Daily said.
"Some people think that, with the international tide moving toward eliminating or reducing the use of the death penalty, even though the current amendments do not increase the number of death penalty clauses, however the current criminal law with more than 30 capital crimes should be reduced," it said.
China executes several thousand people each year and international human rights group Amnesty International recorded 3,612 death sentences and 2,535 executions in China in 1995 compared with 2,496 death sentences and 1,791 executions in 1994. Hundreds, if not thousands more, go unreported.
From January 1, when a new criminal procedures law takes effect, China will add lethal injection as well as execution by firing squad as a new means of capital punishment.
The Workers Daily said another body of legislative opinion held that the death penalty should neither be reduced or eliminated because it served as a deterrent and answered a popular demand for harsher punishments to prevent crime.
Debate also swirled around amendments to combat corruption, including more than 60 clauses that would specifically define graft and dereliction of duty, while increasing to 32 from seven the types of officials subject to the law, the newspaper said.
Heated argument surrounded the designation of managers of state firms as government employees, who are subject to a maximum penalty of death for corruption, it said.
One body of opinion held that government factory managers be defined as public servants since 75 percent of all official cases of corruption involved state enterprise managers.
Others argued this was unfair since managers of non-state firms faced a maximum of only 15 years in jail for graft.
"On this issue, the Supreme People's Procuratorate and the Supreme People's Court hold very different opinions," the newspaper said.
All should be equal before the law, the newspaper quoted the criminal law as saying regarding the need to tackle corruption, which is regarded as the chief threat to Communist rule.
It made no mention of a former Beijing city party boss who was sacked in early 1995 after a vice-mayor committed suicide in a $37 million corruption scandal, but has yet to face charges.
Another source of contention among legislators was a proposal that police acting in the line of duty should bear no criminal responsibility for killing or injuring a suspect.
This proposal had won strong support from the Ministry of Public Security, especially after the deaths of 100 police in the first half of this year, it said.
"Those opposed believe that this regulation could be used as an excuse in cases when casualties result from improper use of weapons," the Workers Daily said.
A bomb exploded outside a government office in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, and Chinese authorities on Sunday described the blast that shattered windows for 100 metres as "an appalling act of terrorism".
The Christmas Day bomb, the largest so far set off by anti-Chinese activists in the restive Himalayan region of Tibet, resulted in no casualties but caused widespread damage, local officials said by telephone from Lhasa.
"It was a huge explosion that could be heard a long way off," said a government official, who refused to be identified.
"This was the biggest bomb blast by counterrevolutionary elements in Lhasa," a party official said. "None of the terrorists has been arrested, but one thing is certain -- this was done by plotters of the Dalai (Lama) clique."
The bomb exploded on the doorstep of the Lhasa City Chengguan District Government Office in the early hours of December 25, ripping apart the gateway to the buildings that house the main city government offices, the government official said.
"Windows for at least 100 metres (yards) around suffered some degree of damage," he said. "But because the explosion was in the middle of the night, no one was wounded."
He declined to give further details.
"The bombing... was an organised, planned, and targeted counterrevolutionary bombing incident staged by the Dalai (Lama) clique," local radio said on Friday quoting a circular issued by the regional Communist Party committee and government.
It was "a serious counterrevolutionary political incident and an appalling act of terrorism", the circular said according to the radio report monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp and made available on Sunday.
The London-based Tibet Information Network (TIN) said five people were wounded, some seriously. They included two nightwatchmen at the office and shopkeepers living nearby.
A nearby branch of the Bank of China was also reported to have been damaged along with two hotels, TIN said.
"The act of terrorism staged by the Dalai (Lama) clique is opposed by the people of Lhasa City, as well as by people all over the world," the party broadcast said.
"It fully demonstrates that the Dalai clique has cast off its previously so-called peaceful disguise to openly oppose the people of Tibet and has reached a point when it puts up a last-ditch struggle," it said.
China regularly blames followers of Tibet's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama, for anti-Chinese unrest that erupts sporadically in the strategic mountainous region that straddles the Himalayas and runs along China's sensitive border with India.
The Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for this non-violent campaign to win autonomy for his homeland, says he wants self-government and freedom of worship in the deeply religious Buddhist region. He fled China in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Beijing rule.
Speaking at a meeting of party officials in Lhasa on Friday, the vice chairman of the autonomous regional government, Gyamco, called for a campaign of retaliation.
"We should wage a tit-for-tat struggle against the Dalai clique's sabotage," he said.
"We should, once again, stage another campaign across Tibet to thoroughly expose and criticise the Dalai clique, heighten our alertness and strengthen preventive measures so as to keep the situation stable," the radio quoted him as saying.
Several much smaller bombs have been been set off in Lhasa over the last two years, including one in 1995 that caused slight damage to a plaque donated by Beijing and another last March outside the headquarters of the Tibet regional government.
China's restive Tibet region appeared certain on Sunday to fall under the shadow of a renewed campaign of intimidation after a music student was jailed for 18 years for spying and a bomb rocked the capital.
"The bomb attack, especially such a big explosion, is a real slap in the face," said one Tibet observer who declined to be identified. "The authorities really don't know any other way but the knee-jerk crackdown response."
A senior local government leader signalled that a new round of intimidation in the deeply Buddhist Himalayan region was essential to tackle such challenges to Beijing's sovereignty.
"We should wage a tit-for-tat struggle against the Dalai (Lama) clique's sabotage," Gyamco, vice chairman of the regional government, was quoted by local radio as telling a Friday meeting of party government officials in Lhasa after the December 25 blast.
"We should, once again, stage another campaign across Tibet to thoroughly expose and criticise the Dalai clique, heighten our alertness and strengthen preventive measures so as to keep the situation stable," the radio quoted him as saying.
The explosion was certain to trigger further official rhetoric against the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled god-king, whom Beijing accuses of fomenting anti-Chinese unrest in the strategic mountainous region that borders India, analysts said.
The Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign to win autonomy for Tibet, says he wants self-government and freedom of worship in the region.
He fled China in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Beijing rule.
Police had set up new checkpoints on the road west from Lhasa, visited hotels to question Tibetan guests, particularly exiles from India, and begun house-to-house questioning of young Tibetan men, the London-based Tibet Information Network said.
Diplomats said the extraordinarily harsh prison sentence meted out to music scholar Ngawang Choephol underlined the determination of authorities in the region to stamp out even the smallest activity that lacked an official sanction.
Ngawang Choephel, 30, was jailed last Friday by a court in Tibet's second city, Xigaze, for 18 years for spying, in one of the harshest sentences ever meted out in the region.
The student, a former Fulbright scholar in the United States, disappeared into China's security limbo in August 1995 while travelling in Tibet to produce an amateur documentary film about traditional music and dance.
The young scholar confessed to having been sent to Tibet by "the Dalai (Lama) clique" on behalf of an unnamed foreign country to conduct espionage, local radio said in a thinly veiled reference to the United States.
Washington voiced concern at the sentence, and said it knew nothing of his activities other than making a documentary.
"It appears to mean the end of any sense that China is susceptible to the international community on human rights issues," Robbie Barnett of the Tibet Information Network said after hearing of the sentence.
"They now feel confident to use counterespionage laws against political offenders," he said late on Friday.
But with the largest bomb explosion yet reported in Tibet rocking Lhasa before dawn on December 25, a renewed crackdown on anti-Chinese unrest appeared inevitable.
One Tibetan government official reached by telephone in Lhasa on Sunday said he could not comment on the bomb blast because he was too busy conducting a rectification and discipline drive in Lhasa's temples and monasteries.
The bomb exploded outside the main city government office in Lhasa, shattering windows in a 100-metre (yard) radius and prompting officials to condemn the blast as "an appalling act of terrorism". They said no one was wounded in the explosion.
"The act of terrorism...fully demonstrates that the Dalai (Lama) clique has cast off its previously so-called peaceful disguise to openly oppose the people of Tibet and has reached a point when it puts up a last-ditch struggle," local radio said.
China on Sunday hailed a brief visit by Premier Li Peng to Russia as 43 hours packed with political and business achievements and trumpeted the growth of a power centre to offset the influence of the United States.
Diplomats said the rapid warming of ties between China and Russia was unlikely to signal a major strategic alliance or a return to the close political and military alliance that existed between Beijing and Moscow in the early 1950s.
China's effusive rhetoric to describe Li's Russia trip was meant as a gesture to the West that Beijing could turn to friends other than the United States, diplomats said.
It did not appear to signal a major new power axis between the former bitter rivals for leadership of the communist world, they said.
"The visit... was brief indeed. However, it scored fruitful achievements and had great significance," the People's Daily, mouthpiece of the Communist Party, said in a front-page editorial.
"It is bitingly cold in Moscow in late December, but Li and his entourage felt the warmth of the Russian leaders and people everywhere," the People's Daily purred.
The achievements of Li's 43-hour visit included an agreement for the prime ministers to meet twice a year to monitor progress on building trade and diplomatic relations and a decision that Chinese President Jiang Zemin visit Moscow in April for talks to set the seal on a new level of relations.
The two sides also signed several deals including the supply of Russian Sukhoi Su-27 warplanes and building a nuclear power plant in China's eastern Jiangsu province.
Officials gave no details of the fighter deal, but sources said it involved sale of a complete production line to be built in northeast China. The deal was held up by financing problems and complications from the break-up of the Soviet Union that left Su-27 engine manufacturing lines in Ukraine, they said.
However, the Chinese commentary focused on the political significance of the visit, and a joint communique on strategic cooperation into the 21st century, as important signs of the global importance of the Sino-Russian partnership.
"The world is moving towards multi-polarisation," the People's Daily said.
"Both Russia and China well deserve to be two important and independent poles in the multi-polar world. The establishment and development of strategic partnership between Russia and China is conducive to the multi-polarisation of the world," it said.
"Leaders of both countries made it clear that they do not favour a world dominated by one power," it said, in a scarcely veiled reference to the United States.
Russia's desire to develop close links with China has followed NATO's plans to expand eastwards by admitting Moscow's Cold War allies in Eastern Europe as members of the alliance.
Li, whose meeting with Boris Yeltsin was the Russian president's first with a foreign leader since returning to work after a heart bypass operation on November 5, stressed that China saw the partnership as long-term and not as expediency.
The strategic partnership was directed at no other parties, the People's Daily stressed.
"May Sino-Russian friendship be passed on from generation to generation," it said.
Moscow and Beijing, once bitter rivals for leadership of the communist world, have been building steadily warmer and closer ties since Soviet communism began to unravel a decade ago.
For Russia, democracy has been accompanied by poverty and Moscow sees China as a huge market for its struggling industry.
Rains ended abruptly throughout most of Ivory Coast in the second 10 days of December, allowing crops to dry after the extended rain, upcountry buyers and weather analysts say.
Weather data showed average rain down to 8mm from about 45 mm at the start of December, with little or no rain falling at six of eight stations monitored in the 10 days to December 20.
A total of 65 mm fell compared to 400 mm at nine stations in the first 10 days of the month. Only the northern Daloa area, with 21.8 mm, and the far southwest around Tabou, with 42.5 mm, received noticeable amounts.
Around 250 mm fell in San Pedro and Tabou alone in early December during a late, small rainy season usually seen in October and November.
"The inter-tropical weather front has still not brought down Harmattan (drier conditions usually seen in early December and on through January after rains)," said one weather analyst.
Farmers visited by Reuters over Christmas had begun drying beans but some exporters in Abidjan were rejecting moist beans, some of which had sat uncollected in villages before mud tracks solidified.
Heavy rains fell in early December, leading to deterioration of bushtracks and raising cocoa bean humidity levels to up to 11 percent, compared to exportable levels of about eight percent.
One crop analyst said before the latest figures that mid-crop (April-September) prospects would be boosted by another 20mm rain by January. Sporadic rains have fallen upcountry since December 20 but month-end rainfall figures were not immediately available.
Midcrop flowers are expected to give cherelles (small cocoa pods) as insect activity gets underway after rains end. Crop analysts will be looking for clear indications of prospects in early January.
Crop analysts see the rains as beneficial for pods still on trees as a preceding small dry season had also been late and wetting would cushion the effects of coming dry Harmattan winds.
The data, from Ivory Coast's national weather station, shows rainfall for the second 10 days of December in the following key growing areas -
Dalao 21.8mm, Gagnoa 0 mm, San Pedro 0.7 mm, Tabou 42.5 mm and Man 0 mm, Dimbokro 0 mm, Yamoussoukro 0 mm, Adiake 0 mm.
No data was available for Abidjan and Sassandra but sporadic rains have been seen by Reuters in south coast areas, including Abidjan, since Dec 20. --Abidjan Newsroom + 225 21 90 90
Ivorian 1996/97 cocoa arrivals stood at around 390,000-410,000 tonnes by mid-December, after a slow start to the month, analysts and exporters say.
Exporters blamed a combination of crop profile and demand factors for the dip in December -- usually the strongest month.
The figures to December 16 were down from an estimated 540,000 tonnes by that date last year, but some analysts said a further 50,000 tonnes should be added to this year's total for comparative purposes as the season had opened three weeks late.
An averaged figure plus the 50,000 tonnes would put arrivals since October 1 at 450,000. Various sources put arrivals at San Pedro since October 1 at 130,000-140,000 tonnes with the rest going to the main port of Abidjan.
"Arrivals were slower than usual for December but in the past week arrivals have overtaken last year's (weekly) rate," said one exporter. "People are completing December contracts but January will be strong," he added.
Subsequent arrivals up to December 22 were said by exporters to be around 50,000 tonnes per week. They expected the deficit in arrivals compared to last year to grow in December before narrowing sharply in January, when arrivals pick up again.
Difficulty in obtaining export contracts from the Caistab marketing board and problems with bean drying after rains upcountry had accentuated the usual Christmas period drop-off.
Rains had damaged bushtracks, delaying collection and raising humidity and moisture to above acceptable levels in some areas.
"We are refusing some cocoa. There is a lot more coming down now the sun is out," said one Abidjan-based exporter.
Drying problems and poor fermentation had raised bean humidity to 11 percent in some areas, extending both normal and machine drying times.
"Humidity levels are slipping back down from anything up to 11 percent," said one San Pedro-based buyer, and the guideline farmgate price of 315 CFA per kilo had on the whole been paid to growers.
Upcountry buyers visited by Reuters over Christmas had taken the chance to dry out large quantities of fresh through to greyish moist beans as a wet early December gave way to usual dry sunny weather ahead of the holiday.
"It's patchy, but sunny days are here again," said one buyer. "Whatever was cut off in village stores or too wet can now be properly dried out," he added.
San Pedro received over 15,000 in the week from December 16, exporters there said.
Reports of smuggling to Guinea continue to surface but one Western diplomat recently returning by road from Conakry said road conditions were appalling and few covered trucks had been seen.
Large shipments in the past weeks are expected to cut into port stocks.
"Port area stocks are unclear but there are a lot of bulk shipments," said one exporter.
-- Abidjan Newsroom +225 21 90 90
China has launched a manhunt across the restive region of Tibet, tightened airport security and offered a reward of $120,000 for the arrest of culprits who exploded a bomb in Lhasa last week, officials said on Monday.
The government had announced a reward of one million yuan ($120,000) for information leading to the arrest of those responsible for the bomb blast early on Christmas Day outside city government offices in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, a senior official said.
"No one has yet been arrested and we are now mobilising and deploying our forces," Lhasa Vice Mayor Ou Yangxiang said in a telephone interview.
Notice of the reward had been published in the Lhasa Evening News on December 27 and it was being issued in other newspapers in the strategic Himalayan region, government officials said.
The Christmas Day bomb, the largest so far set off by anti-Chinese activists in restive Tibet, had resulted in no casualties but caused widespread damage, shattering windows within a radius of 100 metres (yards), officials said.
"Almost the whole of Lhasa heard it," said one Lhasa government official. "It was a muffled sound, like -- whoong."
Officials insisted there was little doubt that the blast was politically motivated and carried out by followers of the region's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama.
The bomb exploded at night outside a government building and was therefore clearly political, said Zhou Kaifu, deputy director of the Tibet Public Security Bureau.
"This was done by the Dalai separatist camp," the government official said, adding that the attack bore the hallmarks of previous similar "terrorist acts". He declined to give details although several smaller bombings have been reported in Lhasa.
"This is a terrorist act, aimed at destroying peace in our area," he said. "This was a brazen act."
Police had set up a special task force to search for the culprits and customs and immigration officials had stepped up security searches at Tibet's airport, he said.
The senior police official said the bomb was a home-made device made mainly from ammonium nitrate, a fertiliser.
"We are targeting Tibetan exiles returning from abroad and who have political connections," he said when asked about the focus of the manhunt.
"The bomb was made at a farm," he said. "We are searching mainly in Lhasa, but are cooperating with other areas."
China regularly blames followers of Tibet's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama, for anti-Chinese unrest that erupts sporadically in the strategic Himalayan region that borders India.
The Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign to win autonomy for his homeland, says he wants self-government and freedom of worship in the deeply religious Buddhist region. He fled China in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Beijing rule.
Monks in the devout Buddhist region who have spearheaded anti-Chinese demonstrations and riots in the past were not regarded as suspects, the police official said.
Officials have vowed to retaliate, signalling a possible renewed crackdown on anti-Chinese unrest in the region.
"We should wage a tit-for-tat struggle against the Dalai clique's sabotage," local radio quoted Gyamco, vice chairman of the regional government as saying last week.
Several much smaller bombs have been been set off in Lhasa in the last two years, including one in 1995 that caused slight damage to a plaque donated by Beijing and another last March outside the headquarters of the Tibet regional government.
China's usually rubber stamp parliament failed on Monday to pass an anti-corruption bill after the proposed law fell victim to fierce debate over whether it should specifically target government officials.
State media had reported heated discussion at the week-long session of the standing committee of the National People's Congress, or parliament, that closed on Monday.
Disputes among China's usually tame lawmakers ranged from controversy surrounding the scope of the death penalty as contained in proposed amendments of the criminal law to whether corrupt state managers should be executed.
The draft law on administrative supervision, which would target corruption and had been due to be adopted this week, was eventually withdrawn from voting, the Xinhua news agency said.
The law was withdrawn "because legislators sharply disagreed with the name of the law", it said, quoting parliament chairman Qiao Shi.
Some lawmakers believed the bill should be named the Law On Administrative Supervision in line with its regulation of the government.
However, they ran into opposition on constitutional grounds from legislators who argued it should be called simply the Law on Supervision, without reference to the administration, Xinhua said, but did not elaborate.
Qiao suggested the issue be put forward for a vote at the next standing committee session in February, 1997.
Beijing has launched repeated crackdowns on graft, which senior leaders have called a cancer that threatens the Communist Party's grip on power, but many Chinese say enforcement of anti-corruption measures at senior levels is patchy at best.
Debate had swirled around amendments to combat corruption, including more than 60 clauses that would specifically define draft and dereliction of duty, while increasing to 32 from seven the types of officials subject to the law, state media said.
One source of contention was the designation of managers of state firms as government employees, who are subject to a maximum penalty of death for corruption, it said.
One body of opinion held that government factory managers be defined as public servants since 75 percent of all official cases of corruption involved state enterprise managers.
Others argued this was unfair since managers of non-state firms faced a maximum of only 15 years in jail for graft.
All should be equal before the law, the newspaper quoted the criminal law as saying regarding the need to tackle corruption
The failure of the anti-corruption law to pass came as senior leaders considered whether to punish scandal-hit former Beijing Party boss Chen Xitong -- the highest-ranking victim of China's anti-corruption campaign -- for dereliction of duty.
Under the law, prosecutors would have the powers to investigate a suspect's bank account and ask the courts to freeze bank accounts of those suspected of graft, bribery and embezzlement.
In the first 11 months of 1996, Chinese prosecutors had begun action in 77,611 cases of corruption, bribery and economic crime and had dealt with 33,879 cases, up year-on-year 9.4 percent, the media said.
Corruption was virtually wiped out in the years after the communists took over in 1949 but has staged a comeback after economic reforms were introduced 17 years ago.
China on Monday named the first four foreign banks, based in Shanghai, to be allowed to conduct business in the local Chinese currency, ending months of speculation.
The four banks are the Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp, Citibank, Tokyo-Mitsubishi Bank and the Industrial Bank of Japan.
A spokesman for the Shanghai branch of the People's Bank of China, the central bank, said the foreign banks would be allowed to do Chinese currency loans, deposits and some other business.
"The scope of the business was defined in the rules issued recently," he said but declined to give further details.
A report from the official Xinhua news agency two weeks ago said the chosen foreign banks would not be allowed to have oustanding local currency loans exceeding 35 percent of their foreign currency loans.
All foreign banks in China are currently restricted to do business in foreign currency and have been eager to gain a share of the huge local market for Chinese yuan deposits and loans.
Foreign banks doing China yuan business would have to adopt the regulations that applied to Chinese financial institutions, Xinhua said.
It did not elaborate, but that appeared to mean foreign banks would have to accept the same tax rate used for Chinese banks -- one of the key obstacles to implementing the policy change.
Foreign bank profits are currently taxed at a 15 percent rate while Chinese commercial banks are taxed at 33 percent and the main state banks at 55 percent.
A foreign banker working with one of the chosen banks said formal confirmation had been received today.
"But there were no details at all, no conditions of business given," he said.
A foreign banker with one of the other banks said he had not yet received formal notification.
"There has been no news," he said. "But even after we hear, it will still be at least a month or two before business would start. My impression is it will take quite a while. There are many things to sort out."
The tax rate issue remains unclear and is still the main obstacle to foreign banks starting up local currency business, he said.
The China manager of Credit Lyonnais, Jacques Bertholier, said he hoped his bank would be included within the second batch of banks to be granted approval to do yuan business, hopefully within a couple of months.
"It is not perfectly clear what the terms of business are, but there appears to be a good scope for activity," he said.
Haworth Inc. said Monday it received a $211.5 million payment for a patent infringement award against Steelcase Inc., ending a 17-year battle between the two Michigan office furniture giants over electrified office panels.
Of the total $211.5 million, Steelcase, the largest office furniture maker in the world, paid Haworth $96.8 million in damages and interest worth $114.7 million.
"While we don't agree with this ruling, we respect that the courts have the final word and it's time to move on," Steelcase President James Hackett said in a statement.
The two companies began warring over the issue in 1979. Haworth sued Steelcase in November 1985, alleging Steelcase infringed on its patents for pre-wired modular panel systems, which are used to build office cubicles.
Developed during the early 1970s, the technology provides a safe way for electricity to be routed through office panels, eliminating the need for extension cords and helping satisfy the growing demand for electronic office equipment, Haworth said.
The decision and damage award, which are binding and cannot be appealed, were entered Dec. 23 by a special judge appointed to determine damages in U.S. District Court in Kalamazoo, Mich.
In related rulings, the court denied Steelcase's allegations in a 1989 suit that Haworth infringed on two patents for prewired panels. It also upheld Haworth's position on a lawsuit it filed relating to computer keyboard shelves.
Steelcase won the first round of the original 1985 lawsuit when a federal court found Steelcase did not infringe Haworth's patent. Haworth appealed that decision and the U.S. Court of Appeals reversed the lower court ruling in 1989.
The case then went to a second trial that was an alternative dispute resolution before the special judge in Washington. That trial determined damages and resolved Steelcase's 1989 patent lawsuit against Haworth.
In a news release, Haworth said the award provides vindication for its role in developing the first safe method of routing electricity through movable office panels.
"But no monetary award can make things right," said President Jerry Johanneson. "No montary award can erase the gains our competitors made when they infringed our patents and used the technology that was rightfully ours."
In addition to Steelcase, eight other companies have paid more than $75 million to settle patent infringement cases brought by Haworth, it said.
Based in Grand Rapids, Mich., with a total of 19,000 workers worldwide, Steelcase had total revenues of $2.6 billion for its 1996 fiscal year, which ended in February.
Haworth, based in Holland, Mich., with more than 9,000 employees around the world, had 1995 sales of about $1.2 billion.
Hong Kong's future leader Tung Chee-hwa said on Monday the Beijing-approved body set up to replace the existing elected legislature in mid-1997 would soon hold its first sitting -- not in Hong Kong, but in China.
Tung was speaking after his first informal meeting with the post-colonial deputies who will take up lawmaking in Hong Kong after Britain hands back the territory at midnight next June 30.
The new chamber will soon hold its first official session most likely across the border in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, Tung told reporters.
"The provisional legislature must meet for the first time. It'll probably be in Shenzhen. It would be very soon," he said.
"We also discussed very unofficially the tasks ahead for the provisional legislature," Tung said.
The 60-member chamber was selected this month by a 400-strong selection committee comprised of Hong Kong people vetted by China.
The same panel earlier chose Tung to run the territory after colonial Governor Chris Patten departs in 183 days' time.
The provisional legislature is stiffly opposed by Hong Kong's Democratic Party, which emerged from 1995 elections for the present Legislative Council with the most votes of any party but will lose its seats next July 1.
The party calls the provisional body a travesty of democracy that will be illegal if it functions before the change of flag. Their threats of legal action have forced the body to meet in China.
The colonial government has agreed to cooperate with Tung on issues regarding the transfer of sovereignty but not with the provisional legislature.
On Monday Tung who has promised to respect the neutrality of Hong Kong's 180,000 civil servants, urged them to face the reality of the provisional legislature.
"The political neutrality of the civil service is very important, we must respect that. But after 1997, the provisional legislature will work with the civil service. That's a reality."
Many in Hong Kong are worried that stable government and the rule of law will evaporate when communist-ruled China takes back the capitalist territory of 6.3 million people.
On Saturday Tung persuaded Hong Kong's top civil servant, Chief Secretary Anson Chan, to stay in her post after the handover. But he has yet to decide the fate of other top officials.
In one of the first signs of cracks in the top echelon of officials, chief graft-buster Michael Leung, head of the Independent Commission Against Corruption, last week announced he would not serve beyond the handover.
Tung, who met Leung on Monday, said he failed to persuade Leung to change his mind. "It is a real pity. I wish he would stay...but he explained that it was for personal reasons he was leaving," he said.
The largest bomb blast reported in Tibet marks a new desperation in anti-Chinese sentiment in the restive region and offers a longed-for opportunity to officials to launch a new crackdown, analysts said on Monday.
"I think what we are seeing here is people who tend to say that the path of non-violence is not working and they will now use violence," Robbie Barnett of the London-based Tibet Information Network said in a telephone interview.
The Himalayan region that is peopled mainly by deeply devout Buddhists has been rocked in recent years by sporadic, sometimes violent, anti-Chinese unrest, with monks and nuns often at the forefront of demonstrations for independence.
The home-made ammonium nitrate blast early on Christmas Day outside a city government office in Lhasa shattered windows in a radius of 100 metres (yards) and was the largest such explosion reported in the region. No casualties were reported.
Barnett described the attack as an act of desperation.
"These people are Buddhists," Barnett said. "But they are Buddhists who do not see anything being achieved by what the Dalai Lama is doing and they are very worried about it."
Officials said there was little doubt that the Christmas Day blast in Lhasa was politically motivated and carried out by followers of the region's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama.
"There have been increasing hints that some groups could turn to violence if China did not relax its repression in Tibet," Barnett said. "But this movement seems to have attracted only a very few."
The Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign to win autonomy for his homeland, says he wants self-government and freedom of worship in Tibet.
He fled China in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Beijing rule and has since lived in India with many followers.
As part of his peaceful campaign, the Dalai has proposed talks with Beijing, suggesting China shoulder defence and foreign policy but allow Tibetans self-rule in internal matters such as religion. His spokesmen say China has not responded.
Beijing has said it cannot negotiate unless the Dalai Lama recognises Chinese sovereignty.
Analysts said the latest bombing had played into the hands of local authorities eager for evidence that would demonstrate to Beijing the need for a stricter crackdown in Tibet.
"This is just the kind of thing the authorities in Tibet have been hoping for," Barnett said.
"They have been exaggerating hugely the extent of unrest to justify the need for a crackdown," he said, referring to a string of Tibet newspaper articles warning against anti-Chinese forces. "This can only help them."
Officials interviewed recently in Tibet played down the extent of anti-Chinese feeling in the region, saying those opposed to Beijing were a tiny minority. Witnesses saw little sign of tight security in the capital, Lhasa.
However, a senior police official in Lhasa hinted on Monday that a stable security situation in Tibet and its temples was a result of careful planning. "The order in monasteries is good because we have recently regulated them," he said.
An ideological campaign in Tibet, as elsewhere in China, to promote socialist ethics and allegiance to the Communist Party could have ignited the new violence in a region where many ordinary Tibetans pledge their first loyalty to religion, Barnett said.
China warned on Monday against reinforcing military alliances, saying Cold War ideology lived on.
In an apparent dig at the United States, it also hailed what it called a trend towards a multi-polar political and economic world order.
"The practice of reinforcing military alliances runs counter to the current tide of peace and development, and will have to arouse great concern among the people," Vice-Premier Qian Qichen was quoted by the official Xinhua news agency as saying.
"The Cold War has ended but confrontational 'Cold War thinking' still exists," said Qian, who is also foreign minister.
Qian did not name specific targets for Beijing's ire but the remarks closely followed a visit by Premier Li Peng to Russia, a trip that prompted China's official news media to trumpet the rise of a power centre to balance the United States.
Chinese political analysts have noted they shared Russian concerns over the planned expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to admit Moscow's former Cold War allies in eastern Europe.
China has also vented its anger at closer U.S. military ties with Japan stemming from an agreement this year that enhanced security ties between the two countries.
Beijing has tried to strengthen its own links with the United States and other Western countries, but it is keen to see some check on Washington's power, diplomats said.
Qian said a key trend of the past year was the movement towards economic and political "multi-polarisation".
Relations between the world's big powers were undergoing major readjustments, marked by mutual reliance and restraint, which have brought about a complicated and changeable situation, he said.
This was underscored by widespread opposition to the Helms-Burton and D'Amato legislation put into effect by the United States with the aim of tightening economic sanctions against Cuba and Iran, he said.
The two laws had been strongly condemned and extensively boycotted, Qian said.
China sees these laws as U.S. interference in the affairs of other states, a sensitive subject for a country that has come under sharp criticism for its human right policies at home.
Qian said that over the last year, Beijing had moved to counter practices that interfered in its internal affairs, safeguarding the state's sovereignty, territorial integrity and national dignity.
Beijing was willing to work with the United States to improve ties, adding that relations had stabilised after a "period of turbulence" earlier this year.
Sino-U.S. relations were badly strained by Beijing's war games and missile tests near Taiwan in March.
Relations between Washington and Beijing were also marred by tensions over trade, human rights and arms proliferation although a series of meetings between senior officials helped to ease strains in recent months.
China has launched a manhunt across the restive region of Tibet, tightened airport security and offered a reward of $120,000 for the arrest of culprits who exploded a bomb in Lhasa last week, officials said on Monday.
The government had announced a reward of one million yuan ($120,000) for information leading to the arrest of those responsible for the bomb that exploded in the early hours of Christmas Day outside city government offices in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, a senior official said.
"No one has yet been arrested and we are now mobilising and deploying our forces," Lhasa Vice Mayor Ou Yangxiang said in a telephone interview.
Notice of the reward had been published in the Lhasa Evening News on December 27 and it was being issued in other newspapers in the strategic Himalayan region, government officials said.
The Christmas Day bomb, the largest so far set off by anti-Chinese activists in restive Tibet, had resulted in no casualties but caused widespread damage, shattering windows for a radius of 100 metres (yards), officials said.
"Almost the whole of Lhasa heard it," said one Lhasa government official. "It was a muffled sound, like -- whoong."
Officials insisted there was little doubt that the blast was politically motivated and carried out by followers of the region's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama.
"This was done by the Dalai separatist camp," the government official said, adding that the attack bore the hallmarks of previous similar "terrorist acts". He declined to give details although several smaller bombings have been reported in Lhasa.
"This is a terrorist act, aimed at destroying peace in our area," he said. "This was a brazen act."
Police had set up a special task force to search for the culprits and customs and immigration officials had stepped up security searches at Tibet's airport, he said.
A senior Tibet police official said the bomb was a home-made device made from ammonium nitrate, a fertiliser.
"We are targeting Tibetan exiles returning from abroad and who have political connections," he said when asked about the focus of the manhunt.
China regularly blames followers of Tibet's exiled god-king, the Dalai Lama, for anti-Chinese unrest that erupts sporadically in the strategic mountainous region that straddles the Himalayas and runs along China's sensitive border with India.
The Dalai Lama, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his non-violent campaign to win autonomy for his homeland, says he wants self-government and freedom of worship in the deeply religious Buddhist region. He fled China in 1959 after an abortive uprising against Beijing rule.
Monks in the deeply devout Buddhist region who have spearheaded anti-Chinese demonstrations and riots in the past were not regarded as suspects, the police official said.
Officials have vowed to retaliate, signalling a possible renewed crackdown on anti-Chinese unrest in the region.
"We should wage a tit-for-tat struggle against the Dalai clique's sabotage," local radio quoted Gyamco, vice chairman of the regional government as saying last week.
"We should, once again, stage another campaign across Tibet to thoroughly expose and criticise the Dalai clique, heighten our alertness and strengthen preventive measures so as to keep the situation stable," the radio quoted him as saying.
Several much smaller bombs have been been set off in Lhasa over the last two years, including one in 1995 that caused slight damage to a plaque donated by Beijing and another last March outside the headquarters of the Tibet regional government.
Czech fund manager Harvard Capital &amp; Consulting (HC&amp;C) said on Tuesday it paid a one million crown ($36,500) fine for illegal trading practices from 1993 to 1995, and was making amends.
In a statement HC&amp;C said that Viktor Kozeny, the young Czech-born entreprenuer who founded HC&amp;C, which is not connected to the U.S. college where he once studied, confirmed from his home in the Bahamas that the fine was paid in June.
"The discovered deficiencies from 1993 to 1995 have mostly been removed. We are working on correcting the others," HC&amp;C vice-president Boris Vostry said in the statement obtained from Harvard's Prague public relations agency.
The Finance Ministry on Monday said it had levied the maximum fine allowed by Czech law on HC&amp;C, which became one of the most visible symbols of renascent Czech capitalism during the country's privatisation wave of the early 1990s.
The firm was cited for several violations of the law on investment companies and funds and forced it to pay additional compensation, the ministry said, but did not elaborate.
Marie Jezkova, the head of the ministry's department of fund supervision, told Reuters that Harvard was cited primarily for the manipulation of assets of its publicly-held closed-end Harvard Guarantee &amp; Multiple Fund.
She said that the violations included "dealing with the assets of the fund with unprofessional care".
Jezkova said that Harvard conducted trades which "did not indicate that they were done with the aim to increase the value of the assets of the fund".
Vostry said one of the reasons for the fine was the frequent encroachment of the maximum limits for the purchase of shares in individual companies.
At the time, funds were limited to holding a maximum 20 percent stake in any one company.
Vostry did not list other infractions.
Jezkova was reacting to repeated inquiries concerning a story published last week in the U.S. magazine Fortune.
The magazine quoted a still unpublished ministry decision which it said was handed down in July, which required Harvard to pay a one million crown penalty and $6.8 million in compensation to its funds for various activities.
Jezkova declined comment on the total amount of compensation Harvard was required to pay, but she said that the ministry did impose the maximum fine allowable by law, and that Harvard did have to pay additional compensation.
She also declined to discuss any details of the decision, and said it was up others at the ministry to publish such information.
It is not clear why the decision had been kept secret.
Key ministry personnel have been unavailable during the holiday season.
The infractions described by Fortune concern Harvard's management of funds which were set up during the massive Czech voucher privatisation programme, which gave share vouchers to citizens for a nominal fee.
Kozeny, like many banks and private entrepreneurs, set up funds based on shares gained from citizens who transferred their vouchers to the funds. The citizens received shares in the funds for the vouchers.
($ = 27.34 Czech Crowns)
Colombia's military and leftist rebels are oiling their guns for 1997, a year both sides predict will see Latin America's longest-running guerrilla war finally reach boiling point.
Military experts and human rights activists warn that the simmering conflict is ready to explode as the government and the insurgents harden their positions and resort to increasingly violent strikes against each other.
"1997 will be a year of greater struggles to achieve a more dignified motherland for all," the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the country's largest guerrilla force, said in a communique obtained by Reuters on Monday.
"We call on all those at odds with this terrorist, despotic regime to hoist high the flags of social justice and the struggle for our rights."
That struggle, blamed for many of Colombia's 25,000 murders in 1996, put more than half the country under emergency rule after the government granted special powers to combat leftist subversion midway through the year.
But the FARC and Colombia's second-largest rebel force, the National Liberation Army (ELN), have demonstrated increasing ease in destroying key infrastructure and launching devastating attacks on military strongholds.
"Preparations are under way for a longer, harder war on all sides. The guerrillas have shown their intention to step up the armed confrontation. The military line seems to be triumphing in the government. There's no desire for peace," said human rights attorney Carlos Rodriguez, member of the Colombian Commission of Jurists.
The guerrillas' growing strength was highlighted by the FARC's Aug. 30 raid on a jungle base at Las Delicias in southern Putumayo province. The guerrilla force killed 27 soldiers and is still holding 60 others prisoner -- one of the most humiliating blows dealt against the army in more than three decades of armed uprising, according to military analysts.
In an effort to regain the upper hand, the government has announced it will spend more than $900 million on defence in 1997, including the purchase of scores of Russian and U.S.-made combat helicopters -- equivalent to its total military expenditure for the last four years.
The military currently estimates the combined force of the FARC, set up as a pro-Soviet guerrilla force in 1964, and the ELN, a pro-Cuban force created by radical Roman Catholic priests in the mid-1960s, at no more than 12,000 fighters. The much smaller Maoist People's Liberation Army (EPL) was virtually decimated by a wave of desertions in the latter half of the year.
But political analyst Antonio Caballero, columnist with the influential weekly political magazine Semana, calculates the rebels' true strength at between 18,000 and 30,000.
The guerrilla forces, he says, have been able to buy ever more sophisticated weapons with money from extortion and their alleged links with the drug trade.
Meanwhile, the army's inefficiency and the crisis sparked by accusations that President Ernesto Samper financed his 1994 election campaign with drug money created a power vacuum that the rebels have stepped in to fill, Caballero said.
One Western defence attache believes at least 40 percent of Colombia is now under the de facto political and economic control of the guerrillas. He argued the conflict was not just a military problem.
"The seedbed of revolution is caused by the great social injustice which prevails. More military equipment will be of no use if there's not better coordination in the armed forces," he said.
Chinese President Jiang Zemin, in a new overture to rival Taiwan, on Tuesday called on Taiwanese from all walks of life to offer their views and suggestions on ways to reunify the mainland and the island.
"We welcome Taiwanese people of all circles to raise beneficial ideas and suggestions on peaceful reunification," Jiang said in a New Year's address broadcast on state television.
Jiang's proposal was seen by some Chinese analysts as a possible step away from paramount leader Deng Xiaoping's formula of "one country, two systems", long rejected by Taiwan's leadership.
Under the formula the two sides would reunify, with Taiwan enjoying autonomy and maintaining its own army.
"Jiang is trying to be flexible and open-minded on the Taiwan issue," said one China watcher who declined to be identified.
Jiang is eager to secure a place in modern China's history alongside Mao Zedong, who established the People's Republic, and Deng, who cemented the return of the British colony of Hong Kong to Chinese rule.
"This is the carrot following the stick that China wielded this year," the analyst said.
Ties plunged last March when Beijing conducted war games and missile tests in waters close to Taiwan in the run-up to the island's first direct presidential elections.
Jiang, who doubles as the Communist Party chief, told Taiwan's leadership to work to repair strained ties and said reunification was the common wish of all Chinese people.
Achieving reunification at the earliest possible date was in the interests of mainlanders and residents of Taiwan, he said.
"The Taiwanese authorities would be well advised to put the interests of the nation first and to stop all activities of splitting the motherland," Jiang added.
Beijing has viewed Taiwan as a rebel province since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949 and suspects the island is covertly seeking independence. Taipei says it wants reunification, but on different terms.
Jiang said China would continue to push for direct transport and trade links with Taiwan, which have been banned for almost five decades.
China warned Taiwan earlier on Tuesday that its tight controls on trade with the mainland were harming economic ties but said links could be helped by the return of Hong Kong to Beijing's rule next year.
"If the Taiwan authorities continue to pursue a policy of tight controls, circumstances will not be good for trade contacts," the official Xinhua news agency said.
This was "something that we do not want to see", the agency quoted Wang Hui, an official of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, as saying.
But Wang said he believed the return of Hong Kong to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997, and the possible entry of Beijing into the World Trade Organisation (WTO) would "provide good opportunities for developing economic and trade exchanges" between China and Taiwan.
Indirect trade between Taiwan and China was worth $17.76 billion in the first 10 months of 1996, up 2.6 percent compared with the same period of last year, the island's Board of Foreign Trade said at the weekend.
The television industry's controversial system for rating programs is set to begin airing Wednesday on the big networks ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox.
Broadcast and cable networks will carry the ratings, though start dates will vary. Time Warner Inc.'s upstart WB network began rating shows on Dec. 22. Cable network Black Entertainment Television does not plan to use the ratings.
Following are questions and answers about the system, unveiled by TV and Hollywood executives on Dec. 19.
Question: What are the ratings?
Answer: There are six categories, with two for children's shows. Like the 28-year-old motion-picture industry ratings, the TV ratings are meant to show a program's suitability for kids of different age groups. In general, they are:
TV-Y  -- Children of all ages.
TV-Y7 -- Children seven and older.
TV-G  -- Suitable for all ages.
TV-PG -- Parental guidance suggested.
TV-14 -- Parents of children under 14 strongly cautioned.
TV-M  -- Mature audiences only.
Q: How about some examples?
A: Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s CBS issued these ratings: "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles," TV-Y7; the Rose Bowl parade, TV-G; "Touched by an Angel," TV-PG; and "Chicago Hope," TV-14.
Walt Disney Co.'s ABC offered the following: "Bugs Bunny and Tweety Show," TV-Y; "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch," TV-G; "Lois and Clark," TV-PG; and "NYPD Blue," TV-14.
General Electric Co.'s NBC will broadcast the Holocaust movie "Schindler's List" in February with a TV-M rating. And News Corp.'s Fox said the year's first episodes of "Melrose Place" and the "X-Files" will be rated TV-14.
Q: What are prime-time shows likely to receive?
A: Networks expect most will carry a middle-of-the-road TV-PG. But a show's rating can vary from episode to episode.
Q: Where will the ratings appear?
A: They will be displayed briefly as a small icon in the upper-left corner of the TV screen at the start of a show. Newspapers, TV Guide and cable publications and on-screen listing services are expected to publish the guidelines.
Q: Are all shows affected?
A: No. News and sports programs are exempted. All other programs, including cartoons and talk shows, will be rated. Each local TV station will have the final say over whether a show is rated and what rating it will receive.
Q: Who will rate the programs?
A: Networks and producers will rate their own shows, unlike the movie industry, where an independent panel made up of parents rates films. TV executives contend they have far more programs to rate, with up to 2,000 hours a day of shows.
Q: What's been the public's reaction?
A: Mixed. The ratings have drawn flak from some lawmakers, parent groups, children's advocates, educators and others. These groups say the new system does not go far enough.
They favor a system that also would specify violence, sex and foul language, using letters such as V, S and L. An example: V-PG for a program in which parental guidance is suggested because of violent scenes.
Q: What do the critics plan to do?
A: They will ask the Federal Communications Commission to reject the industry's plan. And they want the industry to test the two approaches side by side in the home.
Q: What's the industry's response?
A: It will not participate in such a test. Executives also argue their system "mingles" age and content. For example, the system notes a TV-14 show may contain "sophisticated themes, sexual content, strong language and more intense violence."
Q: What is the origin of the ratings?
A: They stem from the communications law enacted in February that requires new TV sets to include a "V-chip." The technology, expected to be available in a year or so, will be used with the ratings to allow parents to block certain shows.
Q: What is the FCC's role?
A: The FCC must set up an advisory panel to devise a new system if the agency considers the industry plan unacceptable.
Q: Would the industry use such an alternative?
A: No. It has vowed to fight any government-imposed plan in court on First Amendment grounds.
China's central bank chief has said that inflation would be a modest seven percent this year and this showed the state's economic policies were working.
But Dai Xianglong, governor of the People's Bank of China, lashed out at companies that had taken advantage of tight money policies used to tackle inflation by lending money at excessively high rates.
"The appropriately tight monetary polices have achieved clear results which have been acknowledged both in China and abroad," Dai was quoted as saying in the Financial News on Monday.
"We can now control inflation to about seven percent for the full year," he said.
China's retail inflation stood at 6.9 percent year-on-year in the first seven months and at 5.9 percent in July alone.
Beijing has said it wanted to keep inflation within 10 percent for 1996, down from 14.8 percent last year and a communist-era high of 21.7 percent in 1994.
But the central bank chief had harsh words for companies that had taken advantage of the tough austerity programme put in place three years ago to deal with the worst days of inflation.
He did not name any of the offenders but he said that some "monopoly groups" and publicly listed companies were lending out money at excessively high rates.
Tsingtao Brewery, which has stock listed in Hong Kong as well as in Shanghai, has run afoul of regulatory authorities in the British colony in the past for lending out funds raised from its public offer.
A senior Chinese economist who asked not to be named said several big ministries were cash-rich and able to earn more than bank deposit rates by lending out their funds.
"The big offenders are some cash-rich ministries," said the economist. "They can earn 16-18 percent on their money."
That would compare with interest of 7.47 percent earned on one-year bank deposits.
Other economists have said that higher rates were available for even more speculative lending.
Dai gave no indication of whether any measures were being planned to address these problems, although he said that funds in the banking system were unevenly distributed.
He said that China had already taken steps to curb illegal money market trade and that it had taken steps to ensure that other unauthorised financial organisations did not act as commercial banks.
"There are many violations of financial regulations," Dai was quoted as saying. "There must be an expansion of supervision over the financial sector."
China ushered in 1997, a year it has hailed as one of the most significant of the communist era for the impending recovery of Hong Kong, with a paean to senior leader Deng Xiaoping, the man who made it all possible.
China Central Television broadcast on Wednesday the first episode of a documentary lauding the 92-year-old political patriarch, a man whose pragmatic policies turned a backward Stalinist state into an economic powerhouse and helped regain capitalist Hong Kong from Britain.
